 
HD Interest Rate  Hike Fails to Discourage Savannah, Ga., Retailers    BY Dave DeWitte    WC546 words   PD17 November 1999   SNKRTBN Knight-Ridder Tribune Business News: Savannah Morning News - Georgia   SCKRTBN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright (C) 1999 KRTBN Knight Ridder Tribune Business News; Source: World Reporter (TM)
   LP The question seems to draw a shrug from Savannah retailers. 

 They seemed anything but worried about the impact of Tuesday's quarter-point interest rate hike on their Christmas sales projections, saying that two similar hikes from the Federal Reserve earlier this year failed to dampen consumer enthusiasm. 
   TD "People are working and the salaries are a little better," said Aaron Levy, whose Levy's Jewelers is celebrating its 100th Christmas in Savannah. "We did order considerably more merchandise than normal this year." 

 At Savannah Harley-Davidson, manager and co-owner Rick Buckley says his average customer is old enough to consider that the new interest rate is still low historically. 

 "I don't think (Tuesday's) vote will mean very much," Buckley said. "Right now, we still have pretty good rates." 

 And at Bob Maddox Chrysler-Plymouth, finance manager Jim Romeo wasn't worried as some auto lenders already began raising their rates on new loans Tuesday afternoon. 

 "I don't know if this particular quarter-point bump will affect sales as much as the last quarter-point or the quarter-point before that," Romeo said. 

 Retailers say the stock market -- not interest rates -- will have the biggest impact on consumer confidence as the annual Thanksgiving start of Christmas shopping approaches. Stock indexes surged after Tuesday's announcement, apparently because of the modest size of the increase and because the Fed signaled that it was not inclined to raise interest rates again in the near future. 

 "If this last increase in the prime triggered a big selloff in the stock market, that might hurt," Buckley said. "If people perceived that their net value is less, they might think twice about a $20,000 motorcycle." 

 That view is shared by Chris Worel, city president for First Union Bank. Worel was a little surprised by the Fed action, citing earlier hints by Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan that he would favor holding off because of jitters caused by the year 2000 computer programming problem. Barring any stock market reversal, however, Worel expects little economic fallout in Savannah from the decision. 

 "Savannah's economy is much more diverse than a lot of other markets," Worel said. 

 The opening of the new Westin Savannah Harbor Resort and the international trade center in the coming months will help stimulate the already-strong local economy, he said. 

 WHAT HAPPENED: Tuesday, the Fed increased its target for the federal funds rate, which banks charge each other on overnight loans, from 5.25 percent to 5.5 percent. 

 What it means for consumers: Commercial banks were expected to boost their prime lending rate, the rate they charge their best customers, from the current 8.25 percent to 8.5 percent. 

 The Fed: The Federal Reserve is the central bank for the United States of America. It creates national credit and monetary policy. It also regulates money supply and maintains the soundness of the banking industry. 

 EASY COME, EASY GO 

 Fed rate actions over the past two years balanced out 

 1998 

 Sept. 29, -0.25 percent 

 Oct. 15 -0.25 percent 

 Nov. 17, -0.25 percent 

 1999 

 June 30, +0.25 percent 

 Aug. 24, +0.25 percent 

 Nov. 16, +0.25 percent 
   INi814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPC52111 | 6011   IPDEconomic News | Interest Rates | Economic Indicators | United States of America, Americas~US | Americas | North America | Pacific Rim | Federal_Reserve_USA | Federal Reserve Banks | Monetary Authorities - Central Bank   ANDocument krtbn00020010828dvbh024dc  

HD Federal Reserve Interest-Rate  Boost Likely Last One for 1999    BY Robert Dodge    WC967 words   PD17 November 1999   SNKRTBN Knight-Ridder Tribune Business News: The Dallas Morning News - Texas   SCKRTBN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright (C) 1999 KRTBN Knight Ridder Tribune Business News; Source: World Reporter (TM)
   LP WASHINGTON--Interest rates are expected to remain stable until at least early next year, economists said Tuesday after the Federal Reserve nudged a key rate up by a quarter-point. 

 The central bank, trying to stay one step ahead of rising prices, raised its federal funds rate to 5.5 percent from 5.25 percent. Major banks responded by raising their prime lending rates to 8.5 percent, which will trigger similar increases in a wide range of consumer and business interest fees. 
   TD Higher interest rates typically dismay Wall Street, because they slow economic growth. But investors had anticipated the move -- the Fed's third boost since June -- and they celebrated the widespread sentiment that policy-makers are done for the year. 

 Stocks rose broadly. The Dow Jones industrial average closed up 171.58 at 10,932.33, and the Nasdaq composite index and the Standard & Poor's 500 both surged to new highs. 

 "I think we have seen all the rate increases we will see for six months," said Bernard Weinstein, director of the Center for Economic Development and Research at the University of North Texas. 

 Analysts said Federal Reserve Board Chairman Alan Greenspan and his fellow policy-makers are unlikely to raise rates at their next meeting Dec. 21. And though the Fed indicated it is still concerned about rising prices, the central bank also adopted a so-called neutral bias toward rate changes. The Fed previously had signaled a tilt toward higher rates. 

 "This was the last blow the Fed needs to strike," said Robert MacIntosh, vice president for Eaton Vance, a Boston mutual funds company. 

 Some business groups and lawmakers were critical of the Fed's move, saying the rate hike was unnecessary because there are no clear signs of inflation. But most independent economists said the Fed had moved prudently. 

 Tuesday's action affected two rates. The federal funds rate is the rate banks charge one another for overnight loans. The Fed also raised its discount rate, the interest fee its charges on direct loans to banks, a quarter percentage point to 5 percent. 

 Short-term interest rates are now where they were when the central bank began reducing them in 1998 in an effort to inoculate the U.S. economy against the worldwide currency crisis that started in Asia. 

 Since then, the economy has grown at a sizzling pace. Prices haven't spiked alarmingly, but economists note that the pace of consumer and wholesale inflation is picking up. 

 "They [Fed governors] figured it would be less of a mistake to raise rates than to push their luck any further," said Cynthia Latta, an economist at Standard & Poor's DRI, a Lexington, Mass., consulting firm. "You don't want to get this momentum in prices going, and they want to nip it in the bud." 

 Economists said the Fed also was eager to finish raising rates so that financial markets would be stable in advance of any year 2000 computer woes next month. 

 "It is simply not practical to be raising interest rates in the middle of the Y2K season," said Sung Won Sohn, the chief economist at Wells Fargo Bank in Minneapolis. "The Fed had to either raise rates now, or wait until February." 

 Economic growth has surged in recent months. Gross domestic product, the total of goods and services produced, grew at a whopping 4.8 percent rate during the third quarter, and analysts expect hefty gains during the final three months of 1999. 

 At the same time, consumer spending for homes, autos and retail goods may be slowing, analysts said. 

 Some said that slowdown was enough reason to hold off on raising interest rates. "The Fed's rush to raise interest rates was unwarranted," said Martin Regalia, chief economist at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. 

 And Rep. Jim Saxton, R-N.J., vice chairman of Congress' Joint Economic Committee, added: "I hope the current rate increase will be the last rate hike for now, given the lack of evidence showing meaningful trend increases in core inflation." 

 While consumers appear to be taking a breather, other sectors of the economy remain robust. In a separate report Tuesday, the Fed said industrial production in October registered the largest increase in seven months. 

 Output at the nation's factories, utilities and mines rose 0.7 percent. Factories were running at 80.7 percent capacity, up from 80.4 percent in September. 

 Moreover, analysts say, the 4.1 percent unemployment rate leaves the Fed fearful that employers eventually will have to pay dramatically higher wages to attract and retain workers. 

 "They are worried that we are running out of warm bodies," said Bruce Steinberg, the chief economist at Merrill Lynch & Co. in New York. 

 So far, productivity gains have made it possible for employers to pay higher wages without raising prices. For instance, productivity --the amount of hourly output by workers -- rose 4.2 percent in the third quarter. 

 In public speeches and testimony to Congress, Mr. Greenspan has expressed doubts about whether such large productivity gains can be sustained. And the Fed reasserted its inflation concerns in its interest-rate announcement Tuesday. 

 "Although cost pressures appear generally contained, risks to sustainable growth persist," the Fed statement said. 

 Some independent experts said Mr. Greenspan is overly worried about inflation. They contend that productivity improvements are even better than reported by the government, noting that gains from computers and information technology are creating high growth with low inflation. 

 "The Fed choose to look at the tight labor market indicators and to ignore recent productivity gains," said Mr. Regalia, the Chamber of Commerce economist. "If this were a football game, they would draw a penalty flag for piling on." 
   COmcgrwh : The McGraw-Hill Companies   INi814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSc22 : New Products/Services | c31 : Marketing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPC52111 | 6011   IPDNew Products & Services | Marketing | Company News | Economic News | Interest Rates | Economic Indicators | United States of America, Americas~US | Americas | North America | Pacific Rim | Federal_Reserve_USA | Federal Reserve Banks | Monetary Authorities - Central Bank   ANDocument krtbn00020010828dvbh0247q  

HD Interest Rate  Hike Is Not Expected to Hurt Macon, Ga.-Area Home Sales    BY Jarred Schenke    WC756 words   PD17 November 1999   SNKRTBN Knight-Ridder Tribune Business News: The Macon Telegraph - Georgia   SCKRTBN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright (C) 1999 KRTBN Knight Ridder Tribune Business News; Source: World Reporter (TM)
   LP MACON, Ga.--Wayne Smith said he won't curse the Fed. 

 Even with Tuesday's bump in a key short-term interest rate by the Federal Reserve, Smith said he doubts his business will be hurt in the coming year. For Smith -- a residential Realtor with Macon Leaders & Associates Inc. -- as long as the interest rate is below double digits, it's a marginal consideration for home-buyers. 
   TD "It may slow some people down, but I think the market is so strong right now that anything under 10 (percent interest on home loans makes for) a good market," Smith said. "When you break it down to the lowest simple point, you're giving up a hamburger a week with the interest rate. I don't think that matters to people who really want a house." 

 And Smith isn't alone. Other residential real-estate agents in the Macon area remained unfazed Tuesday as news spread that the Federal Reserve had raised its federal funds rate, the interest that banks charge each other on overnight loans, by a quarter point -- the third increase this year. 

 Fed officials said the increase was an effort to counter "excesses in the economy's growth potential." 

 But the real concern for potential home-buyers is how the increase will add to the cost of new mortgages. 

 The Fed's quarter-point increase in the funds rate was expected to be followed quickly by announcements from commercial banks that they were boosting their prime lending rate by a quarter point, from the current 8.25 percent to 8.5 percent. 

 The prime rate is a key benchmark for millions of loans, from home-equity and credit card balances to short-term loans for small businesses. 

 But many real-estate agents say that, compared to the history of interest rates, which were double figures during the 1970s and 1980s, Tuesday's action will not deter consumers. 

 "The idea that we'd be in a 70 percent market now in '99 is phenomenal to me," said Guy Gunn, vice president of residential sales for Fickling & Co. Inc. 

 Gunn said consumers see the low interest rates more as a fringe benefit to buying a new home than a reason to go out and buy one. 

 "As long as that's the case, I don't think interest rates have the impact on the market a lot of people think," he said. "The bottom line is, if a person needs to buy a house, they need to buy a house." 

 Despite the optimism, it's hard to gauge how this latest interest rate increase will affect the local housing market. 

 Currently, many real estate agents are in the annual home-sale slowdown, as people settle into a new school year and prepare for the holiday season. 

 In fact, local housing sales have dropped sharply since August, according to figures compiled by the Macon Multiple Listing Service. 

 New home sales in the Macon region -- including Jones County --have been cut in half, from $4.1 million in August to $2.1 million in October, according to the MLS figures. And home resales dropped almost as much, from almost $17 million in August to $11.4 million in October. 

 In fact, home sales in October were the lowest of any October in at least three years -- 126 homes, compared with 152 last year and 145 in 1997. 

 What activity the market did produce this year was strongest in the north and northwest areas -- especially on Zebulon Road -- as well as the southern region along Hartley Bridge Road. Other strong housing markets include Warner Robins, south Monroe County and Jones County, which has become something of a bedroom community for those who work in Macon. 

 But William Parker, executive director of Macon MLS, said he's not concerned about the sudden downturn. 

 "They normally go down this time of year," Parker said. "People don't normally sell during the holidays." 

 If housing sales continue to follow the same trend as last year, then Parker said the market will likely pick up again in February. 

 "If it's down significantly for three or four months, then you've got a problem. But just one month, that's not indicative of anything," he said. 

 Herbert Wynn, president of both RE/MAX of Macon and the Middle Georgia Association of Realtors, agreed. 

 "Especially this close to Thanksgiving, (home sales) start to go down," Wynn said. 
   INi85 : Real Estate Transactions | icre : Construction/Real Estate   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPC53121 | 6531   IPDCompany News | Economic News | Interest Rates | Economic Indicators | United States of America, Americas~US | Americas | North America | Pacific Rim | Federal_Reserve_USA | Real Estate Agents Managers | Offices of Real Estate Agents & Brokers   ANDocument krtbn00020010828dvbh0246u  

HD Holiday Shopping Expected to Thrive Despite  Federal Reserve 's Rate Boost    BY Mary Vanac    WC641 words   PD17 November 1999   SNKRTBN Knight-Ridder Tribune Business News: Akron Beacon Journal - Ohio   SCKRTBN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright (C) 1999 KRTBN Knight Ridder Tribune Business News; Source: World Reporter (TM)
   LP The Federal Reserve tried to let the air out of future inflation yesterday by raising short-term interest rates for the third time this year. 

 The interest rate rise means consumers and businesses will pay more on their variable-rate loans or credit cards. Bank customers also will earn a little more on their interest-bearing accounts. 
   TD But the rise is not expected to hurt strong consumer spending during the upcoming holiday season. 

 "Retailers are poised to have a very positive holiday season," said Scott Krugman, spokesman for the National Retail Federation. The federation expects retail sales to increase between 6 percent and 6.5 percent this year over last year, Krugman said. 

 And the interest rate hike had the effect of helping the stock and bond markets. Investors liked the Fed's announcement that it is done with interest rates rises, for now. 

 On Wall Street, both the Standard & Poor's 500 and the Nasdaq composite index hit record highs yesterday. And the Dow Jones industrial average rose 171.58 to close at 10,932.33. 

 The bond market reacted favorably to the Fed's continuing action to control inflation, which severely erodes the value of bonds, said Richard DeKaser, newly appointed senior vice president and chief economist for National City Corp. in Cleveland. 

 During its Open Market Committee meeting yesterday, the Fed raised the target for its federal funds rate by 0.25 percentage points to 5.5 percent. The federal funds rate is the rate banks charge each other for overnight loans. 

 The Fed also raised its discount rate -- the rate it charges member banks for loans -- by 0.25 percentage points to 5 percent. 

 The moves "should markedly diminish the risk of inflation going forward," the committee said in a statement. 

 The central bank said it was moving its policy directive, which is intended to signal future interest rate moves, back to neutral. The directive had been switched to a bias toward raising rates at the last meeting in October. 

 Fed policy makers have been worried that a dwindling supply of workers, reflected in a record-low unemployment rate, eventually would force up wages and prices, causing inflation. 

 By raising interest rates, the Fed slows down economic growth so inflation is less likely. 

 Just as consumers will see an immediate rise in the interest they pay on variable-rate loans, banks will see an immediate rise in the interest they collect on some loans. 

 "The bank will have an immediate benefit from its home equity, prime rate and credit card borrowers because their rates are indexed to the prime rate," said Mark DuHamel, treasurer for FirstMerit Corp. in Akron. 

 Although FirstMerit did not immediately raise its prime rate, "I fully expect the prime rate to rise," DuHamel said. 

 Some large banks, such as First Union, raised their prime rate yesterday to 8.5 percent from 8.25 percent. 

 The prime rate is the interest rate banks charge their best loan customers, usually businesses. The prime rate also is the basis for many consumer loans, such as home equity and credit card loans. 

 While the rate increase will cost consumers a little more today, it will cost them a lot less in the future, said Ken Mayland, chief economist for Cleveland financial services company KeyCorp. 

 "If there is an inflation problem, we're all going to be losers," Mayland said. 

 Yesterday's rate restores short-term rates to their year-ago level before the Fed lowered rates to keep a troubled world economy afloat. 

 The Fed raises short-term interest rates by taking money out of circulation. The smaller supply of money makes it more expensive to borrow. 

 A smaller money supply also likely will make credit harder to get next year, Mayland said. 
   COmcgrwh : The McGraw-Hill Companies   INi814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSc15 : Performance | c152 : Earnings Projections | c1521 : Analyst Comment/Recommendation | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | nanl : Analysis | ncat : Content Types   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPC52111 | 6011   IPDCompany News | Interest Rates | Economic Indicators | Economic News | Forecasts & Predictions | General News | Comment & Analysis | United States of America, Americas~US | Americas | North America | Pacific Rim | Federal_Reserve_USA | Federal Reserve Banks | Monetary Authorities - Central Bank   ANDocument krtbn00020010828dvbh0244m  

HD Federal Reserve  Boosts Interest Rates in Effort to Stem Inflation    BY Matt Marshall    WC998 words   PD17 November 1999   SNKRTBN Knight-Ridder Tribune Business News: San Jose Mercury News - California   SCKRTBN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright (C) 1999 KRTBN Knight Ridder Tribune Business News; Source: World Reporter (TM)
   LP The Federal Reserve raised key short-term interest rates slightly Tuesday in the hopes of stamping out the threat of higher inflation in the booming economy without unnerving investors, particularly in high-technology companies. 

 The U.S. central bank lifted its federal funds rate on overnight loans between banks by 0.25 percentage point to 5.50 percent, the third increase this year. Analysts called it a modest increase that should slow spending, but maintain investors' confidence in continued growth. 
   TD A more aggressive rate hike might have scared investors into cutting off the huge flow of cash being swallowed up by fast-growing high-tech and Internet companies, said Perry Wong, economist at the Milken Institute for Jobs and Capital Formation in Los Angeles. "There are no fears that the cash is going to stop coming," said Wong. 

 The action restores short-term rates to the level before last year's interest rate cuts that offset the effects of the financial turmoil in Asia and Russia. In addition, the Fed signaled that this may be the last increase for a while. 

 In explaining its action, the Fed emphasized a concern that Alan Greenspan, the central bank's chairman, has stressed in recent months: that the nation is literally running out of workers and that, as it does so, wages and then prices will inevitably be pushed higher, endangering an economic expansion that is about to become the longest in the nation's history. 

 The stock market dipped dramatically on the news of the rate increase, but then shot up again, helping bring the Nasdaq composite index to a record 3,293.05, up 73.51 points and topping the record set last Friday. The Dow Jones industrial average ended up 171.58 points at 10,932.33, its highest close since Sept. 13. The S&P 500 rose 25.64 to 1,420.03, its highest close since July 16. 

 High-tech companies were some of the most actively traded stocks of the day. Microsoft Corp. closed at $87.31, up 31 cents, Dell Computer Corp. closed at $41.69, up 88 cents, and Cisco Systems Inc. closed at $84.50, up $1.69, Intel Corp. of Santa Clara closed at $76.56, up $2.50. 

 Wong said that there has been more positive news than bad news from the earnings reports of high-tech companies in recent days, and that the rate increase wasn't enough to cause concern among investors about the Bay Area's health. 

 Earnings statements by companies like Cisco, Oracle Corp. and America Online Inc., some of the sector's heavyweights, have all met or exceeded expectations, he said. 

 Also, the region's mass of start-up Internet companies often depend on large amounts of capital and higher interest rates could create difficulties in obtaining more. 

 Economists said the Fed's move may not be enough to stop Bay Area housing and other prices from continuing to creep up. The Bay Area consumer price index is rising at about 4.1 percent annually, compared to a national rate of 2.6 percent. The area's unemployment rate is below 3 percent, compared to a national average of 4.1 percent, estimated Wong. 

 Hai Hoang, economist at Bank of America Securities in San Francisco said recent surveys have shown a dramatic fall in the number of applications for mortgages from the summer months -- a result of increased interest rates. However, the robust technology industry will continue to keep the local economy strong, and housing and labor markets market are likely to stay tight, he said. "We have a particular housing problem in the Bay Area," he said. 

 The federal funds rate tends to guide the commercial bank prime rate, which is a key benchmark for millions of loans, from home equity and credit card balances to short-term loans for small businesses. After the Fed's announcement, most major commercial banks raised their prime lending rate from 8.25 percent to 8.5 percent. 

 The Fed also increased its mostly symbolic discount rate on direct Fed loans to banks to 5 percent from 4.75 percent. 

 "Today's increase in the federal funds rate, together with the policy actions in June and August and the firming of conditions more generally in U.S. financial markets over the course of the year, should markedly diminish the risk of inflation going forward," the Fed said in a statement. 

 The sizzling U.S. economy grew at a 4.8 percent annual rate in the third quarter, far above the 3 percent rate many Fed policy-makers believe is sustainable without causing inflation in today's tight labor market. Unemployment stands its lowest rate in three decades. Another rate increase would help slow the economy. 

 Economists had argued that most recently released economic data suggest that price and wage inflation for now is low, and that gains in productivity growth -- the amount of output for each hour of work -- continue to hold inflation down. 

 The Fed also added a cautionary note in its statement that inflation remains a risk, causing some investors in the inflation-sensitive bond market to worry. 

 "Although cost pressures appear generally contained, risks to sustainable growth persist," the central bank said. "Despite tentative evidence of a slowing in certain interest-sensitive sectors of the economy and of accelerating productivity, the expansion of activity continues in excess of the economy's growth potential," the statement added. 

 While headline inflation numbers have displayed few danger signs, many economists have warned that underlying costs, reflected in the rising prices of commodities that are used in production, are slowly moving up. 

 However, many economists doubt the Fed will run the risk of adding to potential upheavals from the year 2000 computer problem, which would most likely put off any rate rises at least until next year's first FOMC meeting on Feb. 1 and 2. 
   INi814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPC52111 | 6011   IPDCompany News | Inflation | Economic Indicators | Economic News | Interest Rates | United States of America, Americas~US | Americas | North America | Pacific Rim | Federal_Reserve_USA | Federal Reserve Banks | Monetary Authorities - Central Bank   ANDocument krtbn00020010828dvbh02413  



 HD Bradys Open Weaker On Profit-Taking,  Interest Rate  Hike    WC361 words   PD17 November 1999   ET15:28   SNDow Jones International News   SCDJI   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- Brady bonds are opening weaker across the board in New York on some profit taking following a recent strong rally. 

 Market weakness early Wednesday was also attributed to news that three major Latin American nations were coming to market with new bonds. 
   TD Meanwhile, prices were also damped by the U.S. Federal Reserve's decision Tuesday to raise interest rates by 25 basis points. 

 Worried that a recent rally may be losing steam as the benchmark J.P. Morgan Emerging Markets Bond Index approaches yield spreads of 900, participants were seen selling. 

 Among specific issues, Mexico Pars were 3/16 softer to 77 1/2 bid. The country earlier priced Y30 billion of 3.0% four-year samurai bonds at Y100.31. 

 Meanwhile, Argentina's Eurobonds due 2027 were down 3/4 to 84 1/2 bid. Days after Argentina reopened its Global bonds due 2017, the Latin American nation is once again tapping the Eurobond market with a EUR300 million offering of new 10% securities due Dec. 7, 2004. 

 Argentina's Globals due 2017 opened down 7/8 as investors fear a glut of paper. 

 Colombia is slated to price later Wednesday or early Thursday $500 million in 10-year bonds with a put in 2005. The new securities will turn into Colombia's outstanding 2009 bonds if investors elect not to put. 

 Elsewhere, Brazil's benchmark C-bonds were down 1/4 to 70 1/8 bid. 

 In Emerging Europe, Russia's Soviet-era debt was declining after a two-day run up. PRINs were down 1/4 to 11 1/8 bid and IANs were off 3/4 to 13 3/4 bid. 

 Officials from Russia and the London Club of sovereign creditors held 12 hours of negotiations Tuesday on how to restructure the country's $30 billion in defaulted debt. 

 Russia and its creditors are meeting again Wednesday in Frankfurt. 


Earlier Wednesday, Russian Finance Minister Mikhail Kasyanov was
reported as saying that he discussions have been "complicated."
  -By Amy Guthrie, Dow Jones Newswires; 201-938-2225;
   amy.guthrie@dowjones.com

   RF1179 1810 4071   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m11 : Equity Markets | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REarg : Argentina | asiaz : Asia | braz : Brazil | camz : Central America | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | eeurz : Central/Eastern Europe | eurz : Europe | lamz : Latin America | mex : Mexico | namz : North America | russ : Russia | samz : South America | usa : United States | ussrz : CIS Countries | ven : Venezuela   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument dji0000020010826dvbh083fv  



 HD Canada's Thiessen Sees Inflation Risk Despite Rate Hike    WC765 words   PD17 November 1999   ET17:43   SNDow Jones News Service   SCDJ   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP OTTAWA -(Dow Jones)- Bank of Canada Governor Gordon Thiessen said interest rate hikes in both Canada and the U.S. will help ease inflationary pressure across North America, but he stressed the risk of inflation remains. 

 Earlier Wednesday, the bank announced that it raised its interest rate 1/4 of a precentage point to 5%. The action, aimed at easing recent inflationary pressures in Canada, follows Tuesday's move by the U.S. Federal Reserve to raise its interest rate 25 basis points to 5 1/2%. 
   TD Thiessen told reporters the Bank of Canada's projection of 2% inflation next year comes with a risk of stronger momentum in demand, both at home and abroad, and the risk of potential inflation pressures pushing North from the U.S. 

 "The challenge in monetary policy remains," said Thiessen. "We will be carefully monitoring all available indicators of future inflation pressures. Any resurgence of inflation in Canada would undermine our prospects for a durable (economic) expansion." 

 Thiessen said Canada wants to avoid an economy that is growing faster than is sustainable. He said the bank is very cautious about Canada hitting its ceiling of economic capacity too rapidly. 

 "If you're not sure exactly where that level of capacity is, you don't want to hit it with a bang," he said. 

 Bank of Canada Governor Gordon Thiessen said he is not concerned by the increased rise in household debt levels in Canada, saying that because inflation is currently low in Canada and the U.S. and that the U.S. Federal Reserve has acted in a premptory fashion, Canadians are unlikely to see the high nominal interest rates of the past. 

 "It's quite different than it was during the 70s and 80s, where people were always concerned. At the slightest sign of inflation pressure, you'd see wages, prices and interest rates going up. We don't see that now. So I think the debt levels are less worrisome than they were before." 

 While he refused to forecast the state of the Canadian dollar in the new year, Thiessen did say he thinks strong international commodity prices will provide strong support for the Canadian dollar in the near future. 

 "With the recovery of commodity prices, and our general good performance in exporting, you can see the current account deficit diminishing very rapidly," he said. "And it is not difficult, as we predicted in the next year or two, to see us moving into a current account surplus." 

 Thiessen said the Bank of Canada is trying to avoid the boom and bust cycles of the 1970s and 1980s, saying it is important that the red hot economy doesn't overheat, putting Canada in a situation where its businesses can't meet strong demand. The goal, said Thiessen, is to operate the economy as close to its maximum capacity as possible, without surpassing a sustainable economic level. 

 "It's like driving a car," he said. "If you drive really rapidly, you might get to where you want to go more quickly, but you may also have an accident. So it's much better to drive at a safe speed to get where you want to go, and make sure you continue to drive tomorrow." 

 Thiessen said Canadians are spending more now than in the recent past, and that that domestic spending should make-up for a lot of the current domestic demand. He also pointed out that productivity has been strong and positive recently, and that unit labor costs have remained very low. That means increases in wages and salaries recently have been compensated for by increased productivity, he said. 

 Thiessen concluded by saying the Bank of Canada will have to wait and see if its current interest rate hike of a 1/4 of a per cent will be enough to stave off inflationary pressures. 

 "A lot depends for Canada on the rest of the world," Thiessen said. "How strong is the rest of the world? Is that U.S. economy going to slow down to something more sustainable? These are very important questions for us. When you're a medium-sized, open economy you can't make projections the way you do in the United States. For us, the rest of the world matters a lot. If the rest of the world is going to grow at a nice sustainable pace, than it may well be that we're fine. But you can't tell from any projections." 

 -Joel Baglole, Dow Jones Newswires; 613-237-0668 
   RF4216   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REcana : Canada | namz : North America | usa : United States   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument dj00000020010827dvbh07d8u  



 HD Bradys Open Weaker On Profit-Taking,  Interest Rate  Hike    WC361 words   PD17 November 1999   ET15:28   SNDow Jones News Service   SCDJ   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- Brady bonds are opening weaker across the board in New York on some profit taking following a recent strong rally. 

 Market weakness early Wednesday was also attributed to news that three major Latin American nations were coming to market with new bonds. 
   TD Meanwhile, prices were also damped by the U.S. Federal Reserve's decision Tuesday to raise interest rates by 25 basis points. 

 Worried that a recent rally may be losing steam as the benchmark J.P. Morgan Emerging Markets Bond Index approaches yield spreads of 900, participants were seen selling. 

 Among specific issues, Mexico Pars were 3/16 softer to 77 1/2 bid. The country earlier priced Y30 billion of 3.0% four-year samurai bonds at Y100.31. 

 Meanwhile, Argentina's Eurobonds due 2027 were down 3/4 to 84 1/2 bid. Days after Argentina reopened its Global bonds due 2017, the Latin American nation is once again tapping the Eurobond market with a EUR300 million offering of new 10% securities due Dec. 7, 2004. 

 Argentina's Globals due 2017 opened down 7/8 as investors fear a glut of paper. 

 Colombia is slated to price later Wednesday or early Thursday $500 million in 10-year bonds with a put in 2005. The new securities will turn into Colombia's outstanding 2009 bonds if investors elect not to put. 

 Elsewhere, Brazil's benchmark C-bonds were down 1/4 to 70 1/8 bid. 

 In Emerging Europe, Russia's Soviet-era debt was declining after a two-day run up. PRINs were down 1/4 to 11 1/8 bid and IANs were off 3/4 to 13 3/4 bid. 

 Officials from Russia and the London Club of sovereign creditors held 12 hours of negotiations Tuesday on how to restructure the country's $30 billion in defaulted debt. 

 Russia and its creditors are meeting again Wednesday in Frankfurt. 


Earlier Wednesday, Russian Finance Minister Mikhail Kasyanov was
reported as saying that he discussions have been "complicated."
  -By Amy Guthrie, Dow Jones Newswires; 201-938-2225;
   amy.guthrie@dowjones.com

   RF1179 1810 4071   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REarg : Argentina | asiaz : Asia | braz : Brazil | camz : Central America | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | eeurz : Central/Eastern Europe | eurz : Europe | lamz : Latin America | mex : Mexico | namz : North America | russ : Russia | samz : South America | usa : United States | ussrz : CIS Countries | ven : Venezuela   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument dj00000020010827dvbh07d46  



 HD Large Bond Options Position Adding To T-Bond Decline    WC430 words   PD17 November 1999   ET20:02   SNCapital Markets Report   SCCM   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP By Christine Marie Nielsen 

 CHICAGO -(Dow Jones)- Hefty open interest in December 114 Treasury bond call options is one of the main factors keeping downward pressure on the underlying December bond futures contract Wednesday, market players say. 
   TD Bond options traders said with a decline in futures prices after Wednesday's market-negative housing data, many individuals who held December 114 calls chose to get out of those positions. 

 That forced locals, or independents who trade for their own accounts and provide much of the futures pits' liquidity, to take the other side. 

 Buying call options meant these traders were long Treasury futures, and to even out their risk they were forced to sell futures contracts, leading to the 3/4-point decline in the December bond contract. 

 Call options give participants the right to buy a futures contract at a set price, and in this case those holding the December 114 bond calls wanted the right to buy the December bond futures contract at 114-00 in the hopes that it would rise above that level and they could sell the contract at a profit. 

 But stronger-than-expected housing permits data for October, coupled with a still firm housing starts report, suggested the Federal Reserve's three interest-rate hikes this year may not be enough to stem inflation. That sent Treasury contracts lower on the fear that rates will have to go higher next year. 

 Tuesday, the Fed raised its key Federal funds rate 25 basis points to 5.5%, taking back the three cuts it made to rates last year. 

 The drop in the December contract below 114 made the 114 call options near-worthless, and some players scrambled to sell them for something before Friday's expiration, traders said. 

 Chicago Board of Trade figures show the December 114 bond calls had a large open interest of 60,018 positions Tuesday. 

 One bond options trader estimated individual options usually expire with open interest of 40,000 or less. 

 However, the market participant said open interest in the 114 bond calls will also likely be down to the 40,000-mark by the end of the week, which means approximately 20,000 positions would have to be reversed and laid off in bond futures. 

 "Holders of those calls are nervous because they expire Friday," the options trader remarked. 

 At 1:50 p.m. EST Wednesday, December bond futures traded at 113-26. 


December bond options expire Friday at 1:00 p.m. EST.
   Christine Marie Nielsen (312)750-4117

   INi831 : Financial Investments | i83106 : Securities/Commodity Exchange Activities | iinv : Investing/Securities   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m15 : Derivative Securities | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument cm00000020010826dvbh01ne5  



 HD Bradys Open Weaker On Profit-Taking,  Interest Rate  Hike    WC361 words   PD17 November 1999   ET15:28   SNCapital Markets Report   SCCM   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- Brady bonds are opening weaker across the board in New York on some profit taking following a recent strong rally. 

 Market weakness early Wednesday was also attributed to news that three major Latin American nations were coming to market with new bonds. 
   TD Meanwhile, prices were also damped by the U.S. Federal Reserve's decision Tuesday to raise interest rates by 25 basis points. 

 Worried that a recent rally may be losing steam as the benchmark J.P. Morgan Emerging Markets Bond Index approaches yield spreads of 900, participants were seen selling. 

 Among specific issues, Mexico Pars were 3/16 softer to 77 1/2 bid. The country earlier priced Y30 billion of 3.0% four-year samurai bonds at Y100.31. 

 Meanwhile, Argentina's Eurobonds due 2027 were down 3/4 to 84 1/2 bid. Days after Argentina reopened its Global bonds due 2017, the Latin American nation is once again tapping the Eurobond market with a EUR300 million offering of new 10% securities due Dec. 7, 2004. 

 Argentina's Globals due 2017 opened down 7/8 as investors fear a glut of paper. 

 Colombia is slated to price later Wednesday or early Thursday $500 million in 10-year bonds with a put in 2005. The new securities will turn into Colombia's outstanding 2009 bonds if investors elect not to put. 

 Elsewhere, Brazil's benchmark C-bonds were down 1/4 to 70 1/8 bid. 

 In Emerging Europe, Russia's Soviet-era debt was declining after a two-day run up. PRINs were down 1/4 to 11 1/8 bid and IANs were off 3/4 to 13 3/4 bid. 

 Officials from Russia and the London Club of sovereign creditors held 12 hours of negotiations Tuesday on how to restructure the country's $30 billion in defaulted debt. 

 Russia and its creditors are meeting again Wednesday in Frankfurt. 


Earlier Wednesday, Russian Finance Minister Mikhail Kasyanov was
reported as saying that he discussions have been "complicated."
  -By Amy Guthrie, Dow Jones Newswires; 201-938-2225;
   amy.guthrie@dowjones.com

   RF1179 1810 4071   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REarg : Argentina | asiaz : Asia | braz : Brazil | camz : Central America | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | eeurz : Central/Eastern Europe | eurz : Europe | lamz : Latin America | mex : Mexico | namz : North America | russ : Russia | samz : South America | usa : United States | ussrz : CIS Countries | ven : Venezuela   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument cm00000020010826dvbh01nax  

HD Analysts Are Split on Likelihood of  Interest-Rate  Increase    BY Monique El-Faizy    WC560 words   PD16 November 1999   SNKRTBN Knight-Ridder Tribune Business News: Daily News - New York City   SCKRTBN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright (C) 1999 KRTBN Knight Ridder Tribune Business News; Source: World Reporter (TM)
   LP Will they or won't they? 

 Not even the experts know for sure if the Federal Reserve Board will raise interest rates when it meets today. 
   TD Wall Street economists have become unusually indecisive. 

 "This is going to be a very tight coin toss," said Phil Orlando, chief investment officer at Value Line Asset Management. 

 The Fed last raised interest rates Aug. 24, hoping to keep the economy growing while keeping inflation in check. 

 Short-term rates moved up a quarter of a percentage point to 5.25 percent, and the discount rate used by the Fed to lend money directly to banks moved up the same amount to 4.75 percent. 

 This time, there are strong arguments for either raising rates or keeping them the same, Orlando said. 

 One school of thought holds that the Fed wants to take back this year all the rate reductions it gave last year, which would mean they still need to raise rates a quarter of a point. 

 Some economists in that camp think the November meeting is the Fed's last chance this year to do so because the monetary policy makers don't want to exacerbate the public's Y2K jitters by hiking rates so close to the end of the year. 

 On the flip side are the numbers. Signs of runaway inflation -- the Fed's biggest fear -- just aren't there, Orlando said. 

 So how does he call it? 

 "I haven't answered that question in my own mind," he said. "I do not believe there is an economic justification for the Fed to tighten, but I do believe that the Fed has a preconceived agenda" to take back last year's rate hikes." 

 Other economists wouldn't even try to predict the outcome of tomorrow's meeting. 

 "The quarter I usually flip in the air to figure out if the Fed's going to tighten or not, I used in a vending machine," said Charles Pradilla, chief investment strategist at SG Cowen. 

 Pradilla said he's been working on Wall Street for 30 years and has never seen economists so unsure of what the Fed will do. Then again, he's never seen the economy behave this way, either. 

 With economic growth as high as it is, and unemployment as low as it is, inflation should be a problem, he said. But it's not, largely because technology has made workers more productive. 

 "This is a totally different expansion than anything I've seen," Pradilla said. "This is a brand new movie." 

 Usually, watching the economy is familiar, "like seeing 'Casablanca' for the 32nd time -- you know what Humphrey Bogart is going to say," Pradilla said. "This time, instead of being set in Morocco, it's set in Pittsburgh. It's fascinating." 

 But some Wall Streeters are feeling confident enough to pick sides. 

 Liz MacKay, chief investment strategist at Bear Stearns, is betting that, given the recent economic numbers, there will be no hike today but there will be one early next year -- largely because productivity is so high. 

 But Aubrey G. Lanston chief economist David Jones, who's written several books about the Fed, is betting on a quarter-point hike. 

 "It's probably the most likely choice, but it's a very close call," he said. 
   INi814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPC52111 | 92113 | 6011 | 9311   IPDEconomic News | Interest Rates | Economic Indicators | Forecasts & Predictions | General News | Government News | United States of America, Americas~US | Americas | North America | Pacific Rim | Federal_Reserve_USA | Federal Reserve Banks, Finance Taxation & Monetary Policy | Monetary Authorities - Central Bank, Public Finance Activities   ANDocument krtbn00020010828dvbg0244d  

HD New Jersey Bankers, Experts Anticipate  Interest-Rate  Hike    BY David Schwab    WC748 words   PD16 November 1999   SNKRTBN Knight-Ridder Tribune Business News: The Star-Ledger - Newark, New Jersey   SCKRTBN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright (C) 1999 KRTBN Knight Ridder Tribune Business News; Source: World Reporter (TM)
   LP Unemployment is the lowest in three decades. Inflation is low but creeping upward. Productivity is rising. Workers are scare. 

 Some say the economy is doing just fine, others say Alan Greenspan and the Federal Reserve need to cool things down a bit. 
   TD Unlike many previous meetings, analysts this time are almost equally divided over whether the Fed will raise rates for the third time this year. 

 A rate hike would ripple through the nation's economy, boosting borrowing costs for companies and consumers alike and possibly slowing interest-rate sensitive industries, such as banking and real estate. 

 So what is Greenspan going to do today? Here are the thoughts of a few observers. 

 Gerald Lipkin, chief executive officer of Valley National Bancorp. in Wayne, believes the economy is doing well, and inflation has generally been contained. 

 "People are working. In fact, we truly have full employment, and that is a sign of a good economy," he said. 

 But Greenspan may be concerned that interest rates remain artificially low, which would provide an unneeded stimulus to a roaring economy. Lipkin, though, isn't about to second-guess Greenspan. 

 "I have a lot of confidence in the way the Fed has handled the economy," he said. "They've handled it wonderfully. It's hard to give advice to the jockey who's been riding the same horse for 20 races and taking first place every time." 

 His prediction: There's a 50 percent chance the Fed will raise rates. 

 Joseph Seneca, chairman of the Governor's Council of Economic Advisors and vice president for academic affairs and Rutgers economics professor, believes the economy is fundamentally sound, with low inflation and solid growth. 

 Productivity gains appear to be offsetting any shortage of workers and the economy is "reaping the rewards" of the computer revolution. One potential concern, though, is rising energy prices. 

 "I think the moon and the stars and the planets are in line for good expansion with little price pressure," he said. 

 He thinks the odds favor no increase this time around. 

 "The jury is still out, but I think the Fed could still pass on making a rate increase," he said. 

 Steven J. Pozycki, owner & president of SJP Properties in Parsippany, a major developer and owner of corporate office buildings, thinks the national economy "is heated, but not overheated." 

 Even if the Fed raised rates again, he doesn't expect a drastic impact on the commercial real estate market. 

 That's because the main factor influencing investment and development decisions is the supply of office space in a given local area -- say the Parsippany area or the Jersey City waterfront versus the current and expected demand for such space. 

 In this regard, most local markets in the New York metropolitan area "have good fundamentals" with supply and demand in good balance. 

 His advice for Alan Greenspan? "Be cautious. Don't overreact. We do have a heated economy but not an overheated one. Follow a path of moderation." 

 Gary Shilling, who heads his own investment firm in Springfield, thinks the economy is slowing. 

 "The economy looks like it is growing more slowly. Inflation is certainly no big issue," he said. 

 He believes the economy may be growing more slowly than it appears, thanks to Y2K-induced spending, with businesses building inventory just in case. 

 For example, he noticed a store on Route 22 the other day that sells fireplace equipment and wood burning stoves, with Y2K signs all over. "They can hardly keep the woodburning stoves in stock," he said. 

 Shilling, known for his often downbeat view of Wall Street's direction, is expecting a significant slowdown next year. 

 "We think the Fed has already done enough to precipitate a bear market in stocks, and there will probably be a recession next year because consumer spending is so dependent on how the stock market performs," he said. He suspects the Fed will do nothing. 

 Many consumers may not be hanging on Greenspan's every word, but they know he can cost them. 

 Some shoppers interviewed at the new Jersey Gardens outlet mall in Elizabeth said they were worried about rising interest rates, especially on credit card balances. 

 "Rates are already a little high, and if they raise them again, I think it will be a tight Christmas," said Dave Edmonds of Middletown, a 52-year-old service technician for a company that sells office furniture in New York. 
   COvnbnj : Valley National Bancorp   INi814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPC52111 | 6011   IPDEconomic News | Interest Rates | Economic Indicators | Forecasts & Predictions | General News | United States of America, Americas~US | Americas | North America | Pacific Rim | New Jersey | Federal_Reserve_USA | Federal Reserve Banks | Monetary Authorities - Central Bank   ANDocument krtbn00020010828dvbg02444  

HD Chicago Tribune Market Report Column    BY Bill Barnhart    WC636 words   PD16 November 1999   SNKRTBN Knight-Ridder Tribune Business News: Chicago Tribune - Illinois   SCKRTBN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright (C) 1999 KRTBN Knight Ridder Tribune Business News; Source: World Reporter (TM)
   LP EVERYONE KNOWS THE ALLEGORY ABOUT THE INVASION from Mars that causes earthlings to forget their trivial controversies and focus instead on a much larger issue. 

 One minute, squabbles among nations and within factions of each country seem momentous. Experts and advocates on all sides compete in the public forum. The next minute, who cares? 
   TD Tuesday's meeting of the Federal Reserve's monetary policy committee, which will vote on whether to raise the Fed's short-term interest rate target, should have been the focus of intense debate and news coverage, as the U.S. economy races toward its longest expansion ever. 

 But a "who cares" attitude has descended on the scheduled proceedings in Washington. Experts are divided evenly on whether the Fed will boost its rate target, and non-experts have pretty much lost interest. 

 The historic trade agreement between the United States and China, disclosed Monday, and President Clinton's signature last week on a bill repealing Depression-era constraints on bank expansionism, known as the Glass-Steagall Act, may not equal an invasion from Mars. But these stories have much larger significance than what happens to the so-called Fed funds rate. 

 Engaging China more fully in world affairs is an over-arching objective for any business or political leader who values global stability and the rule of law. But the agreement is fraught with risks, especially for U.S. workers who may be replaced by cheaper Chinese labor. 

 The repeal of the Glass-Steagall Act restrictions on banks will enable U.S. financial institutions to compete more effectively around the world, including China. But the repeal threatens consumers with a new set of annoyances and abuses by heedless conglomerates. 

 Meanwhile, a quarter-point increase in the Fed's interest rate target seems to be pretty much in the cards. Unless the Fed boosts rates a half percentage point, to 5.75 percent from 5.25 percent, the central bankers will enjoy a respite from the spotlight as investors digest bigger news. 

 None other than Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan himself contributed to this welcome diversion Monday, when he gave a speech to a trade group for the life insurance industry. 

 Reading between the lines of Greenspan's speech it's clear the Fed chief has become sensitized to the problem known as "moral hazard." 

 Moral hazard refers to the problem you encounter when you aid someone or some cause and find that your assistance has weakened the self-reliance of your beneficiary and left you responsible for assistance down the road. 

 The International Monetary Fund under managing director Michel Camdessus, who last week announced his resignation, is perhaps the best example of institutional moral hazard on the global economic scene. By imposing its policies on troubled economies around the world through the carrot and stick of IMF loans, the IMF creates an environment for more failures, its critics say. 

 Greenspan runs the same risk when he pronounces his views on the level of stock and bond prices and threatens, if only by implication, to use his power over short-term interest rates to guide stock and bond prices. 

 Speaking of the Fed's reluctance to inject itself in insurance regulation in a post-Glass-Steagall world, Greenspan said: 

 "The spread of bank-like regulation over a wider ambit would bring with it not only constraints on innovation and flexibility, but also less market discipline. Creditors and stakeholders (of securities firms and insurance companies) would assume that the regulators were ensuring safe and sound operations and/or that the regulators would bail out the entity if there was a problem." 

 Greenspan needs to put on his other hat and make the same statement about the stock market. Otherwise, the next bear market will scare even the Martians. 
   INi814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | iinv : Investing/Securities   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | e51 : Trade/External Payments | e512 : Physical Trade | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | ghome : Law Enforcement   REasiaz : Asia | china : China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America | usa : United States   IPC52111 | 92111 | 52211 | 52311 | 6011 | 9111 | 602 | 6211   IPDInterest Rates | Economic Indicators | Economic News | International Affairs | Government News | International Trade Agreements | Foreign Trade | Law & Legal Issues | General News | Regulation of Business | Company News | Forecasts & Predictions | United States of America, Americas~US | China, Asia~CN | Americas | North America | Pacific Rim | Asia | Far East | Federal Reserve USA | Federal Reserve Banks, Executive Offices, Commercial Banks, Security Brokers & Dealers | Monetary Authorities - Central Bank, Executive Offices, Commercial Banking, Investment Banking & Securities Dealing   ANDocument krtbn00020010828dvbg0241r  



 SE Report on Business: Money & Markets    HD Street bets on Fed raising interest rates Most market watchers see increase to 5.5% today    BY GUY DIXON    CRInvestment Reporter   WC711 words   PD16 November 1999   SNThe Globe and Mail   SCGLOB   EDMetro   PGB19   LAEnglish   CY"All material copyright Bell Globemedia Publishing Inc. and its licensors. All rights reserved. "
   LP It may have felt a bit like they were betting the ranch with only a pair of nines and an ace, but the majority of market strategists yesterday were putting their money on the possibility that the U.S. Federal Reserve will raise interest rates today. 

 It's far from a unanimous call. In fact, the only thing market watchers could agree on was how uncertain the outcome of today's Fed policy meeting seemed to be. "This is really a tossup. I can't remember the last time we had a situation like this," said Sung Won Sohn, chief economist and widely quoted Fed watcher at Wells Fargo & Co. in Minneapolis. 
   TD The futures market yesterday was pricing in the possibility of a rate hike at only 60 per cent or so. Yet predictions of a rate increase by a quarter of a percentage point to 5.5 from the current 5.25 seemed to be the conservative bet. 

 Mr. Sohn's rationale for a small rate hike was perhaps the most widely held view heard on the Street. "We are approaching Y2K season. The next opportunity [to raise rates] after November is some time in February and that's a long time. So that tilts slightly in the direction of tightening," he said. 

 Given the possibility that any year 2000 computer glitches could negatively impact banks and the markets, Fed watchers have tended to see November as the last opportunity for the Fed to raise rates this year. However, some were predicting the Fed will abstain this time around. No one was seriously predicting a rate cut. 

 Economists, though, agreed that the Fed will not raise rates closer to year-end at its Dec. 21 meeting. Fifteen of the 28 Wall Street dealers surveyed by Dow Jones Service foresaw a rate hike today, but 27 out of 28 foresaw no move in December. 

 The indecision surrounding today's meeting has been caused by a series of benign inflationary data in recent weeks. After some startlingly strong inflation numbers in mid-October, subsequent data have presented a foggy picture of wage pressures and other inflationary indicators. 

 Some economists had even gotten to the point where they weren't sure whether to believe the benign wage numbers, saying that they could hide serious wage inflation down the road once the pool of available labour in the United States truly dries up. 

 However, with inflation still tame at present, some argue that the Fed has done its job in calming the markets -- no matter what it decides today. 

 "The Street is resigned to a Fed rate hike. But I think more important, though, is the Street feels that the Fed is ahead of the curve on inflation," said John Manley, an equity strategist at Salomon Smith Barney in New York. 

 "If that's the underlining mindset, the Fed can do no wrong. If they raise, that's great. Look at how proactive these guys are. If they don't raise, well, we really didn't need it," he said. 

 Chairman Alan Greenspan and the rest of the monetary policy committee will announce their decision this afternoon. 

 Until recently, professional money managers tended to shrug off trying to second-guess the Fed, putting it somewhere on the your-guess-is-as-good-as-mine scale between foretelling whether the groundhog would see its shadow and trying to predict winning lottery numbers. 

 Yet, the Fed's board of governors in Washington and its 12 district banks have tried to be more open in recent months by subtly hinting to the market whenever any interest rate moves may be forthcoming. 

 That hasn't been the case in recent weeks with Mr. Greenspan and other Fed officials keeping relatively mute before today's meeting. 

 The Bank of Canada, however, has more or less made it clear that it will raise its overnight lending rate if the Fed does so today. The Canadian central bank will release its semiannual monetary policy report tomorrow giving more clues on whether interest rates may be on the rise in Canada. 

 See Vox --/ B20 
   ART Illustration    NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPDUnited States | monetary policy | interest rates | Federal Reserve Board   ANDocument glob000020010827dvbg01n7h  



 HD Fed Increases Rates By Quarter-Point In Bid To Keep Lid On Inflation    WC1,078 words   PD16 November 1999   ET18:35   SNDow Jones Business News   SCDJON   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- The Federal Reserve Tuesday raised short-term interest rates by a quarter-point for a third time this year to prevent an outbreak of inflation, but indicated it is likely to leave rates steady in the near future. 

 Although much recent evidence suggests the U.S. economy continues to grow without significant inflationary pressures, the central bank's policy-making Federal Open Market Committee raised its target on the federal-funds rate by 0.25 percentage point to 5.50% and the discount rate by 0.25 percentage point to 5.0%, hoping to cool the robust economy and stave off any possible buildup in price pressures. 
   TD The federal-funds rate is the rate at which banks make overnight loans to one another; the discount rate is the interest rate the Fed charges on loans it makes to banks. 

 Central bankers also changed their policy directive from a tightening bias to a neutral one, meaning they expect to hold rates steady for a while. The implication that today's rate increase should be enough for now to keep a lid on inflation pleased investors. The Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 171.58, or 1.6%, to 10932.33, while the technology-driven Nasdaq Composite index returned to record territory and the S&P 500 index also set a record. The Nasdaq Composite jumped 73.51, or 2.3%, to 3293.05. The S&P 500 soared 25.64, or 1.8%, to 1420.03. 

 Tuesday's increase reversed the three rate easings the central bank enacted last fall in the wake of the global financial crisis. 

 Two quarter-point hikes this summer in the federal-funds rate had apparently not done enough to dampen growth in the minds of Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan and other policy makers, who felt another pre-emptive strike was necessary to keep inflation at bay. The economy's declining pool of available workers - and the potential for higher wages being passed along to consumers - was apparently too hard for the Fed to ignore. 

 "Although cost pressures appear generally contained, risks to sustainable growth persist," the Fed said. "Despite tentative evidence of a slowing in certain interest-sensitive sectors of the economy and of accelerating productivity, the expansion of activity continues in excess of the economy's growth potential. As a consequence, the pool of available workers willing to take jobs has been drawn down further in recent months, a trend that must eventually be contained if inflationary imbalances are to remain in check and economic expansion continue," the Fed said. 

 "Today's increase in the federal funds rate, together with the policy actions in June and August and the firming of conditions more generally in U.S. financial markets over the course of the year, should markedly diminish the risk of inflation going forward. As a consequence, the directive the Federal Open Market Committee adopted is symmetrical with regard to the outlook for policy over the near term," the Fed said. 

 Following the Fed's increase in the fed-funds target and discount rate, major banks announced increases in their prime rates to 8.5% from 8.25%. 

 Economists were divided on whether the Fed would tighten policy and whether it needed to. Many economists said a rate rise would be unjustified in traditional terms because the economy generally still enjoys noninflationary growth driven by productivity gains. The economy expanded at a very strong annual 4.8% clip in the third quarter but with few signs of inflation pressures, in part because of a 4.2% jump in third-quarter productivity. Productivity gains allow businesses to hold the line on prices while paying higher wages. 

 The accelerating growth in productivity has so far kept inflation in check by offsetting price pressures often caused by tight labor markets and strong consumer spending, two of the other hallmarks of the current economic picture. 

 Other recent inflation measures, such as the gross domestic product price deflator and average hourly wages, suggest that, at a minimum, the Fed hasn't fallen behind the curve on fighting inflation. 

 However, there were other arguments in favor of a rate hike. 

 For one, the job market remains very tight. The jobless rate fell to a 30-year low of 4.1% last month, which could lead to wage pressures down the road. The Fed remains worried that wage gains could translate into higher prices for consumers, especially if productivity gains slow. 

 And while recent inflationary upticks in crude oil and intermediate goods have yet to show up at the consumer level, the government said last week that wholesale prices excluding food and energy rose a greater-than-expected 0.3% in October - lending further ammunition to those who thought a pre-emptive strike against inflation was justified. 

 Also, Tuesday's meeting was thought to be the Fed's last chance this year to move against any inflation buildup. The central bank was thought to likely be reluctant to tighten credit at its December meeting amid the holiday shopping season and year 2000 concerns. The year 2000 computer problem is expected to create some distortions to economic numbers, making it tough for central bankers to sift through data next month and in early 2000. 

 If the Fed stood pat Tuesday and in December, that would have left the FOMC's February meeting as the next opportunity for it to raise rates - a wait that some thought could have put the Fed behind the curve in fighting inflation. 

 Some Fed watchers said the central bank could indeed afford one more rate rise this year without jeopardizing the economy or the health of the stock market, itself a big contributor to growth through the so-called wealth effect. 

 "There are very legitimate arguments that can be made for either case right now," Anthony Karydakis, senior financial economist at Banc One Capital Markets, told The Wall Street Journal a day before the Fed meeting. 

 Indeed, for the first time in recent memory, economists were split about the outcome of a Fed meeting. A survey by Dow Jones Newswires and CNBC found that 15 of 28 firms that trade directly with the Fed - so-called primary dealers - predicted the central bank would raise the target on the federal-funds rate by 0.25 percentage point. 

 Copyright (c) 1999 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved. 
   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nitv : Interview   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument djon000020020330dvbg00h39  



 HD Argentine Official:Public Debt Up ARS90 Million On US Fed Impact    WC141 words   PD16 November 1999   ET23:52   SNDow Jones International News   SCDJI   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP BUENOS AIRES-(Dow Jones)- Argentina's National Director of Credit Negotiation Federico Molina said Tuesday the U.S. Federal Reserve's decision to raise interest rates means a 90-million-pesos ($1=ARS1) net increase in the country's national public-sector debt. 

 The Federal Reserve earlier Tuesday decided to raise its key funds rate a quarter percentage point to 5.5%. 
   TD "Excluding reserves, the net increase would be ARS150 million," said Molina. "But debt financing costs won't be affected because the market had already priced in another interest rate increase." 


According to the latest official data available, Argentina's
public-sector debt totaled a net ARS107.35 billion in the nine months
through Sept. 30.
   -By Camilla Gallagher; Dow Jones Newswires; (5411)4313-1918;
cgallagher@ap.org

   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m11 : Equity Markets | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REarg : Argentina | lamz : Latin America | namz : North America | samz : South America | usa : United States   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument dji0000020010826dvbg081zk  



 HD US Bond Outlook: Fed Uncertainty Still Hangs Over  Market    WC801 words   PD16 November 1999   ET21:44   SNDow Jones International News   SCDJI   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- The Federal Reserve Tuesday gave investors the rate increase at least some of them had been expecting. 

 But it failed to convince anyone - especially in the fixed-income sector - that the cycle of rate hikes has been completed. 
   TD The uncertainty about further rate increases down the road took the wind out of bonds even as equity investors moved on to other news. Currency investors, meanwhile, traded the dollar in the direction of stocks, eventually settling the currency slightly stronger on the day. 

 "I don't think anyone can say with certainty" that the Fed is through after Tuesday, said Paul Kasriel, chief domestic economist at The Northern Trust Co. 

 Sure enough, most bonds enjoyed only a flash-in-the pan rally in the moments after the Fed said at 2:15 p.m. EST that it was raising its target for the Federal funds rate - a key overnight bank lending rate that is a proxy for short-term rates - by a quarter percentage point to 5.5% and dropping its predilection ("bias" in Fed-speak) toward raising rates again. The Fed also bumped up the discount rate - a largely symbolic rate for banks borrowing from the Fed - by a quarter point to 5%. 

 Within half an hour, Treasurys prices were all back in negative territory, and the 30-year bond, which had been yielding around 6% for most of the day, had crept back to 6.05%. 

 By about 3:30 p.m, the 30-year was down 16/32 to 100 28/32 to yield 6.06%. 

 Speculators who'd been betting on a lasting rally after the Fed move soon began selling, adding to the pressure on Treasurys. 

 Some other bonds fared a little better. Yields on corporate bonds, for example, edged a little closer to Treasurys on anticipation that those securities will outperform the government sector for the rest of the year. Most company bond yields were quoted 0.01 to 0.02 percentage tighter late Tuesday afternoon. 


         'Second Degree' Tightening Bias



The Fed's said in a statement that the Fed funds rate increase
"together with the policy actions in June and August and the firming of
conditions more generally in U.S. financial markets over the course of
the year, should markedly diminish the risk of inflation going forward."



But it also said that "despite tentative evidence of a slowing in
certain interest-rate sectors of the economy and of accelerating
productivity, the expansion of activity continues in excess of the
economy's growth potential." It also noted that the labor market remains
tight.



Larry Hatheway, global head of strategy for fixed-income and foreign
exchange at Warburg Dillon Read, called the Fed's statement a mixed
message that was the equivalent of a "second-degree" bias to tighten.



The announcement contains "hawkish statements that suggest the Fed may
have to move again," Hatheway said.



Most observers don't expect the Fed to raise rates again at its final
1999 meeting in December. Indeed, the central bank virtually guaranteed
that Tuesday by dropping its tightening bias.



But it's the possibility of more rate increases next year that
fixed-income investors will continue to focus on, analysts agreed.



And while most investors generally applaud the Fed's effort to stop
inflation before it starts, that doesn't mean they're ready to bid up
bonds again.



"Most of the fact that the Fed ... is going to be ahead of the
(inflation) curve has been priced into the marketplace," Scott Graham,
co-head government trader at Prudential Securities Inc., said just
before the Fed's move was announced.



Graham predicted that a 6% bond yield will be "probably as good as
we're going to see" for the rest of the year.



In the futures markets, where some contracts give insight into rate
expectations, the consensus view was that rates would climb again,
probably sometime around March.



Dealing in Fed funds futures late in Chicago, for example, showed that
investors anticipated another rate increase to be likely toward the end
of the first quarter.



And Eurodollar futures were pricing in another rate hike by the June
2000 Fed policy meeting.



          Latin American Bonds Hold In



Among other markets still open after the Fed's announcement, some of
Latin America's benchmark sovereign bonds were holding in.



Brazilian C-bonds, for example, were up 1/4 to 70 5/8 in late trading.



Fixed-income investors there - perhaps a little more upbeat than their
North American counterparts - were hoping the Fed is through tweaking
rates for the foreseeable future, traders said.



-By Gene Colter, Dow Jones Newswires 201.938.2068



(Brian Blackstone, Michael Casey, John Montgomery, Angela Pruitt and
Tom Sullivan contributed to this article)

   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m11 : Equity Markets | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument dji0000020010826dvbg081sl  



 HD Bradys Open A Bit Higher As Market Awaits FOMC Decision    WC334 words   PD16 November 1999   ET14:42   SNDow Jones International News   SCDJI   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- Brady bonds were opening slightly higher Tuesday on extremely thin volume with trading still slack ahead of the U.S. Federal Reserve's interest-rate decision. 

 The Federal Open Market Committee meets later in the session to decide whether economic conditions merit an interest-rate hike. Its decision is expected to be announced at 2:15 p.m. EST (1915 GMT). 
   TD "People are concerned (about the meeting's outcome), but there also seems to be a bit of ambivalence," a London-based trader said. 

 Russia's Soviet-era debt was still better bid Tuesday on hopes that the country will swap its defaulted debt for Eurobonds. 

 Russia PRINs were starting the New York session up 3/8 to 11 7/8 bid, while IANs were 1/8 higher to 14 5/8 bid. 

 The London Club of sovereign creditors was meeting with Russian officials in Frankfurt Tuesday, and although no information was out on the meetings, expectations were still high. 

 Among Latin American issues, Brazilian, Mexican and Venezuelan debt instruments were firmer. 

 Brazil's benchmark C-bonds were opening 1/8 higher to 70 1/2 bid. Brazilian markets were closed Monday for a holiday. 

 Mexico Pars were up 3/8 to 78 bid, and Venezuela DCBs were 1/8 higher to 81 5/8 bid, as both countries benefited from strong oil prices. 

 Argentine bonds were still underperforming the market. The country's decision Monday to reopen its global bonds due 2017 sent many Argentine bonds lower. 

 The globals due 2017 were opening almost flat Tuesday at 96 1/8 bid, while Argentina's Eurobonds due 2027 were down 3/4 to 84 1/4 bid. 

 Meanwhile, the J.P. Morgan Emerging Markets Bond Index, or EMBI, narrowed about nine basis points to about 909 basis points over comparable U.S. Treasurys. 


-By Amy Guthrie, Dow Jones Newswires; 201-938-2225;
    amy.guthrie@dowjones.com

   RF1179 1810 4071   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m11 : Equity Markets | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REarg : Argentina | asiaz : Asia | braz : Brazil | camz : Central America | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | eeurz : Central/Eastern Europe | eurz : Europe | lamz : Latin America | mex : Mexico | namz : North America | russ : Russia | samz : South America | usa : United States | ussrz : CIS Countries | ven : Venezuela   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument dji0000020010826dvbg08165  



 HD POINT OF VIEW: Fed To Now Sit Back, Satisfied With Work    BY By Neal Lipschutz    WC451 words   PD16 November 1999   ET20:59   SNDow Jones News Service   SCDJ   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP A Dow Jones Newswires Column 

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- The Federal Reserve decided to take its opportunity to impose a virtually risk-free rise in interest rates and expressed satisfaction with its series of rate hikes. 
   TD In the all important commentary that accompanied the Fed's decision to raise the federal funds target rate by 25 basis points (along with a less newsworthy 25 basis point increase in the discount rate), the Fed said its handiwork that now features three interest rate increases since June "should markedly diminish the risk of inflation going forward." In other words, we've done the job for now. 

 As a result, it adopted a "symmetrical," or neutral stance toward near-term policy. It seems the Fed is done for the year, an early holiday vacation in store. 

 But that doesn't mean the Fed is ready to rest on its laurels. 

 If the mantra of the real estate world is location, location, location, the song of the Alan Greenpsan-led Fed has been labor, labor, labor. Greenspan and other Fed policy makers have numerous times publicly worried about the implications of consistently tight labor markets. 

 The Fed said, while paying homage to generally contained cost pressures and accelerating productivity, that "the pool of available workers willing to take jobs has been drawn down further in recent months, a trend that must eventually be contained if further inflationary imbalances are to remain in check and economic expansion continue." 

 Productivity gains, in other words, can only go so far. If the rapid pace of job creation continues, at some point an inflationary impact on wages just has to appear. 

 Despite recent mild inflation data, the Fed had all sorts of reasons to raise interest rates at Tuesday's meeting and almost no downside risk. Another quarter-point on interest rates isn't going to significantly stifle this economy or even muzzle stock market bulls. But it does keep the Fed's reputation as a pro-active, ahead-of-the-curve inflation fighter intact. And appearances in the monetary policy waltz are often more important influences on the psyches of market participants and business people whose decisions ultimately drive the economy than the concrete consequences of the Fed's rate decisions. 


A central bank can't be too cautious about inflation, especially if
recessionary risk from its actions hasn't even entered the picture. So
the Fed wisely took the free pass markets and economic circumstances
handed it and Tuesday dropped a bit more insurance into its
inflation-fighting portfolio.
- By Neal Lipschutz, Dow Jones Newswires, (201) 938-5152
 neal.lipschutz@dowjones.com

   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument dj00000020010827dvbg07clz  



 HD REPEAT&CORRECT:Tsys Down After FOMC Raises Rates;30Y -13/32    BY By Steven Vames    WC802 words   PD16 November 1999   ET22:16   SNCapital Markets Report   SCCM   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- The Federal Reserve raised its key interest rate Tuesday, causing Treasurys prices to decline as investors reversed some of the recent rally in bond prices. 

 At 3:50 p.m. EST, the benchmark 30-year Treasury was at 100 31/32, down 13/32, to yield 6.05%. At the Chicago Board of Trade, the December bond futures contract closed at 114-21, down 8/32. 
   TD The Federal Reserve raised the target federal funds rate by 0.25 percentage point to 5.50% and also raised its discount lending rate by 0.25 percentage point to 5%. It also switched to a so-called "neutral bias" toward further rate movements. 

 The news initially brought the yield on the benchmark 30-year bond below 6% for the first time in about seven weeks, but the gains swiftly turned to losses as speculative investors jumped on the selling bandwagon. 

 Analysts said that while the news reversed some of the recent strength in Treasurys, market fundamentals are still strong. 

 "Any time the Fed moves, you get a knee-jerk, negative reaction," said Kevin Flanagan, money market economist at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter & Co. in New York. 

 But it's a positive development for bonds in a medium term, because "the Fed is showing the fact that they are preemptive - they are not waiting for inflation to show up in the official numbers," he said. 

 "They're done for now - at least they're done for calendar year 1999." he added. 

 While the Fed moved its official bias to neutral, its statement was largely seen as an eloquent version of saying it is still wary of upside risks to the economy - and that there may need to be further rate hikes if economic activity does not slow significantly. 

 "I don't think anyone can say with certainty" that Tuesday's move is the last of the cycle, said Paul Kasriel, chief domestic economist at The Northern Trust Co., who expects the Fed will hike rates again next spring. 

 In its statement, the Fed bluntly stated that "the expansion of activity continues in excess of the economy's growth potential" and added the tight labor market "must eventually be contained if inflationary imbalances are to remain in check and economic expansion to continue." 


According to Donald Fine, chief market analyst at Chase Asset
Management, "the Fed is clearly concerned that there could be further
inflationary pressures. They need to see convincing evidence that the
economy is slowing before that concern lets up."
   5 7/8%   2-year 100  3/32  dn   3/32   5.81%
   5 7/8%   5-year  99 29/32  dn   6/32   5.90%
   6    %  10-year 100 11/32  dn   7/32   5.92%
   6 1/8%  30-year 100 31/32  dn  13/32   6.05%



2-30-Yr Yield Spread: 24 BPS Vs 25 BPS



(In an item that moved at about 4:00 p.m. EST (2100 GMT), the size of
the FOMC increases in its fed funds target rate and discount rate was
misstated.)



Reacting to the rate hike, the Treasurys yield curve flattened
slightly - with the spread between the 2-year and 30-year Treasurys
narrowing to a 14-month low of 21 basis points. However, the spread
moved out later in the day and ended only slightly lower. The gap is
currently around 24 basis points, compared to 25 basis points late
Monday.



However, analysts expect that the recent trend toward a flatter yield
curve will persist. That comes as investors remain confident in the
Fed's ability as a preemptive inflation-fighter, which minimizes the
perceived risk of longer-maturity securities.



"Most of the fact that the Fed ... is going to be ahead of the
(inflation) curve has been priced into the marketplace," Scott Graham,
co-head government trader at Prudential Securities., said just before
the Fed's move was announced.



In the futures markets, where some contracts give insight into rate
expectations, the consensus view was that rates would climb again,
probably some time around March.



Trading in fed funds futures late in Chicago, for example, showed that
investors anticipated another rate increase to be likely around the end
of the first quarter of 2000.



Focusing on economic fundamentals, some economists agreed with the
futures traders. Elliott Platt, chief economist at Donaldson, Lufkin &
Jenrette, said the Fed would likely need to tighten rates again in March
and then again in late June or August. In making the prediction, he
cited a tight labor market, still rising stock markets and the risk of a
pickup in consumer inflation.



-Steven Vames; Dow Jones Newswires; 201-938-4192;
steven.vames@dowjones.com

   RF1079 20715 4041   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument cm00000020010826dvbg01n5x  



 HD BondBiz: After the FOMC, Lower Rates. Just be Patient    BY By Greg Kitter    WC971 words   PD16 November 1999   ET17:46   SNCapital Markets Report   SCCM   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP A Dow Jones Newswires Column 

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- If there were any hint of "negative vibes" in the cash market this morning, it was difficult to tell. Given the airplay attributed to today's FOMC meeting, one would think there would be little movement in anything until the shoes are dropped later this afternoon. 
   TD But the stock market seems to be paying Greenspan & Co. little mind. At late morning, the DJIA was ahead by more than 95 points (OK, a point isn't worth as much as it used to be, but 80 points still isn't chickenfeed), and the composite was up about 41 points. That's worth about 180 DJIA points. 

 Treasurys are also higher in price, albeit not as dramatically as stocks. The long bond is flirting with 6%, with the yield spread between two- and 30-year Treasurys around 24 basis points and the yield spread between 3-month and 30-year Treasurys about 76 basis points. Both of these numbers are statistically very low relative to the past few months. 

 You would think, given my bullish predilection, I would be snorting (oops, I mean happy). Admittedly, I'm not sad. Just a little concerned. With year-end on the horizon and another two-year auction a little more than a week away, not to mention the possibility that there will be no rise, but a tightening bias (that always seems to irritate weak longs despite the seemingly historically innocuous nature of the statement), I don't think the direction of rates is straight down from here. 

 There is also the issue of curve flattening. True, I've been talking about a further flattening bias. But the upcoming year-end trader accountability (something I'm familiar with) provides some strong profit-taking incentives for those souls that have been in a curve flattening bias for the past few weeks. While I don't think there will be significant steepening, we may see some increasing steepening, particularly as we get closer to year end. My inclination is to remain positioned for further flattening. But be prepared for the possibility of a little heat. 

 The industrial production/capacity utilization reports this morning continued to reflect solid gains, while there remained little evidence of inflation. Keep in mind that the strong readings for industrial production (0.7%, the highest since March) and capacity utilization (80.7%, the highest this year) are more a function of a rebound from the depressed, hurricane-torn September. Additionally, capacity utilization is a far cry from the 86% or so number required to beginning worrying about impact on price pressures. 

 Sooooooo, bottom line is the markets don't seem to be as concerned about the FOMC pronouncement as the soothsayers attempting to predict the outcome. Not that surprising given the soothsayers rely on this stuff to justify their existence. That being said, I don't want to undermine or underplay the psychological significance of today's action or inaction. The whole world is waiting to hear what the Federal Reserve thinks about inflation and interest rates, and monetary policy. 

 The recent surveys I've heard have the tightening/no tightening decision pretty close to 50-50. I'm sticking with the tightening routine simply because I think there's more than a higher funds rate and more expensive borrowing costs at stake here. I believe the Fed needs to tighten to complete the rescinding of the 75 basis points it gave us last autumn. Rates were cut then to head off a potential financial disaster. Now, with people concerned about inflation potential, what better timing than to do the deed with a strong economy that can absorb the mild 25 basis points and no overt signs of inflation? 

 The interest-rate options pit are showing a little uneasiness over the tightening. At the money vols in both the March T-Bond and the December Eurodollar are up slightly over recent days. The December Bond option is currently at 14+%. But the expiration date is this Thursday, so the price sensitivity is extremely high. 


U.S. Treasury Rich/Cheap Analysis - 11/15, 3 P.M.
     3m    6m   1y    2y    5y   10y    30y    BPV @1mln
3m   xxx 18.2  24.8  52.0  60.3  67.1   77.5       22.81
6m  -0.5  xxx   6.6  33.8  42.1  48.9   59.3       46.15
1y  -1.4 -1.4   xxx  27.2  35.5  42.3   52.7       90.50
2y  -2.2 -2.4  -2.7   xxx   8.3  15.1   25.5      182.74
5y  -2.4 -2.5  -3.0  -2.4   xxx   6.8   17.2      427.96
10y -2.5 -2.7  -3.1  -2.9  -1.6   xxx   10.4      734.79
30y -2.5 -2.6  -3.1  -2.6  -1.8  -1.5    xxx    1,387.91



Grid Explanation: The top half of the grid is the yield spreads
between the active or on-the-run U.S. Treasury issues. The bottom half
is the difference between the current spread and its three-month
average, all divided by the three-month standard deviation of the
spread. The resulting measure is the number of STDs over or under the
three-month mean of the spread. For further information call or e-mail
me.



(Subscribers can find BondBiz around 11:45 a.m. EDT on Telerate pages
[4183] or [1099], Bloomberg [DJNI DJ4183], or other DJ products by
searching the code N/POV.



Greg Kitter, a columnist for Dow Jones Newswires, is a former
economist, trader and marketer of fixed-income cash and derivatives
products. Tell him what you think at 201-938-2153, or
greg.kitter@dowjones.com

   RF1099 4183   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument cm00000020010826dvbg01n34  



 HD Treasurys Lower After FOMC Raises Rates; 30-Yr Down 13/32    BY By Steven Vames    WC495 words   PD16 November 1999   ET22:00   SNCapital Markets Report   SCCM   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- The Federal Reserve raised its key interest rate Tuesday, causing Treasurys prices to decline as investors reversed some of the recent rally in bond prices. 

 At 3:50 p.m. EST, the benchmark 30-year Treasury was at 100 31/32, down 13/32, to yield 6.05%. At the Chicago Board of Trade, the December bond futures contract closed at 114-21, down 8/32. 
   TD The Federal Reserve raised the target federal funds rate by 0.25% to 5.50% and also raised its discount lending rate by 0.25% to 5%. It also switched to a so-called "neutral bias" toward further rate movements. 

 The news initially brought the yield on the benchmark 30-year bond below 6% for the first time in about seven weeks, but the gains swiftly turned to losses as speculative investors jumped on the selling bandwagon. 

 Analysts said that while the news reversed some of the recent strength in Treasurys, market fundamentals are still strong. 

 "Any time the Fed moves, you get a knee-jerk, negative reaction," said Kevin Flanagan, money market economist at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter & Co. in New York. 

 But it's a positive development for bonds in a medium term, because "the Fed is showing the fact that they are preemptive - they are not waiting for inflation to show up in the official numbers," he said. 

 "They're done for now - at least they're done for calendar year 1999." he added. 

 While the Fed moved its official bias to neutral, its statement was largely seen as an eloquent version of saying it is still wary of upside risks to the economy - and that there may need to be further rate hikes if economic activity does not slow significantly. 

 "I don't think anyone can say with certainty" that Tuesday's move is the last of the cycle, said Paul Kasriel, chief domestic economist at The Northern Trust Co., who expects the Fed will hike rates again next spring. 

 In its statement, the Fed bluntly stated that "the expansion of activity continues in excess of the economy's growth potential" and added the tight labor market "must eventually be contained if inflationary imbalances are to remain in check and economic expansion to continue." 


According to Donald Fine, chief market analyst at Chase Asset
Management, "the Fed is clearly concerned that there could be further
inflationary pressures. They need to see convincing evidence that the
economy is slowing before that concern lets up."
   5 7/8%   2-year 100  3/32  dn   3/32   5.81%
   5 7/8%   5-year  99 29/32  dn   6/32   5.90%
   6    %  10-year 100 11/32  dn   7/32   5.92%
   6 1/8%  30-year 100 31/32  dn  13/32   6.05%



2-30-Yr Yield Spread: 24 BPS Vs 25 BPS

   RF1079 20715 4041   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument cm00000020010826dvbg01n5r  



 HD Bradys Open A Bit Higher As Market Awaits FOMC Decision    WC334 words   PD16 November 1999   ET14:42   SNCapital Markets Report   SCCM   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- Brady bonds were opening slightly higher Tuesday on extremely thin volume with trading still slack ahead of the U.S. Federal Reserve's interest-rate decision. 

 The Federal Open Market Committee meets later in the session to decide whether economic conditions merit an interest-rate hike. Its decision is expected to be announced at 2:15 p.m. EST (1915 GMT). 
   TD "People are concerned (about the meeting's outcome), but there also seems to be a bit of ambivalence," a London-based trader said. 

 Russia's Soviet-era debt was still better bid Tuesday on hopes that the country will swap its defaulted debt for Eurobonds. 

 Russia PRINs were starting the New York session up 3/8 to 11 7/8 bid, while IANs were 1/8 higher to 14 5/8 bid. 

 The London Club of sovereign creditors was meeting with Russian officials in Frankfurt Tuesday, and although no information was out on the meetings, expectations were still high. 

 Among Latin American issues, Brazilian, Mexican and Venezuelan debt instruments were firmer. 

 Brazil's benchmark C-bonds were opening 1/8 higher to 70 1/2 bid. Brazilian markets were closed Monday for a holiday. 

 Mexico Pars were up 3/8 to 78 bid, and Venezuela DCBs were 1/8 higher to 81 5/8 bid, as both countries benefited from strong oil prices. 

 Argentine bonds were still underperforming the market. The country's decision Monday to reopen its global bonds due 2017 sent many Argentine bonds lower. 

 The globals due 2017 were opening almost flat Tuesday at 96 1/8 bid, while Argentina's Eurobonds due 2027 were down 3/4 to 84 1/4 bid. 

 Meanwhile, the J.P. Morgan Emerging Markets Bond Index, or EMBI, narrowed about nine basis points to about 909 basis points over comparable U.S. Treasurys. 


-By Amy Guthrie, Dow Jones Newswires; 201-938-2225;
    amy.guthrie@dowjones.com

   RF1179 1810 4071   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REarg : Argentina | asiaz : Asia | braz : Brazil | camz : Central America | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | eeurz : Central/Eastern Europe | eurz : Europe | lamz : Latin America | mex : Mexico | namz : North America | russ : Russia | samz : South America | usa : United States | ussrz : CIS Countries | ven : Venezuela   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument cm00000020010826dvbg01n0u  
 Page 1 of 1      2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.


 

 Page 1      2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.

