 


 SE Business    HD FED HIKES RATES TO 5.75%: BANKS BOOST PRIME RATE; MARKETS RESPOND WITH YAWN    BY By BETH PISKORA    WC622 words   PD3 February 2000   SNNew York Post   SCNYPO   PG44   LAEnglish   CY Copyright (c) 2000, N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved. 
   LP The Fed moved, but the markets didn't. 

 The Federal Reserve met yesterday and imposed a long-expected quarter-point increase in short-term interest rates, bringing them to 5.75 percent. It was the fourth rate increase since June, and brings rates to their highest level in four years. 
   TD "The Fed's not trying to kill the economy," said Jim Glassman, chief economist at Chase Securities. "They're just trying to cool it." 

 The effect of the Fed rate hike will be felt immediately in consumers' wallets, though. 

 Most major banks -- including New York City's biggest, Citibank and Chase Manhattan -- paralleled the rate hike by upping the prime rate they use to calculate interest charges for mortgages and credit cards. 

 "If you have an adjustable rate mortage or a credit card linked to the prime rate, you can expect your interest rate to go up in the next adjustment period," said Tom Block, director of the secondary market for Mortgageit.com, an online originator of mortgage loans. 

 But if you're shopping for a new mortgage now, you may actually see rates drop slightly in the next week or two, as most mortgage lenders had priced in a 50 basis point increase from the Fed. 

 Equity markets, which had already priced in the rate increase, barely budged. 

 The Dow Jones industrial average fell 37.85, or 0.34 percent, to 11,003.20. 

 The technology-packed Nasdaq composite index gained 21.98, or 0.54 percent, to 4,073.96. 

 The S&P 500 lost 0.16, or 0.01 percent, to 1,409.12. 

 All three of these major averages have shown much greater intraday volatility -- often closing up or down more than 100 points per day -- in recent weeks. 

 But Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan had hinted that a quarter-point increase was in the cards in part because he and other Fed members continue to fret about wealth and wage inflation, and in part because the economy is still growing quickly. That's remarkable because the United States just entered the 107th month of economic expansion. 

 "It's impossible to criticize Alan Greenspan because he's done such a fantastic job," said John Ladensack, the senior vice president of Schwab's capital markets and trading group. "What he said yesterday is that the Fed is going to remain vigilant, but not so much so to knock the economy into recession. The key is the Fed's bias, which said that inflation is the concern." 

 Still, economists and strategists alike say this Fed tightening may be just the first of the year, with a second quarter-point hike coming as soon as the March meeting of the Fed's Open Market Committee. 

 "The hike may mollify inflation hawks only temporarily," said Thomas McManus, strategist at Banc of America Securities. 

 And it may quiet equity investors for just a short while before they, too, start fretting about the next Fed meeting. 

 That's why McManus advised his clients yesterday to take 5 percent of their money out of equities and move it into bonds. 

 The yield on the 30-year Treasury slid 12 basis points to 6.29 percent yesterday, the lowest level since Dec. 13. Bond prices continued their week-long rally. 

 The most actively traded stocks after the Fed announcement were America Online, up $5.25 to $60.50; Cisco Systems, down $3.94 to $113.88; and Citigroup, down 50 cents to $57.75. 
   ART <BD+>MR. COOL:<BD->Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan raised short-term interest rates yesterday in an attempt to cool the hot economy. AP    INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States | use : Northeast U.S. | usny : New York   ANDocument nypo000020010809dw23002pa  

HDAnalysis:  Federal Reserve  raises interest rates with warning another increase is coming in March   WC538 words   PD3 February 2000   SNNBC News: Today   SCTODA   LAEnglish   CY(c) Copyright 2000, NBC Universal Inc. All Rights Reserved.    
   LPMATT LAUER, co-host:

It just got more expensive to borrow money and buy a house. That's because the Federal Reserve raised interest rates a quarter percent on Wednesday with a warning that another increase will come in March. Ron Insana covers the markets for CNBC.
   TDRon, good morning.

RON INSANA reporting:

Good morning, Matt.

LAUER: Worst-kept secret in the economic world. We knew this was going to happen. Was there any surprise in this?

INSANA: Absolutely not. The Fed did exactly what was expected. It raised two key short-term interest rates by a quarter point and, again, issued that warning that inflation remains the biggest risk.

LAUER: Why are they so concerned about inflation? What causes inflation to go up?

INSANA: Well, in the classical model, and we haven't seen this for quite some time, when workers get scarce, when the labor market gets very tight, employers have to scramble to find people to work for them, so they're willing to pay higher and higher wages. Those people who get the higher wages are then confident enough in their future to go out and spend on all kinds of goods and services, regardless of price, and that drives prices up and creates what we call inflation.

LAUER: And raising interest rates dampens that how?

INSANA: Well, it slows the economy down. Makes it more difficult to borrow money. It causes consumers to pull back on purchases of homes, cars, and other goods and services. Slows the economy down, and creates a little more slack in the workplace than used to be there.

LAUER: There wasn't a huge reaction to this on Wall Street yesterday. Is that because Wall Street had already been reacting to this in the previous couple of weeks?

INSANA: Well, Wall Street's behaving rather interestingly of late. In the last four Fed rate increases we've seen virtually no reaction from the stock market, which is unusual. But it appears that a lot of folks think the economy will continue strong without any inflation. So stock prices can go up regardless of what the Fed does.

LAUER: When we talk about these interest rate increases, how does the average consumer feel this in the next month or so?

INSANA: Not much. The average credit card rate might go up by a dollar or so a month with a quarter point hike. The real question is that if market interest rates should continue to go up, that could slow down housing by making mortgages more expensive. But that remains to be seen.

LAUER: Short-term you still think the market will remain fairly stable?

INSANA: It looks OK. I mean, volatility's been the watchword for the year 2000. So you can't expect the market to just calm down automatically. Could still see a lot of brig--big surprise swings.

LAUER: All right, Ron, thanks very much.

INSANA: Sure.

LAUER: And, by the way, of course, you can follow the markets all day long on CNBC on cable. It is 7:15. Once again here's Katie.

KATIE COURIC, co-host:

Matt, thanks.
   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1202 : Interest Rates | ntra : Transcript | nanl : Analysis | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBBurrelle's Information Services   ANDocument TODA000020081125dw23000ot  



 HD Greenspan raises US  interest rate  to 5.75%    WC231 words   PD3 February 2000   SNThe Express   SCTHEEXP   LAEnglish   CY Copyright (C) 2000 The Express; Source: World Reporter (TM) 
   LP America's central bank raised interest rates for the fourth time in seven months last night to try to slow an economy growing too fast for comfort. 

 The widely anticipated increase of a quarter of 1 per cent to 5.75 per cent in a key lending rate was among the first in what is expected to be a new series of rate boosts around the world. 
   TD The Bank of England, which raised its base rate to 5.75 per cent at the start of January, could follow with another increase next week, according to economists. 

 The announcement of the US rate increase sparked at least a short-term relief rally on Wall Street, which had been worried that Federal Reserve chairman Alan Greenspan might opt for a half a per cent increase. The giant US economy, pushed along by the booming share market, is in its longest-ever expansion. It is growing at an annual rate of 5.8 per cent, seen by many economists as a rate fast enough to spark inflation. 

 Feel-good Americans, with wages rising faster than inflation, have spent money faster than they have been earning it.Economists are predicting Greenspan might have to raise rates at least twice more before mid-year to dampen consumer demand and put the brakes firmly on the runaway share market. 
   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | eec : European Union | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations   REeurz : Europe | namz : North America | uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | weurz : Western Europe   IPC52111 | 6011   IPDBank_of_England | Economic News | Interest Rates | Economic Indicators | Forecasts & Predictions | General News | United Kingdom, Europe~GB | United States of America, Americas~US | Europe | European Union | Western Europe | Americas | North America | Pacific Rim | Federal_Reserve_USA | Federal Reserve Banks | Monetary Authorities - Central Bank   ANDocument theexp0020010805dw23002gt  



 HD Treasury Market Rallies As Investors Scramble To Buy Long Bond, Notes    WC640 words   PD3 February 2000   ET15:07   SNDow Jones Business News   SCDJON   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- Long-term Treasurys prices rose sharply, led by furious buying in the 30-year bond on the perception that the supply of bonds will shrink substantially as the government cuts back on borrowing and retires many outstanding debt issues. Analysts said the 30-year bond was caught in a dramatic short squeeze, though buying also was solid among intermediate-term government securities. 

 Late in Thursday's session, the price of the 30-year bond was up nearly two points, pulling its yield - which moves inversely to the price - down to 6.13% from 6.28% late Wednesday. The Treasury's latest refunding announcement calls for just $10 billion in new 30-year bonds - less than Wall Street had been expecting. 
   TD As a result, there's a growing realization that 30-year bond may be losing its status as the yardstick for the U.S. debt market. 

 "The 10-year note will become the benchmark of the yield curve " in the U.S., said Michael Strauss, managing director at Commonfund, which oversees about $23 billion for educational institutions. 

 In fact, Merrill Lynch is already advising its clients to start examining pricing 30-year corporate debt off of the 10-year Treasury, said William Cunningham, its senior corporate bond strategist. 

 The 10-year note climbed 31/32, reducing its yield to 6.43% from 6.57%. The two-year note was up 1/8 to yield 6.51%. 

 The prospect of reduced supplies of longer-term Treasurys, coupled with some fundamental improvement in the economy and the interest-rate outlook, left some traders sitting on inopportune positions in fixed-income securities, setting off the scramble that has resulted in wild price swings for long Treasurys. 

 A New York Federal Reserve spokesman denied a midday rumor that the Fed had called a special meeting with primary Treasurys dealers to discuss the volatility. The spokesman added that the Fed doesn't normally comment on market rumors but in this case wanted to put the rumor to rest as "completely unfounded." There also were rumors that some banks and brokerage houses could be hurt by losses on Treasury holdings. 

 The spectacular gains made by the 30-year bond have caused a further inversion in the yield curve. The bond is now yielding nearly 2/5 percentage point less than the two-year note. 

 "I've never seen anything like this before," observed Michael Ryan, senior fixed-income strategist at PaineWebber. 

 In a more normal environment, rates of return rise as the maturities increase. Most market experts attribute the inversion in the yield curve to the dwindling supply of long-term Treasurys. 

 John Spinello, chief government strategist at Merrill Lynch, said the powerful buying in the 30-year bond yesterday and today came as investors who were betting on a price decline were forced to scramble to cover their positions. 

 Some investors had expected the bond's price to fall after its recent strength, but that line of thinking was scuttled by Wednesday's announcement that the Treasury would further reduce debt outstanding. 

 Separately, the Senate voted 89 to four to confirm Alan Greenspan to a fourth term as head of the Fed. 

 Still ahead for the market's consideration is Friday morning's release of the January employment report from the Labor Department. The median forecast of 16 economists polled by Dow Jones Newswires and CNBC is for a 255,000 rise in nonfarm payrolls. That would be less than December's 315,000 gain, but above the six-month average of 238,000. 

 The jobless rate is seen falling a tenth of a point to 4%, while average hourly earnings are seen matching December's 0.4% gain. 

 Copyright (c) 2000 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument djon000020020330dw23013qw  



 HD 'Short Squeeze'/Bond - 2: Swaps Surge, Pricing Tough    WC596 words   PD3 February 2000   ET16:10   SNDow Jones International News   SCDJI   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LPInterest-rate swap spreads exploded on the long bond rally. The difference between 10-year interest rate swaps and comparable Treasurys jumped out to about 0.96 percentage point from 0.88 Wednesday, before settling back to 0.94. 

 When dealers use Treasurys to hedge other fixed-income assets, they sometimes use the swaps market to offset the interest-rate risk. At times like this, that strategy puts swap spreads under extreme pressure. 
   TD The pain was also being felt elsewhere in the credit markets. 

 For example, yields on corporate bonds were widening in relation to Treasurys, with yields on some big benchmark issues climbing 15 to 20 basis points or even more, dealers said. 

 And bankers were having difficulty quoting a price on at least one important new deal: Dealers said the 30-year tranche of a three-part offer from Vodafone Airtouch PLC (U.VOD) may have to be quoted compared to the deal's 10-year tranche rather than the comparable Treasury bond because of the volatility in the long end. 


            'Flatteners' Get Whacked



One factor behind Thursday's sharp move is that a number of investors
had been hanging on to so-called "flattening" positions, some of which
were put on when the curve first started to invert in mid-January.



This was a bet that conventional economics would drive the price for
longer-dated bonds lower - and thus, their yields higher - while the
opposite would happen at the short end of the curve.



As that reversion failed to materialize this week and as the inversion
has become even deeper, investors have been scrambling to cover their
short positions in the 30-year bond, thereby distorting the shape of the
curve even further.



That's the mechanics of the event.



The catalyst was the Treasury's announcement. Even though the auction
plans announced for five-year and 10-year notes Wednesday were below
market expectations - and despite a cutback in one-year Treasury bill
auctions that would otherwise be supportive to the short end of the
curve - investors and the dealers who execute trades on their behalf
have focused on the government's clear intention to reduce its
outstanding long-term debt.



That's created the perception of scarcity for 30-year Treasury bonds
and fueled a scramble to buy them among many investors who are mandated
to hold them, said PaineWebber's Ryan.



"There are a pool of buyers that by definition have to be in these
longer durations," Ryan said. Those who hold 10-year notes can turn to
agency debt or corporate bonds, he said, but for 20- or 30-year
durations "there aren't a lot of alternatives other than Treasurys."
Duration refers to a security's interest-rate sensitivity, which
generally rises the longer-dated the issue.



At the same time, the short end of the curve is hurt by the tighter
monetary policy environment currently prevailing in the U.S.



The Federal Reserve raised its target Federal funds rate by a
quarter-percentage-point Wednesday and many expect it to make similar
moves in the months ahead, a trend which inevitably undermines the
return on short-dated maturities.



Thus the 30-year bond has emerged as a beneficiary from a course of
events that pits a tightening Fed against a supply-reducing Treasury
Department.
-By Michael Casey and Victor Ozols, Dow Jones Newswires
-michael.j.casey@dowjones.com; victor.ozols@dowjones.com
-201-938-2009; 201-938-2069
-(Joe Niedzielski and Shella Calamba contributed to this article.)

   COratel : Vodafone Group PLC   INi7902 : Telecommunications   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m11 : Equity Markets | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REeurz : Europe | namz : North America | uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | weurz : Western Europe   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument dji0000020010805dw2300ov7  

HDAnalysis:  Interest rate  hike by the  Federal Reserve    WC1,054 words   PD3 February 2000   SNCBS News: The Early Show   SCCBST   LAEnglish   CY(c) Copyright 2000, CBS Worldwide Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
   LPBRYANT GUMBEL, co-host:   

The stock markets didn't lose much ground after news of the rate hike became official. Let's bring in our Eye On The Street, Brian Finnerty.   
   TDBrian, good morning.   

BRIAN FINNERTY reporting:   

Good morning, Bryant.   

GUMBEL: How come this didn't stop the streak?   

FINNERTY: The market knew this. We've been talking about this for over a month. If you remember back to the December Fed meeting, they didn't do anything because of Y2K problems. They didn't want to upset the apple cart then, and everyone expected that they'd come right back here beginning of February and do it because consumers have been spending. Consumers are feeling good. People are working. People are making money. They're feeling good. They're spending money.   

GUMBEL: So what are you telling me? This market is immune to the hikes?   

FINNERTY: There's a couple things going on, Bryant. It's not immune to the hikes, but what's happening is that the Fed and Greenspan are doing it very gradually so that they're softening the effects of the blow here and they're dragging it out a bit. That's what's going on and that's why it's--it's easing in.   

GUMBEL: But all sectors on the market are not necessarily impacted equally, correct?   

FINNERTY: Well, that's correct. A--a--a lot of people say, `Well, if the Fed's going to raise, and they're probably going to raise again in March, they might raise again at the May meeting, what's going on here?' Watch out for your big valuation stocks like the high techs.   

GUMBEL: Mm-hmm.   

FINNERTY: And people say, `Well--well, those could be very vulnerable.'   

GUMBEL: Well, why isn't this a good time to take your money out of those overvalued stocks then?   

FINNERTY: Because the very stocks that actually rallied yesterday--the market sort of yawned on this whole thing. It didn't do much. The stocks that rallied were the high techs because of their high growth. And I think that people, investors, do not want to be--they want to be in high tech. They don't want to be off the train here 'cause this train's going to...   

GUMBEL: Yeah.   

FINNERTY: ...leave the station and there's so much going on there.   

GUMBEL: Were there any sectors--are there any sectors that are going to be particularly hurt by this?   

FINNERTY: Well, you saw yesterday, the--the obvious ones right away--the banks got knocked down a little bit...   

GUMBEL: Mm-hmm.   

FINNERTY: ...so all the--all the big banks, a lot of the big money center banks, got hit hard yesterday. Some housing sectors wou--would be hurt a little bit because...   

GUMBEL: Consumer goods?   

FINNERTY: ...consumer sectors. You know, p--mortgage rates are going to creep up, maybe the housing market cools off a little bit. That's what Greenspan is trying to do, cool off these markets--not kill them, cool them off.   

GUMBEL: Before we get to your picks, the market's one thing. What about those people who are less interested in--in playing the market than paying their bills? How do you see this affecting them?   

FINNERTY: Well, again, slightly higher interest rates--emphasis on the word `slightly.' Slightly higher, maybe payments on your--your credit card interest.   

GUMBEL: Mm-hmm.   

FINNERTY: Not a lot, though. That's why the Fed is--this whole gradual thing, Bryant, and it's worked. And I think it's going to continue to work. And by the way, I don't think it'll go past summertime, 'cause it is a presidential election year. And once those conventions start, we don't want any rate hikes.   

GUMBEL: You got that right.   

FINNERTY: So...   

GUMBEL: All right. Take us through your picks. Let's see what you got that are hot.   

FINNERTY: Well, actually I'm going to stay in the technology sector again, but I'm going to go with one we did about a month ago...   

GUMBEL: JDSU, I remember.   

FINNERTY:  ...JDS Uniphase. It's a broadband telecom. This is feeding the information quicker and broader.   

GUMBEL: What was it when you went with it a month ago?   

FINNERTY: I think it was about 155.   

GUMBEL: Now 207.   

FINNERTY: Yeah, it--it--it's up.   

GUMBEL: Not bad.   

FINNERTY: It's not cheap by any means, but this growth here is phenomenal. We want to stay with this one. It's going to go higher. Another one in the same group is Nortel Networks. Symbol is NT. Stock actually had a good move yesterday. Kind of wish it was a little lower when I'm recommending it, but I think this stock has got a lot further to run.   

GUMBEL: Mm-hmm.   

FINNERTY: These are two stocks in the hot area of the infrastructure of the--of the Internet.   

GUMBEL: OK. Final note: Any danger the Fed could go too far with this raising of the rates and turn this--this bull market into a bear?   

FINNERTY: I think that Greenspan and the Fed have been so vigilant on this that the minute they see--like ev--some people said, `Could we go a half a point?' yesterday. If they'd have done that, that might have really cooled it down 'cause it might have hurt some of the business overseas 'cause the dollar's so strong.   

GUMBEL: Yeah.   

FINNERTY: They didn't want to do that. If--the minute they do that, I think they'll go the other way and ease. I don't think that's in the cards now, but if that were to happen and the economy did start to slide...   

GUMBEL: Mm-hmm.   

FINNERTY: ...the Fed is on top of their game here. They--they're really on their game, and--and they're going to watch it. So it--I don't believe that can happen here.   

GUMBEL: And--and by the way, the--the reaction on the markets overseas this morning, pretty mixed.   

FINNERTY: Yeah.   

GUMBEL: Pretty mixed. OK. Brian Finnerty, thanks a bunch.   

FINNERTY: Thank you, Bryant.   

GUMBEL: It's 7:08. Jane.   

JANE CLAYSON (Co-host): Thanks, Bryant.   
   NSntra : Transcript | nanl : Analysis | e1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBBurrelle's Information Services   ANDocument CBST000020070818dw23000ni  

HDNewscast:  Federal Reserve  raises short-term interest rates again      WC426 words   PD3 February 2000   SNCBS News: The Early Show   SCCBST   LAEnglish   CY(c) Copyright 2000, CBS Worldwide Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
   LPBRYANT GUMBEL, co-host:   

In what's becoming a familiar anti-inflation strategy, the Federal Reserve, as expected, has raised short-term interest rates yet again. Our First Look this morning examines the Fed's move and its impact on consumers. Anthony Mason has been tracking the story.   
   TDAnthony, good morning.   

ANTHONY MASON reporting:   

Good morning, Bryant.   

You know, it's strange, but sometimes good news is bad news. Unemployment may be at 30-year lows, but Alan Greenspan believes this red-hot economy is going to run out of workers soon. If that happens, companies will have to raise wages to lure employees, and inflation could come roaring back. So Mr. Greenspan has drawn his one real weapon and pulled the trigger again.   

Your credit card interest rate is going up again. Mortgage rates will be rising, too, after the Federal Reserve raised its overnight borrowing rates a quarter of a point, its fourth hike in seven months.   

Mr. STEPHEN SLIFER (Chief US Economist,  Lehman Brothers): The reality is all interest rates, long rates, short rates, are all gradually moving their way higher.   

MASON: The reason: Fed Chairman Greenspan is worried the economy is too hot, the job market too tight, that inflation may reignite. So far, the Fed's hikes have failed to cool off the economy. Example: While mortgage rates have jumped nearly 2 points in the past year, home building is still robust. Economist Stephen Slifer believes the economy will begin to feel the bite of these hikes within a few months.   

Mr. SLIFER: But I got to also say that if we don't see a slowdown, if we're all wrong and that doesn't happen, then those rate levels are obviously going to keep going higher.   

MASON: In fact, Slifer expects another rate hike next month. Many economists believe the Fed won't stop there. The goal is to make us all feel just a bit poorer and to make us spend just a little less, because we, American consumers, on an incredible spending spree, have been the engine of this remarkable economy. Bryant.   

GUMBEL: Greenspan and the Fed are so petrified of inflation. Any justification for their fear?   

MASON: There are a lot of economists who say they don't think so. That's--that's the remarkable part, but the Fed's job is to nip it before it starts. Because once it starts, it's much harder to control.   

GUMBEL: Got you. All right, Anthony. Thank you.   
   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ntra : Transcript | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBBurrelle's Information Services   ANDocument CBST000020070818dw23000nh  

HDNewscast: Raising of short-term interest rates is the central bank's latest move to cool the booming economy      WC337 words   PD3 February 2000   SNCBS News: Morning News   SCCBSM   LAEnglish   CY(c) Copyright 2000, CBS Worldwide Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
   LPJULIE CHEN, anchor:   

The nation's central bank has done as expected and raised short-term interest rates. It's their latest move to cool the booming economy. Anthony Mason reports.   
   TDANTHONY MASON reporting:   

Your credit card interest rate is going up again. Mortgage rates will be rising, too, after the Federal Reserve raised its overnight borrowing rates 1/4 of a point, its fourth hike in seven months.   

Mr. STEPHEN SLIFER (Lehman Bros. Chief Economist): The reality is all interest rates--long range, short range--are all gradually moving their way higher.   

MASON: Economist Stephen Slifer says Fed Chairman Greenspan is still worried the economy is accelerating too quickly.   

Mr. SLIFER: Somewhere the wage pressures will start to build, and once the wage pressures build, that's two-thirds of a firm's overall cost.   

MASON: So that's how inflation begins to kick in and why interest rates are headed up.   

So far the Fed's rate hikes have done little to slow the economy down. The booming stock market has fattened 401(k) and pension plans and made many Americans feel like they still have money to burn.   

So while mortgage rates have jumped nearly 2 points in the past year, home building is still robust. The economic expansion, now nearly nine years old, surpassed the '60s' expansion this month as the longest ever. Economist Peter Morici says a lot has changed.   

Mr. PETER MORICI (Economic Strategy Institute): In the '60s, to continue growing, we had to build more auto factories, more steel mills. Today we make more copies of  Microsoft Windows.   

MASON: So, Morici says, the US economy is a powerful engine.   

Mr. MORICI: The recovery will not die of its own--on its own.   

MASON: And Greenspan doesn't want to kill it, so he tapped the brakes again, trying to slow the economy without stalling it. Anthony Mason, CBS News, New York.   
   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ntra : Transcript | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBBurrelle's Information Services   ANDocument CBSM000020070818dw23000bk  



 HDMixed Blessing: Cutting National Debt Sounds Cool but Upsets Some Well-Laid Plans --- Treasurys Are a Mainstay Of Conservative Investors And Serve as Benchmark --- Job Retraining for Traders?   BYBy Gregory Zuckerman and John D. McKinnon      CRStaff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal   WC2,027 words   PD3 February 2000   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGA1   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)   
   LPDuring the 1990s, John Mitchell drove a truck through the lower 48 states towing a "National Debt Clock," a 25-foot computerized scoreboard that totted up second-by-second increases in the federal debt.

Today, the clock sits in a Storage USA shed in Fort Washington, Md. The national debt now is shrinking, not growing. And Mr. Mitchell is just one of many trying to adjust to the change. "I had a good time," he says, recalling his days as a harbinger of giant deficits. "I met a lot of people I never would have met."
   TDHis nostalgia is shared in the bond-trading rooms of Wall Street, which got a jolt yesterday when the Treasury Department announced that it was slashing the number of debt auctions it holds. Undersecretary for Domestic Finance Gary Gensler said the department will now sell one-year Treasurys only four times a year, instead of every four weeks. It will also reduce the number of new 10-year notes and 30-year bonds it sells.

The government plans to reduce publicly held debt by $17 billion in the current quarter and $152 billion in the following quarter, the largest debt reduction in U.S. history. Details of the plan sent bond traders scurrying to buy up remaining government securities yesterday, an action that pushed interest rates on long-term bonds down on a day when the Federal Reserve was trying to nudge short-term rates up. Thirty-year bonds ended the day much stronger, with the yield falling to 6.28%.

That exacerbated an anomalous situation known as an inverted yield curve -- lower yields on long-term Treasurys than on many shorter-term ones -- that is throwing investors for a loop.

For consumers, the dwindling supply of Treasurys is likely to be a benefit, on balance. For one thing, it is helping to offset at least some of the flagging demand that investors -- smitten by stocks in recent years -- have had for Treasurys. If it weren't for this slipping supply, bond yields would probably be closer to 7%, analysts say, pushing consumer rateswhich are still tied to Treasurys -- higher.

Further, corporations are issuing bonds and other debt securities at a record pace. Because the Treasury market has shrunk, investors are increasingly buying up corporate debt, keeping the rates that corporations must pay lower than they would otherwise be, and helping corporate profits. More investors are also switching to bonds such as mortgage-backed securities, helping keep a lid on mortgage rates for homeowners.

The picture looks different to those on trading desks. While the budget deficits of yore caused concern on Main Street, they meant profits on Wall Street. The government-bond trading business of the 1980s was portrayed as part of a "modern gold rush" in Michael Lewis's book "Liar's Poker," which both glorified and gored the business. The Treasury market attracted some of the brightest minds on Wall Street and also prompted some of the biggest scams, such as Salomon Brothers' 1991 scheme to rig Treasury auctions.

But now that great money machine is being scaled back. Fabled firms have had to downsize. Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., which as part of the old Shearson Lehman Brothers employed 56 traders and salespeople in its Treasury operations, now has fewer than 30 in the group. Japan's Nikko Securities International, which led a rush by foreign firms to become "primary dealers" in Treasury debt, de-emphasized the business a year ago.

"We decided to focus on greater opportunities in asset management," says Masao Matsudo, Nikko International's president. The total number of primary dealers in Treasury securities has dropped to 30 from 46 during the peak debt years.

As the supply of Treasurys has declined, so has trading of the securities. In the 1999 fourth quarter, an average of about $175 billion worth of Treasury securities changed hands each day, compared with $240 billion in the first quarter of 1998, according to Stone & McCarthy Research Associates. Like steel and auto workers of earlier decades, once-cocky bond traders are being sent off for retraining.

Consider Julie Glennon's situation. She was until last year a veteran Treasury trader at Citigroup Inc.'s Salomon Smith Barney, the current incarnation of the old Salomon Brothers bond-trading powerhouse. Then she was switched to trading the bonds of quasi-governmental agencies such as Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.

"I was asked to make the change, and there are aspects of the market I'm still not familiar with," she says. But at least this market is growing, she adds.

Experts on the government's debt once were lured out of the Federal Reserve and the Treasury and paid big bucks for their expertise. No more. Louis Crandall, an authority on the Treasury's bond sales, says even his market-leading newsletter, Wrightson Associates' Money Market Observer, is seeing subscriptions drop. While his phone lit up yesterday in the wake of the Treasury's announcement, he knows the attention won't last.

"It's Indian summer for folks like us," he says. "It feels like a last hurrah. It's wonderful that America is cutting its debt, but it's terrible for guys like us."

The shrinking government debt is a problem for investors, as well as traders. Treasurys have long been considered the safest investment in a world of volatile markets. In the summer of 1998, after the Russian debt crisis, investors from all over the world dumped stocks and corporate bonds and rushed into Treasurys.

But now, with Treasurys in shorter supply, investors are searching for a new benchmark of risk-free investments. "We've been cut loose, we're drifting," says Gary Goodenough, a bond manager at Loomis Sayles & Co.

Conservative investors are having to consider riskier investments. Charles Cox, the director of finance for Farmers Branch, Texas, currently keeps about 35% of his city's $60 million portfolio in Treasurys. But he is preparing for a day when the city will have to look elsewhere. "We've got a real conservative investment policy," he says. "If we have to give up Treasurys, it could be a problem."

Where would he turn to replace them? Among possible alternatives, says Mr. Cox, are the securities of agencies such as Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, which raise money to buy home mortgages. Both already are courting investors seeking safety. Fannie Mae, for instance, recently launched a new bond-issuance program called Benchmark that mirrors traditional Treasury operations in its size and regularity.

Meanwhile, Leland Brendsel, chief executive of Freddie Mac, has gone from quasi-government bureaucrat to the Ricky Martin of the bond world -- everyone wants a piece of him. "I went to Singapore in December, and we had no problem getting meetings with the top investors," Mr. Brendsel says. "I travel abroad to meet with investors every three months. I never used to go abroad."

Efforts by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to become bigger players, however, raise concerns among some policy makers. The two firms are privately owned. Their securities are considered safe largely because the markets assume that the government, which created both agencies, will stand behind them. If this is true, it means taxpayers are assuming an ever larger risk as Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac expand, while the companies' shareholders enjoy profits at taxpayers' expense.

Some big companies are also looking to get a piece of the lucrative business. Ford Motor Co., for instance, made a splash recently by boosting its bond issuance.

And it means more business off Wall Street, even in a city such as Memphis, Tenn., that was once better known as a home of boiler-room operators known as "bond daddies."

"As the national debt gets paid off and Treasurys shrink, it plays into our hands," says Deke Iglehart, senior vice president at First Tennessee Bank near Memphis, one of the biggest underwriters of agency securities such as Fannie Maes. "Big accounts who used to hang up on us 10 years ago now take our calls, and foreign central banks are calling us up," says Mr. Iglehart, whose firm's offices share a lobby with a local Navy recruiting station.

Indeed, foreign investors may be the most affected by the shrinkage of Treasury debt. Such investors, including central banks, own about 40% of Washington's $3.2 trillion in accumulated marketable debt, up from just 20% five years ago.

Some foreign investors are already making the move to agency debt and high-grade corporate debt, according to David Hale, chief economist at Zurich Financial Services of Chicago.

As for interest-rate benchmarks, Richard Medley of Medley Global Advisers suggests that an index based on a mix of government, agency and corporate securities could be used to substitute for the Treasury's role in determining these. "There's some interest in not doing a single-bond index but doing an index out of several, so you don't . . . make the world a hostage to the management decision of, say, a Ford," he says. (He notes that in the 1950s, when government debt was scarce, bonds of a handful of corporations formed the basic benchmark, with General Motors the prototype.)

For the Federal Reserve, the shrinkage of government debt is particularly tricky, since the Fed uses Treasurys in conducting open-market operations. The Fed sells Treasury securities to banks when it wants to drain money from the banking system and thus raise interest rates. And it buys Treasurys when it wants to increase money in the banking system and lower interest rates. Recently, it has begun using more of the debt of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, as well as mortgage-backed securities issued by those two agencies, to do its business.

Some economists worry about the Fed giving its stamp of approval to certain types of corporate debt. But Stephen G. Cecchetti, an Ohio State University economics professor, notes that "we're unusual in the U.S. in relying on U.S. Treasury issues" in conducting monetary policy. "In most countries, it's done with privately issued securities, as well as sovereign. . . . Any potential concern about conducting monetary policy is not, in my view, something to worry about."

For his part, Treasury Secretary Lawrence Summers says that shrinkage of the government debt market is "a high-class problem compared to the large-scale crowding out of private investment that has been a concern of past Treasurys." He and many other economists believe the reduction in government borrowing helps keep down interest rates and means more money is available for private investment.

Martin Baily, chairman of the president's Council of Economic Advisers, says that by his calculation, inflation-adjusted interest rates "have been 30% to 50% lower" in this expansion than in the debt-ridden 1980s. As a result, he says, investment and growth have been higher, as has consumer confidence.

But not everyone is confident. In midtown Manhattan, not far from Times Square, another digital National Debt Clock continues to tick away, adding about $1,000 a second, impervious to reports that the national debt is going down. Douglas Durst, a New York real-estate executive whose father dreamed up the clock, says it measures total debt, which includes securities held by the Social Security system. The amount of those securities is still growing, along with the Social Security surplus, which is invested in them. "The debt is still growing," Mr. Durst insists. "People don't realize it."

Economists argue that securities purchased with surplus Social Security funds are simply a government bookkeeping transaction, and have no real effect on the economy. The more relevant measure is debt held by the public, they say, which is declining.

But James Glassman, an economist at Chase Manhattan Bank, says the still-ticking clock is a reflection of "how deeply the fear of the debt was ingrained in our whole psychology." 
   INi35101 : Passenger Cars | i81401 : Central Banking | iinv : Investing/Securities | i351 : Motor Vehicles | iaut : Automobiles | ibnk : Banking/Credit | i814 : Banking   NSm12 : Debt/Bond Markets | npag : Page-One Story | mntdbt : National Government Debt/Bond Markets | e1202 : Interest Rates | gvtre : Treasury Department | e212 : Government Borrowing | c13 : Regulation/Government Policy | c1521 : Analyst Comment/Recommendation | c172 : Corporate Debt Instruments | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | ecat : Economic News | gvexe : Executive Branch | gvhhs : Health/Human Services Department | gwelf : Welfare/Social Services | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | c15 : Performance | c152 : Earnings Projections | c17 : Funding/Capital | cactio : Corporate Actions | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e21 : Government Finance | gcat : Political/General News | gcom : Society/Community/Work | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter   REusa : United States | jap : Japan | singp : Singapore | usdc : Washington DC | usmi : Michigan | usva : Virginia | namz : North America | use : Northeast U.S. | asiaz : Asia | easiaz : Eastern Asia | seasiaz : Southeast Asia | usc : Midwest U.S. | uss : Southern U.S.   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument j000000020010807dw23000nv  



 SEBusiness; Money Market   HDGoing Nowhere Till RBA Decides   BYBy Matt Wade      WC617 words   PD2 February 2000   SNSydney Morning Herald   SCSMHH   PG21   LAEnglish   CY© 2000 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.   www.smh.com.au
   LPWith the Reserve Bank of Australia widely tipped to raise official interest rates this morning, the dollar was trapped below US64c yesterday and market interest rates edged marginally lower.

The uneasy calm on financial markets after a roller-coaster week, in which the dollar suffered its biggest plunge in more than three years, reflected widespread uncertainty about the direction of monetary policy around the globe, with key central bank meetings in Australia, the US and Europe to be held this week.
   TDMost market economists predict the Reserve will announce a rate rise of one quarter of 1 per cent this morning, taking the official cash rate to 5.25 per cent.

``We will be very surprised if a 25 basis-point rate rise is not announced at 9.30 on the dot,'' HSBC senior economist Mr Grant Fitzner said.

Warburg Dillon Read senior economist Mr Scott Haslem, who also has predicted a 25 basis-point rise, said the Reserve had indicated it favoured modest incremental rises.

``We think they will have three moves before the middle of the year, but we think they will do it in gradual 25-point moves,'' he said.

Macquarie Bankinterest rate strategist Mr Rory Robertson said, while a 25 basis-point rise was the most likely scenario, a 50-point increase could not be ruled out.

``The RBA has the option of moving by 25 basis points in February and by another 25 basis points in March, or doing 50 basis points right now. Doing 50 basis points in one hit has the advantage of making people sit up and take notice, changing the expectations and behaviour of businesses and consumers.''

Westpac global head of economics Mr Bill Evans has forecast the Reserve will lift rates by 50 basis points.

Meanwhile, the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) of the US Federal Reserve Board the entity that sets monetary policy in the US began its two-day meeting overnight to decide if interest rates will rise.

While the FOMC is expected to lift rates, opinion is divided as to whether the increase will be 25 or 50 basis points. Any move by the FOMC to raise rates will not be announced until Friday afternoon, Sydney time.

A survey of market economists showed that most expect a 25 basis-point rise in the US this week, followed by a similar rise next month.

``I remain confident that the Fed is going to do only 25 basis points this week. Indeed, no-one in the US seems to see 50 basis point by the Fed as anything more than a risk,'' Mr Robertson said.

The European Central Bank meets tomorrow, although it is not expected to change monetary policy.

The dollar was in limbo yesterday, trading in a narrow range to close at US63.58c, down from the previous mark of US63.71c.

Bond prices were slightly firmer in quiet trading.

The benchmark three-year bond yield closed down 2 basis points at 6.78 per cent while the yield on the benchmark 10-year bond remained steady on 7.17 per cent for a second day.

In other economic news, statistics for motor vehicle registrations were published yesterday. They showed a rise of almost 2.8 per cent in December, following a 4.8 per cent increase in November.

The Bureau of Statistics data suggest the ``car buyers' strike'' ahead of the GST could be over. 


MONEY
$A/$US                         63.58   -0.11
TWI                                55.9      -0.1
OVERNIGHT CASH        5.01     stdy
90-DAY BANK BILLS    5.69    +0.09
10-YEAR BONDS          7.17      stdy

   COrbkaus : Reserve Bank of Australia   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Monetary Policy | gpersf : Personal Finance | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News   REusa : United States | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | namz : North America   PUBFairfax Media Management Pty Limited   ANDocument smhh000020010813dw22002pz  

HD Riverside, Calif.-Area Manufacturers Fear Inflation, Expect Rate Hike    BY Rick Burnham    WC722 words   PD2 February 2000   SNRiverside, California   SCKRTBN   LAEnglish   CY Copyright (C) 2000 KRTBN Knight Ridder Tribune Business News; Source: World Reporter (TM) 
   LP Inland area factory executives expect manufacturing to continue expanding, but soaring raw materials costs are boosting inflation fears and strengthening expectations that the Federal Reserve will raise interest rates, most likely today. 

 The Purchasing Managers Index reached 55.6 in January, well above December's 50.5, according to a monthly report from the Institute of Applied Research and Policy Analysis at California State University, San Bernardino. 
   TD Generally, an index level above 50 percent indicates a growing manufacturing sector, while a figure above 44.5 percent means an expanding local economy. 

 Nationally, purchasing managers see the same upward trend. The manufacturing index in January's national survey of factory executives registered 56.3 percent, down slightly from a revised 56.8 percent in December. 

 Despite the optimism, both surveys point to continued worries over rising prices for raw materials used to make finished goods. 

 Locally, January's commodity price index reached 66.7, up from December's 63.5. The gain suggests that inflationary pressures are continuing to increase in the region, said Shel Bockman and Barbara Sirotnik, the institute's co-directors. 

 Nationally, the commodity price index surged to 72.6 percent from a revised 68.3 percent in December. 

 The inflation warning comes during a two-day meeting of Federal Reserve policy-makers who are expected to raise interest rates for the fourth time since June. 

 Inland economist John Husing said January's Inland survey showed "unbridled enthusiasm" by local factory executives, reflecting the verve of the U.S. economy. 

 "When you look at the fourth-quarter (economic) data for the country, it (the optimism) isn't surprising ... everyone's enthusiastic," Husing said. 

 Only four percent of Inland factory executives think the local economy will be weaker in the next three months, down from 8 percent in December and the lowest monthly tally since January 1999. 

 Another 14 percent expect the economy to strengthen, down from 18 percent in December, and 82 percent expect it to remain the same, up from 74 percent last month. 

 But Husing warned that such enthusiasm in a burgeoning economy generally is a sign that the Fed will slow the economy by raising rates. And this time, he said, the Fed may raise rates one-half of a percentage point instead of the quarter-point hikes it has made since last June. 

 "I think the numbers we're looking at are symptomatic of a country that's really happy with the economy, which means the Fed could stomp on the brakes with both feet," Husing said. 

 The Fed's three earlier interest-rate hikes haven't appeared to have much effect on consumer spending, in part because rates had been at relatively low levels following the recession. 

 Consumers also have had access to alternative financing plans with lower rates than those charged by financial institutions. 

 Some auto manufacturers, for instance, have enticed buyers by offering low-interest or zero-interest financing -- rates well below those offered by banks or credit unions. 

 And a growing number of home buyers have been turning to adjustable-rate mortgages, known as ARMs, to beat rising rates for 30-year, fixed-rate mortgages, said Ron Green, assistant vice president in the Riverside office of Temple-Inland Mortgage Corp. 

 The current rate for a six-month adjustable loan indexed to the 11th District cost of funds is 6 percent plus 1 point, Green said. A point is equal to 1 percent of the loan amount. The current rate for a 30-year fixed-rate loan, based on the same 1 -point charge, is 8 percent, Green said. 

 Only about 10 to 15 percent of borrowers have turned to ARMs so far, "but it's growing," he said. 

 Still, Green doesn't think even a half-percentage-point rise in rates will have much effect on Inland home buyers. 

 "I don't see it raising (mortgage) rates here by more than one-eighth or one-quarter of a percent ... we've already seen rates rise by one-quarter of a percentage point in the last week in anticipation of the Fed taking action," Green said. 

 "Besides, buyers aren't buying right now anyway ... because we have a lack of inventory (of homes on the market), particularly in affordable housing," he said. 
   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States | usca : California | usw : Western U.S.   IPDInterest Rates | Economic Indicators | Economic News | Facilities & Equipment | Company News | Forecasts & Predictions | General News | Inflation | United States of America, Americas~US | Americas | North America | Pacific Rim | California | Federal_Reserve_USA   ANDocument krtbn00020010820dw220014d  



 HD Take heart from Greenspan's medicine    WC947 words   PD2 February 2000   SNThe Express   SCTHEEXP   LAEnglish   CY Copyright (C) 2000 The Express; Source: World Reporter (TM) 
   LP ALAN Greenspan is a train driver and the American economy is his locomotive. In the driver's cab the over-heating gauge is climbing ominously towards the red zone. 

 As head of the US Federal Reserve it is Greenspan's job to apply the brakes today to the US economy before consumers celebrate yesterday's milestone as the longest period of expansion in the country's history by going on an even bigger binge. That is a distinct possibility which, if it is not checked, has profound implications for everyone regardless of whether they have money invested in the stock market or not. 
   TD America's central bank will raise rates today most likely by a quarter- point to 5.75 per cent. But, as Greenspan said last month: "The Fed is intent on defusing the imbalances that would undermine the expansion." That could lead to US rates jumping to 6 per cent in one go. However I think the Fed wants to see if it can cool things gradually rather than dousing the growth rate, which would cause a sharp fall in either production or the stock market or, worse still, both at once. 

 US Treasury Secretary Larry Summers did his bit to strike a balance between encouraging consumer confidence in the American growth story but keeping it within acceptable bounds when he was in Davos at the weekend for the World Economic Forum. 

 He said: "In a real sense today we do have a new economy in the United States with surpluses and with the progress we have made in information technology. But it is a serious mistake to over-interpret that observation. The parameters of certain economic relationships have changed but the laws of economics have not been repealed. Much less the laws of human psychology." 

 What Greenspan and his Fed board members will look at closely is the sort of data guaranteed to cause nightmares to any right-minded central bankers: inflation. And not just any old inflation but one driven by consumers borrowing beyond their means to buy shares in the stock market. Look at the back-drop. Yesterday the US entered its 107th month of expansion. Inflation and unemployment are at 30-year lows while 17 million new jobs have been created. 

 Companies have to pay much more in wages to keep staff and to increase benefits such as pensions and healthcare insurance all of which can stoke inflationary fires. Over the recent Christmas holidays, for example, personal expenditure in the US rose by 0.8 per cent compared with a 0.3 per cent rise in personal incomes while the savings rate has dropped to a record low of 1.5 per cent of income. 

 Apart from booming employment, the real reason that Americans feel so good about life is the stock market. More than 50 per cent of the population hold shares and in the past decade they have seen them soar. 

 The "wealth effect" has spread beyond America's border to embrace investors who have put money in the US market. Last year alone, the Nasdaq index, home to Microsoft, Dell Computers and other high-tech and dot-com com-panies, rose by 80 per cent. Even UK investors who took a sensible route to US exposure using a traditional unit or investment trust should have done well on the back of the high-tech share boom in America. 

 Such huge rises in the nominal wealth held by investors is wonderful for a while but hardly sustainable if you want to run a low-inflation, sustainable-growth economy. That is what Greenspan wants to do as much as Chancellor Gordon Brown and the interest rate-setters at the Bank of England. 

 I think UK investors should have an American content in their portfolios just as they should take in the Asia Pacific markets and perhaps a bit of Latin America and some UK venture capital funds. But what really matters when you pick individual shares and particularly in the high-tech or dot-com world is that you return to fundamental values. 

 Today Amazon.com, the online book retailer, will announce even bigger losses as burgeoning costs sharply outweigh high sales. 

 Think about it. Amazon is a great idea but it's not rocket science. Traditional booksellers have a hard enough time making decent profits selling books as it is. The same principles apply to any of the great ideas we have seen from young techno whizz-kids. Good ideas are the lifeblood of stock markets. 

 But change in technology is so fast that as soon as someone thinks of something new - auctions on-line, more accessible software linking mobiles to the Net or selling last minute holidays - a host of competitors jumps out of the woodwork and do it faster and cheaper. 

 For consumers this is great but for investors it means keeping a permanent weather-eye out for progress or lack of it. If I were looking for good value in tech stocks I think I would be tempted to look at the companies producing the new generation boxes and software that drive the "new ideas" revolution. 

 If the US Fed acts as it should today by raising interest rates, investors should take heart. It means that Greenspan now, followed next week by the Bank of England, and the European Central Bank either later this week or certainly next month, are determined that we should have our growth but only at a sustainable rate. If our central bankers fail, we will be back to the bad old days of boom and bust. 

 And you know how Gordon Brown would hate that. 
   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | eec : European Union | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations   REeurz : Europe | namz : North America | uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | weurz : Western Europe   IPC52111 | 6011   IPDEconomic News | Interest Rates | Economic Indicators | United Kingdom, Europe~GB | United States of America, Americas~US | Europe | European Union | Western Europe | Americas | North America | Pacific Rim | Federal_Reserve_USA | Federal Reserve Banks | Monetary Authorities - Central Bank   ANDocument theexp0020010805dw22002d1  



 CLMCOOLING THE ECONOMY   SE Report on Business: International    HD Fed chairman's expected rate increase may not be his last    BY BARRIE McKENNA    CRWashington Bureau   WC718 words   PD2 February 2000   SNThe Globe and Mail   SCGLOB   EDMetro   PGB1   LAEnglish   CY All material copyright Thomson Canada Limited or its licensors. All rights reserved. 
   LP Washington -- Alan Greenspan is expected today make his first stab of the new year to slow down the surging U.S. economy -- now into its longest expansion ever. But it's unlikely to be his last. 

 The Federal Reserve Board chairman and other U.S. central bank policy makers are widely expected to raise the bank's trend-setting short-term target interest rate by a quarter percentage point to 5.75 per cent when they emerge from their two-day meeting in Washington today. That would bring the rate to its highest level in four years. 
   TD The Bank of Canada could match that increase within days, forcing up interest rates charged by major banks on most consumer and business loans. 

 But few economists believe that one modest rate hike now -- the fourth such increase since last spring -- will be enough to cool off the hot stock market or the unprecedented consumer spending frenzy it has spawned across the United States. 

 To do that, the Fed will have to force up rates at least two or three times early this year, and possibly more, suggested Lyle Gramley, a former Fed governor and now a consulting economist with the Washington-based Mortgage Bankers Association of America. If that doesn't temper the stock market's rise, then a total two- or three-percentage-point increase may be needed, he said. 

 "How far the Fed has to go in raising short-term interest rates depends critically on how the stock market responds," Mr. Gramley added. "I think they'll settle for 25 basis points and add more in March. Then, they'll sit back and wait a while to see what impact those two increases have." 

 Mr. Gramley said Mr. Greenspan's first choice is to slow things down gradually. 

 In a survey by Bloomberg News, 30 individual bank and brokerage economists were unanimous in expecting that the Fed would opt for a quarter-percentage-point rise in its overnight bank lending rate. 

 Stock markets have been unusually volatile in the days leading up to this year's first meeting of the Fed's policy-making committee. Stocks plunged on Friday, led by the technology sector, but they rebounded yesterday and Monday. Trading on the Toronto Stock Exchange 300 closed yesterday at 8,535.26, up 54.15 points, while the Dow Jones ended at 11,041.05, up 100.52. 

 Sherry Cooper, chief economist at Nesbitt Burns in Toronto, said she expects the central bank to couple an interest hike today with a toughly worded statement pointing to further increases down the road. 

 "The Federal Reserve has much more work to do to take the froth out of this steamy economy," Ms. Cooper said. "Remarkably, the economy seems to be accelerating even in the face of the past year's dramatic runup in long-term interest rates and the trio of Fed rate hikes during the summer and fall." 

 This week's Fed meeting comes as the U.S. economy entered its 107th consecutive month of expansion, beating the previous mark set between 1961 and 1969, while the Vietnam War was raging. 

 But the good times have triggered fears that the supply of available workers in the United States has dwindled to the point where rising wages and inflation are unavoidable. The U.S. jobless rate was at 4.1 per cent in December, but could fall further when data for January are released shortly, creating added pressure for wage increases. 

 The U.S. economy grew at a torrid 5.8-per-cent annual rate in the last quarter of 1999, up from an equally impressive 5.7-per-cent clip in the third quarter. 

 Soaring stocks and real estate values have left consumers feeling flush and confident. And economists said this is keeping the U.S. economy growing rapidly. 

 The economy has been so good for so long that many people now believe the boom will never end. 

 Also yesterday, the Senate banking committee approved Mr. Greenspan's nomination to a fourth four-year term as Federal Reserve chairman, clearing the way for a vote by the full Senate tomorrow. Mr. Greenspan is 73 years old. 
   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | npag : Page-One Story   REcana : Canada | namz : North America | usa : United States   IPDUnited States | monetary policy | interest rates | economy | Federal Reserve Board | Alan Greenspan   ANDocument glob000020010806dw22005mi  



 HD Long Bond Surges On Supply Concerns; Market Brushes Off Rate Hike    WC559 words   PD2 February 2000   ET15:01   SNDow Jones Business News   SCDJON   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- Bond investors brushed off the Federal Reserve's interest-rate hike, as the long bond soared on news the Treasury will further reduce government debt issuance. 

 Late Wednesday, the price of the 30-year bond was up 1 27/32 while its yield - which moves inversely to the price - tumbled to 6.28% from 6.42% late Tuesday. Meanwhile, the 10-year note was up 10/32 to yield 6.57% while the two-year note was down 1/32 to yield 6.58%. 
   TD The long-bond's yield remains well below the yields of shorter-term Treasury coupon securities, continuing the phenomenon known as yield inversion. 

 The bond market was jolted by news that the Treasury planned to issue $5 billion less in new securities at next week's auction than the market had expected. In addition, the Treasury unveiled a new auction schedule that calls for new 30-year bonds to be issued only in February rather than twice a year, with "significantly smaller" reopenings in August. 

 The government overhauled its debt-financing calendar because amid mounting budget surpluses, it doesn't need to borrow as much money and can pay down large chunks of the national debt. And the Treasury is especially interested in cutting down on more expensive, long-term debt. 

 "Everything they said today is going to have a major, major impact on the yield curve," said Anthony Karydakis, senior financial economist at BancOne Capital Markets in Chicago. "It may make the yield curve meaningless as a benchmark for fixed-income securities." 

 One trader said the refunding announcement "confirmed what people suspected. They are basically eliminating the (30-year) bond, going down to one bond (auction) a year. The 10-year is the bellwether," the trader observed. 

 Supply is expected to shrink in other maturities as well. Treasury said it is considering further cutbacks, including the potential elimination of 52-week bills and a likely watering down of two-year note auction sizes. 

 "These aren't like old friends you want to keep around or cousins that you still have to have a room for," Treasury Under Secretary for Domestic Finance Gary Gensler said. 

 Gensler did little to prop up the 30-year's status Wednesday. 

 "I would say you have a transition in the market more and more to the 10-year sector and maintaining the benchmark status of all of our securities is important to us, but the focus is more and more on that 10-year note than the 30-year bond," he said. 

 With the market jittery over the dwindling supply, the Fed's rate increase was no cause for selling. The Federal Open Market Committee, concluding a two-day policy meeting, boosted the federal-funds target rate to 5.75% from 5.50%. It also raised the largely symbolic discount rate by a quarter point to 5.25%. The fed-funds rate is used for overnight loans between banks; the discount rate covers loans to troubled member banks through the Fed's rarely used discount window. 

 The central bank also adopted an implicit bias in favor of higher interest rates, saying economic risks remain "weighted toward conditions that may generate heightened inflation pressures." 

 Copyright (c) 2000 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument djon000020020330dw22011ca  



 HD News Highlights: Special Summary Of The Fed's Rate Move    WC731 words   PD2 February 2000   ET21:49   SNDow Jones International News   SCDJI   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- The Federal Reserve Open Market Committee voted Wednesday to raise rates 25 basis points. The following is a summary of the coverage that followed the fed's decision and can be found by using the code G/FED: 

 Verbatim Text 
   TD Fed Rate Hike Is Seen As First Of A Series In 2000 


The Federal Reserve attempted Wednesday for the fourth time in eight
months to curb an economy that has seemed resistant to control, raising
short-term U.S. interest rates and signaling that another increase may
be on the way. The central bank's Open Market Committee voted to raise
its key federal funds rate a quarter percentage point to 5.75%, a
four-year high. It also adopted an implicit bias in favor of higher
interest rates, saying economic risks remain "weighted toward conditions
that may generate heightened inflation pressures."
       Fed Watch: A Tightening Bias By Any Other Name



If not in name, a tightening bias by the Federal Reserve is in effect,
economists said. So unless economic data start showing a noticeable
weakening in the economy or turnaround in emerging price pressures,
expect the Fed to raise interest rates the next chance it gets, at the
March 21 rate board meeting.



POINT OF VIEW:Fed's Plain Talk Works; No Confusion Here



Let clarity ring. The Federal Reserve's maiden run in its new policy
of plainer talk accompanying its interest rate decisions has to be rated
a success. With all talk of biases and predilections cleared from the
underbrush, it seems quite evident to even the casual observer that
after Wednesday's 25-basis-point increase in short-term interest rates
the Fed remains very worried about potential inflation and stands
prepared to make further quarter-point rate increases at upcoming
regularly scheduled meetings.



N.Y. Stocks Outlook: Cautious Optimism Attends Rate Hike



U.S. equity strategists said they see some more good than they do bad,
and a lot of what they expected, in the outcome of the Federal Open
Market Committee meeting Wednesday. Most see as accommodating the move
by the Federal Reserve to hike interest rates by 25 basis points - the
most modest in scope decision available to central bankers - and to keep
a robust defense against rising inflation pressures alive.



Financial Markets Take Latest Rate Hike In Stride



Financial markets took in stride news that the Federal Reserve raised
the target for short-term rates by another quarter percentage point, as
it was widely expected to do. Among major asset classes, the Treasury's
30-year bond held on to its sharp early gains. The bond was up 1 13/32
to 97 11/32, yielding 6.32%. Other government securities - most of which
had been near unchanged ahead of the Fed decision - remained flat.
Non-government bonds were also largely unchanged from earlier levels.
The major stock indexes popped up, gyrated, then settled in at slightly
higher levels.



Euro Stages Brief Rally After U.S. Rate Hike



With a 25 basis-point hike in the Federal Reserve's key rate widely
expected and discounted, only one currency reacted noticeably to the
Wednesday's official announcement. After languishing in the low- to
mid-97 cent range for most of the New York session, the euro staged a
brief rally, breaking through minor resistance levels to reach an
intraday high of $0.9802 after the decision.



Trend Breaks: Charts Anticipated Yield Drop Before FOMC



Ever notice that for every market fundamental there's a market
technical and vice versa? Thus, just as the Fed announced its 25-basis
point rate increase, the U.S. 30-year yield was testing key resistance
at 6.338% - resistance that was support well before the Fed meeting. It
so happens that the yield had broken down below 6.338% early Wednesday.



Bank of Canada Seen A Lock To Follow Fed Hike On Thur



It would be a surprise of thunderous proportions should the Bank of
Canada decline to follow the quarter-percentage point hike in short term
rates announced Wednesday by the U.S. Federal Reserve, say Canadian
analysts. There is a near-unanimous consensus of opinion that the
Canadian central bank will duplicate the Fed hike Thursday at its usual
9:00 a.m. EST (1400 GMT) timestamp for announcing policy changes.

   RF4218   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m11 : Equity Markets | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument dji0000020010805dw2200mrf  



 HD Financial Markets Take Latest Rate Hike In Stride    BY By John Montgomery, Marianne Sullivan and Thomas Granahan    WC690 words   PD2 February 2000   ET21:18   SNDow Jones International News   SCDJI   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- Compared to wildly gyrating yield curves, constant reversals in stock-market leaders and other recent events that have unnerved investors, this was almost anticlimactic. 

 Financial markets took in stride news Wednesday that the Federal Reserve raised the target for short-term rates by another quarter percentage point, as it was widely expected to do. The Federal funds target rate now stands at 5.75%. 
   TD In making that move, the central bank's policy makers also said they remained concerned that increases in demand continue to exceed the growth in potential supply, "even after taking into account the pronounced rise in productivity growth." 

 That's nearly identical to the language the Fed used the last time it met, in December when policymakers chose to leave rates steady. It also gibes with the blueprint set out in the central bank's recent decision not to adopt a so-called bias about future rate moves but rather simply lay out its expectations regarding the risks to the economy. 

 Taken together, the rate hike - and the language used to justify it - suggested to most observers that the central bank would likely raise rates at least once more in the months ahead in order to keep the economy from overheating. 

 "I think the key message here is the Fed has told us they have more work to do," said Larry Hatheway, global head of strategy for fixed-income and foreign exchange at Warburg Dillon Read. 

 "This is carbon copy of the December statement" from the Fed, added James Glassman, senior economist at Chase Securities. "It's a quiet vote in favor of the gradualist tactic." 

 Among major asset classes, the Treasury's 30-year bond held on to its sharp early gains. The bond was up 1 13/32 to 97 11/32, yielding 6.32%. 

 Other government securities - most of which had been near unchanged ahead of the Fed decision around 2:15 p.m. EST - remained flat. Non-government bonds were also largely unchanged from earlier levels. 

 The major stock indexes popped up, gyrated, then settled in at slightly higher levels. Technology shares were still strong, and the Nasdaq Composite Index was up about 71 points in late afternoon trading. 

 Given that Wall Street had called the outcome of the meeting perfectly, there wasn't much to surprise equity players. 

 Analysts said it's likely that rates are going higher again in March, but that's a prospect investors can live with. 

 What they have a tougher time digesting is the fact that a series of hikes, even after Wednesday, might be necessary, stock strategists added, and that worry will likely keep a lid on upside moves in the next few weeks. 

 Some in the markets saw the possibility that the Fed could shift into a higher gear at Wednesday's meeting by raising rates by a half point instead of a quarter point. 

 But the central bank still seems to be content with a measured approach to fighting inflation. Wednesday's statement gave little indication that a sharper rate increase might be on the way. 

 "This is a gradualist Fed," said Marie Schofield, senior vice president and portfolio manager with Fleet Investment Advisors in Boston. "They make measured tightenings," she said, comparing it to the more extreme interest rate adjustments of 1994, when the Fed moved rates by as many as 75 basis points at a time. 

 Futures contracts based on the federal funds rate targeted by the Fed indicate that the market sees a smaller chance of a half-point move at upcoming meetings but has extended the time period during which more rate hikes are possible. 


Then again, Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan knows he will have ample
opportunity to prepare the market for a more aggressive approach if
necessary. Greenspan will deliver his semi-annual "Humphrey-Hawkins"
testimony before congress later this month. The Fed's next policy
meeting is set March 21.
   -By John Montgomery, Marianne Sullivan and Thomas
   Granahan (Victor Ozols and Tom Sullivan contributed
   to this story.)

   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m11 : Equity Markets | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument dji0000020010805dw2200mn8  



 HD Still Some Wrong-Way Bets Being Unwound In Treasurys    BY By Michael Casey    WC772 words   PD2 February 2000   ET18:50   SNDow Jones International News   SCDJI   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- Those who took Friday's dramatic "inversion" in the Treasurys yield curve as a buying opportunity are hurting Wednesday. 

 And their pain is one reason the curve has gotten itself into an even bigger twist. 
   TD Many such investors, along with others who defiantly held onto their so-called "flattening" positions when things went haywire Friday, are now giving in, traders say. They are closing out their trades and, in the process, pushing the inversion to extremes. 

 Inversion refers to an unusual state of affairs in the Treasurys market, as long-term debt yieldas reverse the normal order of things by yielding less than short-term issues. 

 With the 30-year bond rallying more than a point Wednesday morning after the Treasury Department surprised investors with news of a smaller-than-expected auction size for new debt at auction next week, the bond's yield is sharply below that of other securities. 

 Around midday, the bond yield was 28 basis points (a basis point is a hundredth of a percentage point) below the 10-year yield and 38 basis points away from the five-year note yield. That dramatic inversion comes on the heels of a similarly sharp move Friday, one that was itself exacerbated by a massive unwinding of positions by investors who had bet - wrongly - on a narrowing of those spreads. 

 "There's only one thing behind this move in the curve: P & L," said Vinnie Verterano, director of government trading at Nomura Securities, referring to the profit and loss demands imposed on many institutional investors. "That's all it comes down to. When you lose a certain amount of money, you get a tap on the shoulder." 


       Unique Circumstances Defy Fundamentals



Yet Verterano and many more believe yield differentials have gotten
way out of line with fundamentals and that, eventually, they should
drive the curve back toward a more positively shaped slope.



Typically, investors demand a higher yield from longer-dated
maturities to compensate for the added risks of holding those securities
for longer. When that rule is broken it has traditionally been regarded
as a harbinger of recession.



But very few foresee an end to the U.S. economy's expansion. Most
instead argue that a unique set of circumstances - namely, a dwindling
supply of new Treasury debt coinciding with rising concerns about
potential Federal Reserve interest rate increases - is destroying the
otherwise logical strategy of betting on a flatter yield curve.



Indeed, the apparent trigger for Tuesday's disruption - the refunding
announcement - fits into this scenario. Coming just hours before a
monetary policy decision by the Federal Open Market Committee it seemed
to leave investors little choice but to rush into the 30-year bond.



Under normal circumstances, the news should have been a boost for
five- and 10-year notes, as refunding plans for these maturities were
especially below market expectations. Some analysts say lower supply
could create liquidity problems for those instruments, but it is
generally seen as a fundamentally supportive development because it
leaves the same amount of money chasing fewer securities.



This time around, the forthcoming FOMC announcement complicated
things. If the Fed were to raise interest rates by 50 basis points - and
a large minority believe it will - the cost-of-carry for shorter-dated
market positions would increase, making them less attractive.



As such, investors seemed reluctant to aggressively buy into the short
end of the curve Tuesday and the long bond was the only place left to
make a bullish response to the refunding announcement.



The subsequent stampede simply hit the "flattener" positions where it
hurt.



It also affected other areas of the credit markets. For instance, swap
spreads widened sharply, dealers said.



                 Confusion



In all, says John Spinello, chief government strategist for Merrill
Lynch, the set of circumstances left the market confused.



"Under different circumstances, if rates weren't heading north, (the
Treasury announcement) might have a bigger effect" at the short end of
the curve, Spinello said. "But the whole thing was a little bit
disconcerting from a liquidity perspective ... less supply in a rising
rate environment is confusing to deal with."



Even so, Spinello said, the biggest factor in the twisting of the
curve is the overhang of positions that ran counter to that trend.



"There's no question about it. Just the behavior of the 10-year note
shows that a lot of trades are still getting hit without being able to
recover," he said.
-By Michael Casey, Dow Jones Newswires
-michael.j.casey@dowjones.com; 201-938-2009

   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m11 : Equity Markets | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument dji0000020010805dw2200mgi  



 HD POINT OF VIEW:Fed's Plain Talk Works; No Confusion Here    BY By Neal Lipschutz    WC774 words   PD2 February 2000   ET21:36   SNDow Jones News Service   SCDJ   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP A Dow Jones Newswires Column 

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- Let clarity ring. 
   TD The Federal Reserve's maiden run in its new policy of plainer talk accompanying its interest rate decisions has to be rated a success. With all talk of biases and predilections cleared from the underbrush, it seems quite evident to even the casual observer that after Wednesday's 25-basis-point increase in short-term interest rates the Fed remains very worried about potential inflation and stands prepared to make further quarter-point rate increases at upcoming regularly scheduled meetings. 

 The success of the new plain talk from the policy setting Federal Open Market Committee was aided and abetted by a unanimity about the macroeconomic situation that made Wednesday's rate decision universally expected. All the market economists surveyed by Dow Jones Newswires before this latest rate meeting predicted a 25-basis-point increase. No one dissented. And many saw it as the start of the first true Fed monetary policy tightening trend since 1997. 

 The Fed's comments accompanying the rate increase serve to cement the already widespread notion about more rate increases ahead to slow the steaming, tight labor economy. 

 The Fed said in part its policy makers believe "the risks are weighted mainly toward conditions that may generate heightened inflation pressures in the foreseeable future." The committee added that even after taking into account "pronounced" increases in productivity, it is concerned that "over time increases in demand will continue to exceed the growth in potential supply ..." That in turn might very well foster inflation growth that could undermine what is now a record long economic expansion. 

 Now depending on your own economic predilections, you could find reason to quibble with the Fed's mainstream thinking,. But you can't accuse FOMC members of being obscure. Maybe you think they're not giving enough credit to productivity growth and the technological advances behind it, which will help keep inflation under control even given the tight labor market. Maybe you think the incremental, 25-basis-point increase policy isn't strong enough medicine to tame a demand-driven economy fueled by sky-high stock prices. Agree or disagree, but you don't have to wonder, for now, where the Fed stands. 

 Contrast Wednesday's message with the middle of last year, when the Fed similarly raised interest rates 25 basis points. On June 30, 1999, the Fed said in part: "Owing to the uncertain resolution of the balance of conflicting forces in the economy going forward, the FOMC (Federal Open Market Committee) has chosen to adopt a directive that includes no predilection about near-term policy action." 

 There's that word predilection again, though the broader investment world preferred bias. And this "neutral bias" after a rate hike sent the stock market higher under the euphoric belief that the Fed's pre-emptive rate work against inflation was done. After all, the Fed was neutral, right? 

 But neutral didn't mean neutral, since the Fed did raise interest rates again, and if nothing else the mid-year 1999 statement sowed confusion among the uninitiated who didn't realize the Fed often historically went "neutral" after a rate increase, then saw more disturbing economic/inflation data and raised rates again. Things were more obscure in mid-1999 than they are now. 

 On Jan. 19, 2000, the Fed announced it was changing what it said after its policy meetings. Of the previous system it said: "It became apparent that the public was uncertain about the interpretation of the language used to characterize possible future developments ..." 

 The new plain talk doesn't mean the Fed can't and won't obfuscate when it wants to. And if economic conditions are less clear-cut at the time of future FOMC meetings than they are now, even this new system will create murkiness and confusion and debate among traders and investors about what the Fed is actually going to do. Fed watchers don't have to worry about being put out of business. 

 But for now the Fed has pretty clearly said what it means. Given tight labor markets, a strong economy, bullish stock markets, brimming consumer confidence and high energy prices, the Fed is mainly worried about a resurgence in inflation. All things staying the same, that means more interest rate increases in the months ahead. 


Now if markets decide to shrug off this notion and continue higher, at
least no one can say they were confused.
-By Neal Lipschutz, Dow Jones Newswires, 201 938 5152
 -neal.lipschutz@dowjones.com

   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument dj00000020010805dw2200jce  



 HD SMARTMONEY.COM: The Fed Countdown Begins    BY By Rebecca Thomas    WC861 words   PD2 February 2000   ET01:26   SNDow Jones News Service   SCDJ   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP Smartmoney.com 

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- It's that time again. Alan Greenspan and his pals at the Federal Reserve will unleash their latest interest-rate policy Wednesday at 2:15 p.m. EST. Will it be an aggressive, half-point move or a softer, quarter-point hike? And will the doves or the hawks at the Fed win influence over the accompanying policy statement? 
   TD Tuesday, the markets bet that the Fed Chairman will lift interest rates just enough to pre-empt inflation and engineer a soft economic landing. Putting their faith in a vigilant, yet gradualist Fed, investors bid up both stocks and bonds in advance of tomorrow's decision. 

 The consensus among economists calls for the Fed to raise the benchmark federal funds rate (for the fourth time since June) to 5.75% from 5.50%. A quarter-point increase in the discount rate - the rate that the Fed charges member banks for loans - also can't be ruled out, says Kevin Flanagan, money market economist at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter. The discount rate currently stands at 5.0%. 

 "A no-move is not an option," says Warburg Dillon Read's Treasury market analyst Patrick Dimick, citing red-hot economic growth in the second half of 1999 and signs of continuing momentum early this year. While accelerating productivity has allowed the economy to achieve a higher growth potential, gross domestic product is still expanding too quickly for most Fed officials, echoes Donaldson Lufkin & Jenrette money market economist Marilyn Schaja. 

 The market's reaction to Wednesday's decision will largely depend on the Fed's policy statement, says renowned Fed watcher David Jones of Aubrey G. Lanston. While the Fed recently decided to stop issuing a bias toward future rate hikes, it will still convey its message in one of three potential statements. Most economists expect the Fed to highlight that economic risks are "weighted mainly toward conditions that may generate heightened inflation pressures." 

 Since that statement - which Jones compares to the old tightening bias - would be consistent with forecasts for one or two more interest rate hikes in the spring, Jones thinks any relief rally in stocks and bonds will be limited. Flanagan points out that a quarter-point move has already been priced into stocks, so is "unlikely to elicit much of a response in the marketplace." 

 While no one doubts the Fed will tighten, investors have recently been fretting about a more drastic, half-point move. The federal funds futures market has priced in a 35% chance of a 50-basis point hike tomorrow. Whiffs of inflation contained in last week's gross domestic product and employment cost index only stoked fears that Greenspan would need to act more aggressively. 

 But many market watchers think the Fed is more likely to enact a series of modest hikes over the next few months than to enact one big move. By acting gradually, but steadily, Greenspan should be able to bring economic growth down to a more sustainable 3.25% to 3.75% level, Jones says. 

 Since inflation remains fairly tame, Greenspan can probably afford to move slowly. Employment costs rose strongly in December, but 1999 levels were below those in the year-ago period and the same as in 1997. While oil prices have buoyed headline consumer and producer prices, core levels (which exclude volatile food and energy prices) remained tame in 1999. "Companies cannot afford to raise prices because of intense competition, nor is it necessary because of strong productivity gains," says Merrill Lynch senior economist Gerald Cohen. 

 Moreover, Greenspan has historically taken a measured approach to monetary tightening. "Greenspan is a gradual kind of guy," notes Salomon Smith Barney equity strategist Marshall Acuff. And the chairman has not prepared the markets for a departure from that style. "Sneak attacks are not in the Fed's playbook at the present time," says Dimick. 

 If the Fed does indeed push through a 50 basis-point move, the reaction is less predictable. Were Greenspan to suggest at the same time that a half-point hike would take care of things, the markets could perceive that the Fed is finished and rally accordingly. Of course, that scenario is exactly what Greenspan wants to avoid. Earlier this month, the chairman expressed concerns that the ballooning wealth effect is contributing to the imbalance between supply and demand. "The Fed would prefer to keep the markets guessing about the future direction of interest rates," says Tucker Anthony chief economist Kathleen Camilli. A half-point hike, accompanied by a hawkish statement, of course, would probably hammer the equity markets by suggesting the Fed's outlook is grim. 

 Whatever happens, investors are bound to seize on the next question: How much more tightening is on the way? "The market really can't run away on the upside" in an environment of rising interest rates," says Acuff. "There are still a lot of stocks that could lose momentum as time goes on." His advice? "Sit back and relax." 

 For more information and analysis of companies and mutual funds, visit SmartMoney.com at http://www.smartmoney.com/
   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument dj00000020010805dw2200ipy  

HDNewscast:  Federal Reserve  raises short-term interest rates   WC371 words   PD2 February 2000   SNNBC News: Nightly News   SCNTLN   LAEnglish   CY(c) Copyright 2000, NBC Universal Inc. All Rights Reserved.    
   LPTOM BROKAW, anchor:

The cost of money went up again today. As expected, the Federal Reserve raised short-term interest rates a quarter of a percentage point in still another bid to try to keep inflation in check in this red-hot economy. Joining me now with more on all this tonight, NBC's Kelly O'Donnell. Kelly:
   TDKELLY O'DONNELL reporting:

Good evening, Tom. Today's interest rate hike, the fourth since June, intended to cool the red-hot economy and keep inflation in check, but the jump also means less money in the checking accounts of home owners and credit card users.

First-time home buyers and new parents Scott and Kerri Dillard are house hunting again today. New pressure on top of their five-month search for an affordable home, higher interest rates.

Ms. KERRI DILLARD: We're going to have to keep renting, pay somebody else's mortgage essentially, and just wait on our dream.

O'DONNELL: The quarter percent raise in the interest rate no surprise on Wall Street. But the pinch much more unsettling on Main Street, where the payment on a $100,000 mortgage will now cost $768 a month. The extra interest for the year: $211.

Mr. BILL ANDERSON (Bankrate.com Publisher): The consumer's very conscious of what's happening here. So the--the idea of interest rates going up will probably tend to slow consumer purchases down.

O'DONNELL: But that prediction comes off a record year for new home sales. Figures just out today, more than 900,000 new houses went up in 1999, a 2 percent jump. Many of those down payments profit from the booming stock market. Analysts say this latest interest rate increase should not worry investors.

Mr. JOE BATTIPAGLIA (Gruntal & Co. Chief Market Strategist): The move today suggests that the inflation danger is not imminent, and that's a reassurance the market needs at this time.

O'DONNELL: And the interest rate climb is not over yet. Experts predict the Federal Reserve will probably raise rates another quarter percent when the board meets again next month. Tom:

BROKAW: Thanks very much, NBC's Kelly O'Donnell tonight.
   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1202 : Interest Rates | ntra : Transcript | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBBurrelle's Information Services   ANDocument NTLN000020081125dw22000cy  



 HDWait for Fed puts dollar on an even keel     BYJANE PADGHAM     WC260 words   PD2 February 2000   SNThe Evening Standard   SCNS   EDC   PG39   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2000 Associated Newspapers. All rights reserved  
   LPWILD gyrations in the dollar in early trading were later ironed out as dealers began to retire to the sidelines ahead of tonight's interest rate decision by the US Federal Reserve.  

Although most expect the Fed's Open Market Committee to raise rates by a quarter-point to 5.75%, a half-point move by Australia's central bank overnight sparked talk the Fed could follow suit. The speculation pushed the US dollar to five-month highs of 109 yen in Asian trading. But the rally was reversed after Japanese Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa said he would not endorse a further weakening of the yen. The dollar shed almost a yen, later stabilising at around 108.50.  
   TDThe Fed is expected to nudge up rates to keep inflation in check. It will be hoping its rate announcement goes more smoothly than that from the Reserve Bank of Australia, which inadvertently issued the news six minutes early to a handful of banks.  

The gaffe caused panic trading as recipients sought to take advantage of the advance knowledge. Meanwhile, the euro failed to capitalise on the dollar's nerves, hovering just above 97 cents. It shrugged off comments from Bundesbank council member Hans-JOrgen Krupp that there was no need for the European Central Bank to lift interest rates tomorrow.  

The pound reacted badly to news from the Confederation of British Industry that High Street activity slowed in January. Sterling slipped to a six-week low of $1.6069.  
   RF950141042   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | ecat : Economic News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPDUSA | INTEREST RATES   PUBAssociated Newspapers   ANDocument NS00000020061019dw2200awg  



 HDFed  interest rate  rise jitters hit dollar     BYJANE PADGHAM     WC277 words   PD2 February 2000   SNThe Evening Standard   SCNS   EDB   PG39   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2000 Associated Newspapers. All rights reserved  
   LPJITTERS ahead of the US Federal Reserve's interest rates decision tonight triggered wild gyrations in the dollar in early trading today.  

Although most expect the Fed's Open Market Committee to raise rates by a quarter-point to 5.75%, a half-point move by Australia's central bank overnight sparked talk that the Fed could follow suit. The speculation pushed the US dollar to five-month highs in Asian trading to 109 yen.  
   TDBut the rally was later reversed after Japanese Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa said he would not endorse a further weakening of the yen and the dollar fell back to 108.35 yen. The euro was slightly lower at 97.12 cents The Fed is expected to nudge up rates in order to keep inflation in check. It will be hoping its rate announcement will go smoother than that from the Reserve Bank of Australia, which inadvertently issued the news six minutes early to a handful of banks. The gaffe caused panic trading as recipients sought to take advantage of the advance knowledge.  

At home, the latest Confederation of British Industry retailing survey showed High Street activity slowed in January, but by less than retailers had feared.  

Chemists, grocers and household goods stores did well while shoe shops and specialist food stores reported a significant drop in sales.  

The CBI said the underlying trend in sales growth was holding up but not accelerating. Alastair Eperon, chairman of the survey's panel, said: "There is nothing in this survey to put at risk the Chancellor's inflation target and justify further interest rate rises."  

-  
   RF950141040   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | ecat : Economic News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPDUSA | INTEREST RATES   PUBAssociated Newspapers   ANDocument NS00000020061019dw2200awe  



 HDWait for Fed puts dollar on an even keel     BYJANE PADGHAM     WC260 words   PD2 February 2000   SNThe Evening Standard   SCNS   EDC   PG39   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2000 Associated Newspapers. All rights reserved  
   LPWILD gyrations in the dollar in early trading were later ironed out as dealers began to retire to the sidelines ahead of tonight's interest rate decision by the US Federal Reserve.  

Although most expect the Fed's Open Market Committee to raise rates by a quarter-point to 5.75%, a half-point move by Australia's central bank overnight sparked talk the Fed could follow suit. The speculation pushed the US dollar to five-month highs of 109 yen in Asian trading. But the rally was reversed after Japanese Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa said he would not endorse a further weakening of the yen. The dollar shed almost a yen, later stabilising at around 108.50.  
   TDThe Fed is expected to nudge up rates to keep inflation in check. It will be hoping its rate announcement goes more smoothly than that from the Reserve Bank of Australia, which inadvertently issued the news six minutes early to a handful of banks.  

The gaffe caused panic trading as recipients sought to take advantage of the advance knowledge. Meanwhile, the euro failed to capitalise on the dollar's nerves, hovering just above 97 cents. It shrugged off comments from Bundesbank council member Hans-JOrgen Krupp that there was no need for the European Central Bank to lift interest rates tomorrow.  

The pound reacted badly to news from the Confederation of British Industry that High Street activity slowed in January. Sterling slipped to a six-week low of $1.6069.  
   RF950141042   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | ecat : Economic News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPDUSA | INTEREST RATES   PUBAssociated Newspapers   ANDocument NS00000020060407dw2200fp1  



 HDFed  interest rate  rise jitters hit dollar     BYJANE PADGHAM     WC277 words   PD2 February 2000   SNThe Evening Standard   SCNS   EDB   PG39   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2000 Associated Newspapers. All rights reserved  
   LPJITTERS ahead of the US Federal Reserve's interest rates decision tonight triggered wild gyrations in the dollar in early trading today.  

Although most expect the Fed's Open Market Committee to raise rates by a quarter-point to 5.75%, a half-point move by Australia's central bank overnight sparked talk that the Fed could follow suit. The speculation pushed the US dollar to five-month highs in Asian trading to 109 yen.  
   TDBut the rally was later reversed after Japanese Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa said he would not endorse a further weakening of the yen and the dollar fell back to 108.35 yen. The euro was slightly lower at 97.12 cents The Fed is expected to nudge up rates in order to keep inflation in check. It will be hoping its rate announcement will go smoother than that from the Reserve Bank of Australia, which inadvertently issued the news six minutes early to a handful of banks. The gaffe caused panic trading as recipients sought to take advantage of the advance knowledge.  

At home, the latest Confederation of British Industry retailing survey showed High Street activity slowed in January, but by less than retailers had feared.  

Chemists, grocers and household goods stores did well while shoe shops and specialist food stores reported a significant drop in sales.  

The CBI said the underlying trend in sales growth was holding up but not accelerating. Alastair Eperon, chairman of the survey's panel, said: "There is nothing in this survey to put at risk the Chancellor's inflation target and justify further interest rate rises."  

-  
   RF950141040   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | ecat : Economic News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPDUSA | INTEREST RATES   PUBAssociated Newspapers   ANDocument NS00000020060407dw2200foz  



 SENews   HDRate rise: it's the size that really matters   BYTony Boyd Global Markets Editor      WC598 words   PD2 February 2000   SNThe Australian Financial Review   SCAFNR   EDLate   PG1   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2000. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.   
   LPThe Reserve Bank of Australia is expected to raise official interest rates today by a quarter of a per cent to 5.25 per cent in the second of a series of moves aimed at heading off an outbreak of inflation.

The RBA board met in Sydney yesterday and is expected to announce the change to the official cash rate today at 9.30am.
   TDWhile the market consensus is for a 25 basis point rise, some commentators say the RBA should increase rates by 50 basis points in preparation for the inflationary impact of the GST and personal income tax cuts in July.

But business, farming and real estate lobby groups say a rise is unnecessary and would harm sectors of the economy with substantial bank debt.

The Australian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the National Farmers Federation and the Real Estate Institute said the conditions did not warrant an interest rate rise.

"Now that farmers may finally benefit out of the Australian economy and with a better-than-expected national inflation figure of 1.8 per cent, we have to question why interest rates need to be increased," said Mr Colin Nicholl, senior vice-president of the WA Farmers Federation.

Financial markets were subdued yesterday, with the Australian dollar treading water around US63.50¢, the benchmark All Ordinaries stock index down 11.5 points to 3084.5 and the yield on 10-year government bonds up one basis point to 7.19 per cent.

Several other central banks have either raised official interest rates in the past week or are about to do so.

New Zealand's central bank raised rates last week and the European Central Bank is expected to raise rates next week.

The US Federal Reserve Board is expected to announce a 25 basis-points rise in its Federal Funds rate to 5.75 per cent after its two-day meeting ends tomorrow Australian time.

In the US, financial markets have been gripped by extreme volatility in the lead-up to the latest rate rise after the release of figures showing the US economy grew at an annual rate of 6 per cent in the second half of 1999.

Those figures spooked the equity, bond and currency markets because it shortened the odds that the US would lift rates by 50 basis points.

Concerns that the Fed would go up by 50 basis points contributed to a US3¢ sell-off in the Australian dollar last Friday night.

"The risk for the market remains the currency," said Mr Richard Grace, senior economist at WestLB. "A 25 basis-point move by the RBA carries the risk that the currency could temporarily sell-off after the announcement. A surprise 50 basis-point rate hike could generate the opposite effect."

Bond market investors in Australia and the US have been bearish heading into the RBA and Fed meetings on rates.

A survey by Stone & McCarthy Research Associates found that Australian money-fund managers shortened their portfolios in the past week.

Looking ahead, Australian bond managers are more pessimistic on the market, with Stone&McCarthy's short-term bull index dropping to its lowest point in three weeks.

Bond investors in the US are short going into the Fed meeting, according to statistics on traders' commitments.

Mr Stewart Tan, fixed-interest strategist at Deutsche Asset Management, said the CBOT data showed that investors were pessimistic but that usually meant any sell-off after a rate rise would be modest.

Chanticleer, back page
   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | npag : Page-One Story | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types   REaustr : Australia | namz : North America | sydney : Sydney | usa : United States | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | nswals : New South Wales   PUBFairfax Media Management Pty Limited   ANDocument AFNR000020111227dw22017ra  



 SEInvestment   HDUncertainty over rate increase   BYBill McConnell      WC663 words   PD2 February 2000   SNThe Australian Financial Review   SCAFNR   EDLate   PG35   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2000. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.   
   LPMoney

The Australian bond and currency markets remained on tenterhooks yesterday awaiting the expected announcement of an increase in official interest rates by the Reserve Bank of Australia at 9.30 this morning.
   TDFinancial markets around the globe are all in similar positions, with policy meetings by the European Central Bank and the United States Federal Open Market Committee likely to result in higher regional interest rates.

While there is general agreement that the RBA will raise official interest rates this morning, there is still uncertainty over the size of the increase. Analysts who believe a 50 basis point rate rise is warranted argue that despite low headline inflation figures, the best news is clearly past and that lately there has been a surge in upstream price indicators such as manufacturing output.

However, the majority of analysts believe that the RBA will announce only a 25-point rise in interest rates, citing easing wage pressures and the announcement last Friday of benign inflation figures.

The Australian dollar declined further in value against the US dollar yesterday as talk of a 50 basis point increase in local interest rates began to lose momentum. A rally in the Australian dollar is unlikely in the near term unless rates are lifted by a half per cent. The more likely scenario of a 25 basis point increase could possibly inspire a further sell-off on the $A/$US cross.

However, from the point of view of long-term predictions, several analysts have vastly different opinions on the outlook for the Australian dollar.

Ms Jo Masters, currency strategist at Macquarie Bank believes that the fundamentals supporting the Australian dollar remain intact.

"Our research indicates that commodity prices remain the key influence on trends in the $A, and we continue to expect further improvement in Australia's commodity prices over the course of 2000," she said in her currency perspective.

However, Mr Clifford Bennett, senior treasury strategist at BNP, and Mr Max McKegg, formally of the Bank of New Zealand, now heading Technical Research Limited in New Zealand, both believe that the local dollar has a long way to go in its current down trend.

"I think in the short term, the $A has the potential to rally slightly, perhaps up to around US65¢," Mr McKegg said.

"However, following that, what we will see is a fairly ceaseless decline in value down to around US50¢. I'm confident we have seen the high for the year of US66.85¢."

In the US market, the price of US Treasuries fell, ending a six-day rally, with the yields on some securities falling by as much as a quarter of 1 per cent, with the yield on the bellwether 30-year note rising from 6.45 per cent to 6.49 per cent.

With the US Federal Reserve poised to raise interest rates for a fourth time since June and the Treasury ready to announce details of its planned quarterly debt sales today, as well as a significant jobs report on Friday, most traders were not surprised that the six-day rally came to a halt.

Bond prices in Australia remained steady ahead of this morning's announcement on interest rates. The yield on the local benchmark September 2009 bond rose one basis point to 7.18 per cent.

BULL VS BEAR

"The Australian dollar has begun to reflect the real as opposed to the perceived fundamentals. Currencies are about global relativities, not just the domestic economy. Australia simply isnt competitive enough in the new global market place above US65."

Cliford Bennett, Senior treasury strategist at BNP

"Traditionally the $A is driven by commodity prices however, lately is has been hard to focus on anything other than the interest rate differential between us and the US. It seems to be that commodity prices are managing to hold on to their gains and the Australian dollar fundamentals remain sound."

Gavin Stacey, Chief strategistat TD Securities
   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News   REaustr : Australia | usa : United States | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | namz : North America   PUBFairfax Media Management Pty Limited   ANDocument AFNR000020111227dw22017qb  

HDAnalysis:  Federal Reserve  expected to raise interest rates   WC1,231 words   PD1 February 2000   SNNBC News: Today   SCTODA   LAEnglish   CY(c) Copyright 2000, NBC Universal Inc. All Rights Reserved.    
   LPMATT LAUER, co-host:

Now to your money. The Federal Reserve meets in Washington today and tomorrow, and is expected to raise interest rates. That hike would come after the market's worst January in a decade.
   TDSo what does that mean for your investments? Joe Battipaglia is a market analyst at Gruntal & Company, and Tyler Mathisen watches it all for CNBC.

Good morning to both of you.

Mr. TYLER MATHISEN (CNBC): Good morning, Matt.

Mr. JOE BATTIPAGLIA (Gruntal & Company): Good morning.

LAUER: Tyler, I'm going to start with you, because Joe is sitting here with his bull cuff links on, so we know what he's going to say. Let's talk about these interest rate hikes. Is it a foregone conclusion? Will they go up?

Mr. MATHISEN: I think it is all but a foregone conclusion. The Fed policy makers are meeting today and tomorrow down in Washington, and most of the betting on Wall Street and elsewhere is that the Fed will raise interest rates by at least one quarter of one percentage points--point right now, and maybe by at least another quarter of a percentage point or even more than that before it is all done. That's because the Fed's view is that the economy is moving along at a sprinter's clip, and it would rather see it moving along at a steady marathoner's pace.

LAUER: Let's say they make that announcement tomorrow, the Fed makes that announcement. Do you do expect a major reaction on Wall Street, or because we've seen such volatility in the last month, has Wall Street already reacted?

Mr. MATHISEN: I think maybe Mr. Battipaglia would be the better answerer there, but my guess is that an awful lot of the anticipation is already built into stock prices, because people have been expecting this kind of interest rate hike for some time now. And that maybe if it gets done tomorrow, the market might even go up, because then they'll think that, `Well, maybe the--maybe it's--a lot of the pain is past us.'

LAUER: Joe, what about that? First of all, do you agree that we'll see a quarter percentage point increase tomorrow, and then perhaps another raise soon?

Mr. BATTIPAGLIA: The only possible surprise is if they don't raise tomorrow. But the important announcement's going to be their description of the US economy on the heels of the increase. Do they see inflation, or are they being pre-emptive? Are they anticipating a potential future problem? That's the key. And if the language speaks that way, it will be very positive for the stock market.

LAUER: Apparently, some people are seeing inflation. Some numbers came out, personal income is up, spending for December up, labor costs increasing. You don't see that as a sign of increasing inflation?

Mr. BATTIPAGLIA: The beauty of the US economy is, wages going up, spending going up, incomes going up is a positive cycle effect in the economy. It continues to let it grow as long as the supply of goods is there to meet the demand. And we have that because the economy is efficient and we are importing to meet our requirements. So there's no blockages in this system which allows for this ongoing prosperity now at the ele--10th year of expansion.

LAUER: For both of you, if the Fed decides to raise interest rates by a half a percentage point tomorrow, in other words a more dramatic step, do we see a negative impact on Wall Street? Joe, you start.

Mr. BATTIPAGLIA: I do. I think the language then is that we do have an inflationary problem. We want to be pre-emptive. Understand, that they raised rates six times in 1994 and that gave way to a five-year bull market of great proportion. This kind of adjustment here is not necessarily a bad thing. If they move aggressively, it could be problematic.

LAUER: Tyler?

Mr. MATHISEN: I agree with Joe. I think that if it goes up a half point and the--and the wording, as Joe points out, is much more sort of pre-emptive and worrisome about inflation, that the market would not take that well.

And I'd kind of digress a little bit from what Joe says, inflation ran at 2.7 percent last year, the strongest base in about three years. And energy costs, and boy they--they like to strip those energy costs out of the inflation number, but I'm paying them. I can't strip them out of my budget. My cost for energy, fueling my house, and keeping gas in my car, and food, has gone up in the past year.

LAUER: People have been pretty nervous, Tyler, over the past month with all the volatility on Wall Street. There is this kind of adage that `As January goes, so goes the year on Wall Street.' Should we be worried about that?

Mr. MATHISEN: Well, the predictor of January as a predictor is pretty good. It's about 80 percent accurate. About eight out of 10 times, what happens in January in terms of the direction of the market is what happens for the full year.

However, when January is a down month, as it will be this month, as it was last month, the predictability is only about six in 10 times. And on the other side of the coin, election years tend to be positive years. Twenty-nine out of the 42 election years dating all the way back to the 1830s, the market has ended the year higher than it began.

So there's two things working here. The January effect would suggest that the year may be a negative year, and in fact only one time in the past 50 years when January was down was the S&P 500 higher by more than 10 percent for the year. On the other hand, the election year tends to be a pretty good predictor.

Mr. BATTIPAGLIA: And we have the Rams win the Super Bowl.

LAUER: There you go, and hemlines also in the right place for the stock market?

Mr. BATTIPAGLIA: No but clearly the election is a critical element in this analysis, and the state of the US economy, which is very robust right now.

LAUER: So small investors, Joe. What should--first of all they should probably go out and borrow some money today, because rates are going to go up, but what should they do about buying stock?

Mr. BATTIPAGLIA: They should go in there and buy the stocks that they don't own, that they want to own, build out the positions that they have, and a growth investor should be 100 percent invested through these ideal times of low inflation and a very strong US economy, and a global position and opportunity that we've never seen before.

LAUER: Bullish as ever?

Mr. BATTIPAGLIA: Absolutely.

Joe Battipaglia, thanks.

Tyler Mathisen. Tyler, thanks to you, to.

Mr. MATHISEN: Thank you, Matt.

LAUER: And by the way, you can follow the markets all day long on CNBC on cable.

It's 7:49. We're back with more on a Tuesday morning, right after this.
   NSntra : Transcript | nanl : Analysis | e1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBBurrelle's Information Services   ANDocument TODA000020081125dw21000mt  

HD Housing Market in Albany, N.Y., Area Stays Strong    BY Jo-Ann Johnston    WC529 words   PD1 February 2000   SNOklahoma   SCKRTBN   LAEnglish   CY Copyright (C) 2000 KRTBN Knight Ridder Tribune Business News; Source: World Reporter (TM) 
   LP It was another good year for single-family home sales in 1999, and real estate agents expect the good conditions to continue even if interest rates climb this week, as expected. 

 "Prices have stabilized, and in some cases, started to appreciate," said Peter Staniels, president of GCAR for 2000. 
   TD As a result, people are more likely in the current real estate market than in previous years to break even or make a profit when they resell their homes. 

 The number of new and existing homes sold in the Capital Region last year was 9 percent above 1998, the year in which the regional real estate market started to improve, according to the Greater Capital Association of Realtors. 

 All told, 7,961 homes sold in 1999 in Albany, Rensselaer, Saratoga, Schenectady and Montgomery counties, and in some outlying areas. 

 Growth in the job market and consumer confidence are keeping the demand for homes steady, said Staniels. 

 He said those factors are more important than an anticipated rise in interest rates. 

 Many analysts expect the Federal Reserve to boost interest rates by a quarter of a percentage point Wednesday at the end of a two-day meeting. 

 The Fed bumped up interest rates three times last year, and analysts believe the central bank will do it again to keep inflation under control. 

 Such a development won't change the number of home buyers as much as it will affect their choice of financing, Staniels said. 

 He expects more buyers to shift to variable interest-rate mortgages to finance their purchases. 

 Fixed-rate loans have been popular while rates have been low, he said. 

 A tight supply of homes in the regional market probably will keep home prices from falling, Staniels added. 

 Still, the Realtors association isn't expecting 2000 to be the big-volume year for sales that 1999 was. 

 "Every year can't break a record," said James Ader, the association's executive vice president. 

 Among the four major counties in the region, Saratoga County led the pack in 1999. 

 Sales there increased 13 percent over the previous year to 2,475, and the median price was the highest in the area at $130,000. 

 "Saratoga County is our growth corridor," Staniels said. 

 "There's land, and there's access to it." A bounce in construction of new homes in the county helped push the values up because new construc tion always costs more than existing homes. 

 Rensselaer County also was helped by new construction, Staniels noted. 

 Sales increased 12 percent over the previous year to 1,056, and the median home sales price of $94,000 gained 3 percent over 1998. 

 By contrast, in Schenectady County, where economic activity is slower and most of the homes sold are existing structures, the median price for 1999 was $85,000, down 1 percent from the year before. 

 The number of transactions increased 9 percent to 1,302. 

 In Albany County, the market in creased slightly, with the number of homes sold increasing by 4 percent in 1999 to 2,352. 

 The median sales price held steady at $113,000. 
   INi85 : Real Estate Transactions | icre : Construction/Real Estate   NSc31 : Marketing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPC53121 | 6531   IPDInterest Rates | Economic Indicators | Economic News | Sales | Marketing | Company News | United States of America, Americas~US | Americas | North America | Pacific Rim | Oklahoma | Real Estate Agents Managers | Offices of Real Estate Agents & Brokers   ANDocument krtbn00020010807dw2100cf8  
 Page 1 of 1     © 2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.


 

 Page 1     © 2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.

