 


 HDFed raises rates again and hints more to come.   BYBy GERARD BAKER.    WC638 words   PD22 March 2000   SNFinancial Times   SCFTFT   PG33   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2000 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPLITTLE SIGN OF SLOWDOWN AS QUARTER POINT RISE TAKES KEY LENDING FIGURE TO 6%.

The Federal Reserve redoubled its efforts to slow the pace of US economic growth yesterday with another quarter point increase in short-term interest rates.
   TDThe central bank's open market committee raised its key lending rate to 6 per cent, and hinted there was more to come. It was the fifth time in nine months the fed funds target rate had been raised.

The Fed's board also raised its largely symbolic discount rate by the same amount to 5.5 per cent.

"Against the background of long-run goals of price stability and sustainable economic growth ... the committee believes the risks are weighted toward conditions that may generate heightened inflation pressures in the foreseeable future," the FOMC said.

It remained concerned that increases in demand would "continue to exceed the growth in potential supply, which could foster inflationary imbalances that would undermine the economy's record economic expansion".

The latest increase sends short-term rates to their highest level since the spring of 1991, when the Fed began aggressively cutting them to stimulate recovery from the last recession.

Financial markets had been expecting the increase and were largely unmoved. Since last June, the Fed has raised short-term rates by 1.25 percentage points, but has so far failed to damp the economy's fires.

Gross domestic product grew at an annual rate of 6.9 per cent in the last three months of 1999, and early data for the first quarter of this year suggest that, while growth is slowing somewhat, the pace remains well above 4 per cent. This is still in excess of what Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman, and his colleagues regard as a safe rate.

Most economists expect another half point increase in rates, probably in two instalments beginning with the next FOMC meeting on May 16. What happens next will depend on whether the economy shows clear signs of a slowdown.

Interest rate changes tend to work with relatively long time lags of up to a year, and there are now indications that the higher rates may be starting to bite into some sectors of the economy such as the housing market. Higher oil prices are also expected to damp demand.

And in spite of a surge in prices of technology stocks over the past year, broader financial market indices are little changed on a year ago.

Fed officials have said they are not targeting stock prices - but they believe increased equity market wealth has fed directly into faster rates of consumer spending growth.

If there are no clear signs of a broader-based slowdown soon, the Fed may feel it needs to take more aggressive action, perhaps raising rates by more than the incremental, quarter-points it has made so far.

Behind the Fed's gradual approach is uncertainty about the performance of the so-called "new economy".

Most economists agree that technological and other changes have improved the economy's long-run performance, enabling it to grow faster without prompting inflation. But no-one can say what the new rate of sustainable growth is. Lex, Page 32

European technology stocks slide

The slide in European technology stocks captured some high-profile victims yesterday, as recent internet debutants fell below their offer prices.

Both World Online, the Dutch internet service provider, and Lastminute.com, which specialises in last-minute deals, closed beneath offer prices set last week.

More established names also fell, including Tiscali of Italy, down more than 10 per cent to Euros 774.95 ( #474.23), and Terra Networks of Spain, down nearly 9 per cent at Euros 90.95. Report, Page 43.

Copyright Financial Times Limited 2000. All Rights Reserved. 
   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1101 : Economic Growth | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument ftft000020010808dw3m01j1x  



 HDFed urged to curb margin requirements.   BYBy CHRISTOPHER BOWE.    WC348 words   PD22 March 2000   SNFinancial Times   SCFTFT   PG3   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2000 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPThe Federal Reserve should consider raising margin requirements, instead of interest rates, to remedy its concerns about share valuations, urged economists and lawmakers yesterday at a congressional hearing.

The testimony before a House of Representatives banking subcommittee pointedly questioned why the Fed's concerns for skyrocketing technology shares could not be better handled by curbing the flow of borrowed money into the market. The testimony echoed a rising Wall Street concern that the Fed's use of interest rates to cool the stock market could do more harm than good in the long run.
   TDIn the meantime, the Fed's policymaking Federal Open Market Committee raised its key interest rate yesterday for the fifth time in nine months to 6 per cent. The Fed has not changed the margin requirement, currently 50 per cent, since 1974. Stocks bought on margin, or with borrowed money, rose 8.9 per cent in February and 6.5 per cent in January. Overall, margin debt has reached $265bn, and risen by $83bn since last October.

Since it appears that the Fed's goal is to temper the stock market to ease consumer spending fostered by the wealth effect, panellists testified a rise in margin requirements might be a more precise instrument.

"Why not use a scalpel instead of a sledgehammer," said Charles Schumer, a US senator from New York, who hoped a study by the Fed and the Securities and Exchange Commission could help crystallise the issue with its release in a month.

Alan Greenspan, Fed chairman, has argued there is no direct correlation between margin changes and share prices. Others argue that margin increases hurt smaller investors, who are an increasing user of borrowed money to finance investments.

Many market observers have credited the Nasdaq's recent rise to a surge in borrowing to buy stocks. Moreover, it raises concerns that a sudden drop in the market could prompt investors to sell shares to cover margin calls, which could potentially send the market reeling.

Copyright Financial Times Limited 2000. All Rights Reserved. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m11 : Equity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument ftft000020010808dw3m01ik2  



 HD ANALYSIS-Fears of Australia-U.S rates gap overblown.    BY By Victoria Thieberger    WC717 words   PD22 March 2000   ET03:14   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2000 Reuters Limited
   LP SYDNEY, March 22 (Reuters) - Concerns over a widening interest rate gap between Australia and the U.S. that have crimped the local dollar in recent weeks have been overdone, analysts said on Wednesday. 

 After the U.S. Federal Reserve raised official rates by a quarter-percentage point overnight to 6.0 percent and signalled more to come, analysts said the Reserve Bank of Australia will not be far behind in its next tightening. U.S. rates now stand half a percentage point above those in Australia, as was the case at the start of the year. 
   TD "People seem to have forgotten that more often than not Australian rates have been under the U.S. for the past two-and-a-half years," said HSBC chief economist John Edwards. 

 Hovering around 61 U.S. cents, the Australian dollar proved resilient to news of the Fed rate hike as the market's worst fears of a 50 basis point tightening proved unfounded and speculation turned to the timing of the next rate rise by the Reserve Bank. 

 The RBA meets twice more before the next U.S. Federal Open Market Committee meeting in mid-May, and is expected to raise rates by at least another 25 basis points from 5.5 percent. 

 RBA SET FOR MAY 

 Most economists believe the RBA, whose board meets to discuss rates policy on the first Tuesday of each month, will move in May. 

 "Had the Australian dollar reacted very unfavourably this morning then April might have been a better chance, but under these circumstances the RBA can stick to its preferred timetable which I suspect would be May," Edwards said. 

 That will follow the next inflation and wage reports at the end of April, plus another round of monthly activity figures that will clarify whether the recent spate of soft economic releases was indeed just an aberration, as the RBA has argued. 

 Only one major release, the retail trade report for February, is due before the April board meeting of the RBA. 

 And the March quarter inflation figures are likely to show a sharp spike in the annual rate to close to three percent, fuelled by the recent rise in oil prices and a low quarterly figure dropping out of the calculations. That will give the RBA ample justification for another tightening. 

 Inflation has been below the bottom of the central bank's 2-3 percent target band for three years. 

 "Despite the firm expectation that the Fed will go again at the next meeting on May 16, the plus for the Aussie is the realisation that the RBA will meet twice before this," said Macquarie Bank currency strategist Joanne Masters. 

 Most economists expect another one or two rate rises to take official rates to 6.0 percent by mid-year to head off inflation pressures. That will likely keep the gap to the U.S. stable. 

 "We're saying that if they go in April they'll do 25 points, but if they wait then it will be 50 in May and that appears to be a more preferable date," said Commonwealth Bank currency strategist Michael Workman, noting the bank's semi-annual statement on monetary policy is due out shortly after the May board meeting and will give a platform to justify a hike. 

 Workman also noted that the differential between official rates with the U.S. has been less important for the dollar in recent times than three-month market rates. 

 The Australian dollar has been the victim of negative market sentiment in recent weeks, spurred by weak economic releases, that pushed the currency to 17-month lows just above 60 cents and confounded earlier bullish forecasts. Some economists late last year forecast that the local currency would be heading towards 70 cents by now. 

 By 1:15 p.m. (0215 GMT), the dollar was steady on the day at $0.6087/92. 

 The RBA will want to avoid the appearance of raising rates to defend a soft currency. 

 "I think the RBA would look for the greatest possible disconnect between the tightening and the currency, and the disconnect is provided by those CPI and wages numbers at the end of April," Edwards said. 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | nanl : Analysis | ncat : Content Types   REausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia | namz : North America | usa : United States   ANDocument lba0000020010821dw3m03y5r  



 HD Euro markets crimped by euro drop after Fed hike.    BY By James Saft    WC483 words   PD22 March 2000   ET10:19   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2000 Reuters Limited
   LP LONDON, March 22 (Reuters) - The euro's fall against the dollar after Tuesday's widely-expected U.S. interest rate rise prevented European markets matching U.S. asset price gains early on Wednesday, acting as a drag on rising European shares and pushing euro bond prices lower. 

 The Federal Reserve raised its key market interest rate by 0.25 percentage point to 6.0 percent, and also hiked its discount rate by the same amount to 5.5 percent. Both the blue chip Dow Jones stock index and the tech-laden Nasdaq gained more than two percent and U.S. Treasury bonds and the dollar jumped. 
   TD But analysts said the strength of the dollar was posing problems for euro denominated assets. 

 "Concerning European markets we have to take into account the new weakness of the euro," said Herve Goulletquer, chief economist at Credit Lyonnais in Paris. 

 The euro was at $0.9614, hovering just above two-week lows of $0.9575 set in Tokyo trading. 

 "For the European bond market the first reaction will be positive on the move we have observed in the U.S., but I think the upward move will be a little smaller due to the weakness of the euro. But I think we can expect a sort of second round effect," said Goulletquer. 

 Investors voiced their confidence that the Fed would keep inflation chained by bidding up U.S. assets across the board, pushing the dollar higher against the euro. 

 European government bonds were slightly firmer in early trading but later sank into negative territory, as a rally in U.S. yields to six-month lows was overmatched by falls in the euro. 

 German ten-year bund yields were at 5.25 percent, less than a basis point higher than Monday's European close. 

 "There was no surprise within the Fed statement pointing towards the next rate hike around the corner in May," said Michael Rottmann, senior strategist at Hyopvereinsbank in Munich. 

 "Neverthless, in the meantime, I don't think this will heavily weigh on the long end of the curve and also from that perspective the German bond market is slightly supported. I would currently look over the next few weeks for a range in Bunds somewhere between 5.10 (percent) up to 5.40 - more or less relatively boring trading which is especially influenced by the U.S. bond market." 

 But stock markets took the perception that U.S. inflation would remain tame as unambiguously good news, with the pan-European FTSE Eurotop 300 index jumping 1.6 percent. 

 "What the Fed is doing is trying to procure a soft landing and more sustainable, less inflationary growth - which is good for stocks" said David Brown, chief economist at Bear Stearns in London. 

 ((James Saft, London newsroom +171 542 2734)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REeurz : Europe | namz : North America | uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | weurz : Western Europe   ANDocument lba0000020010821dw3m03x9d  



 HD Martin says Canada inflation pressure less than U.S.    WC266 words   PD22 March 2000   ET22:15   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2000 Reuters Limited
   LP OTTAWA, March 22 (Reuters) - Canadian Finance Minister Paul Martin said on Wednesday that Canada is not facing as much inflationary pressure as the United States, suggesting that Canada may not be ready to match further U.S. interest rate hikes. 

 Asked by a reporter why the Bank of Canada raised its key lending rate on Wednesday, one day after a rate increase by the U.S. Federal Reserve, Martin said policymakers must be vigilant to inflation concerns, not just inflation. 
   TD "I think there obviously are inflationary pressures as we continue to do well (economically), and we've got to be vigilant," Martin told reporters outside Parliament. 

 "But I do not believe, for instance, that the inflationary pressures in Canada are as great as they may be in the United States. I think the situation is well within control but obviously you should go further with the (Bank of Canada) governor," the finance minister said. 

 Analysts are divided on whether the Bank of Canada, which acts independently of the government, will continue to match rate increases by the U.S. Federal Reserve through the year. 

 The Canadian central bank has matched the last three of the Fed's most recent five rate hikes, in November, February, and on Wednesday. But Bank of Canada Governor Gordon Thiessen has said repeatedly that the bank has an independent monetary policy and will make its own judgments after each U.S. move. 

 ($1=$1.47 Canadian) 

 ((Andrea Hopkins, Reuters Ottawa Newsroom, 613-235-6745, fax 613-235-5890)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 
   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1103 : Inflation/Prices | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REcana : Canada | caon : Ontario | namz : North America | usa : United States   ANDocument lba0000020010821dw3m03szh  



 HD Who's afraid of the big bad Fed? Not Wall Street.    BY By Lida Poletz    WC518 words   PD22 March 2000   ET19:42   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2000 Reuters Limited
   LP NEW YORK, March 22 (Reuters) - The economy is booming, inflation is negligible and the Federal Reserve is utterly predictable - why wouldn't markets cheer the latest U.S. interest rate hike? 

 But Wall Street's rally after the Fed's well-flagged tightening on Tuesday may be a case of shooting oneself in the foot, some economists say. 
   TD By failing to stem their buying frenzy on Wall Street, investors risk heating up the economy and sparking inflation even as they applaud the rate hikes aimed at cooling growth. 

 "In some sense it's making the Fed's job harder," said Joe Lavorgna, senior U.S. economist at Deutsche Bank Securities. "You need to see stocks be less resilient to a rate rise and see them start moving sideways." 

 U.S. stocks gained across the board after the Fed raised its key fed funds rate by 25 basis points - a quarter of a percentage point - to 6.0 percent. The Dow Jones industrial average, the Standard & Poor's 500 Index and the technology-heavy Nasdaq jumped more than 2 percent. 

 A day later the party continued, with the Nasdaq surging another 2 percent while the Wilshire 5000 index, a broad grouping of stocks watched by the Fed, hit fresh highs. 

 And U.S. Treasuries - debt securities traditionally sold down after rate rises - instead packed on gains after the move. 

 Most primary dealers - 28 of 29 who participated in a Reuters poll conducted immediately after the latest rate hike - are predicting another 25 basis point rate rise in May, and around half expect a rate rise in June. Primary dealers are those who deal directly with the Fed in money markets. 

 But expectations get muddled the further out analysts attempt to prognosticate, largely because the stock market is such a wild card. 

 Although some primary dealers have slightly pared back their expectations for rate tightening this year, most still expect another two or three modest hikes by year end. 

 "Unless the stock market suffers a sharp and sustained pullback of around 15-20 percent, the only prospect is that the Fed continues to raise rates until it reaches the point where equities start feeling some heat," said Anthony Karydakis, senior financial economist at Banc One Capital Markets in Chicago. 

 With five interest rate hikes already under its belt since June, the effect on the economy so far is hard to pin down. 

 The economy grew in the fourth quarter of last year at an annual rate of nearly 7 percent and in the first few months of this year predictions are for growth to surpass 5 percent - far above levels the Fed considers sustainable. 

 "One way or another the economy has to be cooled off. At the moment it's being done by a steady flow of 25 basis point rate hikes, but the need for a big bucket of cold water cannot be ruled out at some point in the future," analysts at Bear Stearns said in a research report. 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   ANDocument lba0000020010821dw3m03spu  



 HDCOMMENT &ANALYSIS - American business feels the squeeze.   BYBy ANDREW HILL.    WC1,080 words   PD21 March 2000   SNFinancial Times   SCFTFT   PG23   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2000 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPCOMMENT &ANALYSIS - American business feels the squeeze - If Alan Greenspan raises interest rates sharply, even technology companies that have so far escaped damage coul.

Alan Greenspan today gets his chance to raise US interest rates again. The chairman of the Federal Reserve is likely to take it. Four interest rate rises since last June have not yet slowed the record-breaking pace of US economic expansion.
   TDSo far, many fast-growing US companies have simply shrugged off the Fed's action. In particular, if the equity markets are anything to go by, the technology sector seems to have developed a near immunity to interest rate increases. The technology-rich Nasdaq Composite index is still more than double its level of a year ago in spite of recent declines in technology shares. For investors and the companies they back, buoyancy contributes to a virtuous circle.

"Because they (technology companies) are so beloved by equity investors they do not need to borrow money," says John Lonski, chief economist at Moody's Investors Service in New York. "I don't think a rate hike is going to have much of an impact on them." Jeffrey Taylor, chief executive of Monster.com, an online careers site, agrees. "I think we can continue to grow at record rates, really without following a lot of the traditional factors," he says.

If so, that raises questions about the Fed's influence and whether the old levers of monetary policy can be relied on to guide the corporate economy. But some economists - and even a few executives in the high technology sector - believe this confidence is misplaced. They believe even fast-growth companies will not prove impervious to interest rate rises.

There are certainly plenty of reasons for corporate America to remain cheerful in the face of tightening monetary policy:

* Availability of funds. For those companies whose share price is not highly rated, there are plenty of other sources of credit apart from banks. "Virtually everyone can tap the markets and, if you can't, there are a lot of institutions that can tap it for you," says Edward Kerschner, chairman of the investment policy committee of PaineWebber, the investment bank.

* Continuing expenditure on technology. Investment in technology is improving productivity and many US companies need to continue such expenditure to keep up with the competition. "Capital expenditure continues to grow at a multiple of gross domestic product. It looks like capex is going to be explosive for the first quarter - and 60 per cent of capex is now technology," says Jeffrey Applegate, Lehman Brothers' investment strategist.

High-tech start-ups and internet companies are not the only beneficiaries. Edward Krubasik, a board member of Siemens, the German industrial group with $14.8bn of annual sales in the US, says: "The investment cycle (in the US) would not be affected by interest rates alone." He says upgrades of process automa tion technology now pay for themselves in six months. In his view, customers "simply have to do it", whether or not interest rates are rising.

* International demand for US technology companies' products. About 44 per cent of the sales of technology companies in the Standard &Poor's 500 index comes from outside the US. As Lehman Brothers pointed out in a recent report: "Even in the example of recession-ridden Japan, technology demand is very robust."

Despite all these factors, there are reasons for caution. One is that old economy companies have funded the drive to expand by increasing short-term bor rowing. John Lonski of Moody's points out that the issue of corporate bonds has fallen sharply over the last year as it has become more costly for companies to tap the debt markets. The number of investment-grade issues in January and February fell 46 per cent compared with a year earlier, and high-yield issues by 66 per cent. In dollar terms, corporate bond issuance was down 11 per cent and 35 per cent respectively.

Instead, companies have geared up with short-term bank borrowings or issues of commercial paper. Figures released by the Fed last week for last month's flow of funds show that the issue of commercial paper increased 14 per cent year on year, with non-financial companies adding most to their short-term borrowings. This is the segment of corporate debt most sensitive to a rise in interest rates today.

The influence of the Fed's last four rate increases may be feeding through to the most highly geared US companies, in the basic material and capital goods sectors. Last week's industrial production figures showed a decrease in the production of durable goods in February. Production of cars, carpeting and appliances slipped, according to the Fed's figures, and the pace of growth in production of business equipment slowed.

Some old economy companies are beginning to worry. Hank Barnette, chief executive of Bethlehem Steel, says his company is now concerned about "the sensitivity of our customers to interest rates and of our suppliers to interest rates", although he believes the steel industry would be more worried if the Fed allowed inflation to get out of control.

Some technology executives share those concerns. They stress that the new economy's stars would be hit by arecession in the old economy, because the established companies are their biggest potential clients.

David Wetherell, chief executive of CMGI, which manages a network of internet and high-tech companies, believes that sooner or later repeated interest rate increases will have an impact on his own sector. "If you have enough rate hikes, it will drive the old economy into a recession, and these are the companies that borrow money the most and that have the biggest need to make the transition to the new economy," he says.

Mr Wetherell's fear is that aggressive rate increases would deter established companies from making that transition.

"I think there is a significant need to be driving productivity gains and help these businesses avoid disintermediation," he says.

Most analysts expect two further increases, including today's, to take the Fed funds target rate to 6.25 per cent. But if Alan Greenspan takes too aggressive an approach, he could not only rattle the equity markets, but dampen blue-chip companies' enthusiasm for technology investment. The optimism of many technology executives would then be tested severely.

Copyright Financial Times Limited 2000. All Rights Reserved. 
   INi3302 : Computers/Electronics   NSc15 : Performance | c152 : Earnings Projections | c1522 : Share Price Movement/Disruptions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m11 : Equity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument ftft000020010808dw3l01isv  



 HDWORLD NEWS - THE AMERICAS - Fed expected to lift rates again today.   BYBy GERARD BAKER.    WC574 words   PD21 March 2000   SNFinancial Times   SCFTFT   PG10   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2000 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPThe outcome of today's meeting of the Federal Reserve's policy-making open market committee does not appear to be in any serious doubt. The massed ranks of Fed watchers on Wall Street and elsewhere have decreed that the US central bank will, for the fifth time in nine months, raise its key interest rate - the target for the fed funds rate - by a quarter of a percentage point to 6 per cent.

Alan Greenspan, the chairman, and his colleagues, will probably also say, in line with their policy of explaining how they "tilt" in their view of economic conditions in the economy, that they believe the balance of risks remains on the inflation side rather than on the slowdown side of the equation.
   TDEveryone knows why the Fed will do this: gross domestic product grew at an annual rate of almost 7 per cent at the end of 1999 and looks likely to record a 4.5 per cent rate in the first quarter of 2000, way above even the new, productivity-enhanced, growth rate of the US economy.

But the more interesting question that will probably not be answered definitively by the Fed today is: what exactly do the central bank's policymakers believe is the main source of the elevated level of demand growth? What, in other words, is the target of their interest rate policy? Last month, Mr Greenspan appeared to shed new light on this critical question when he adumbrated a new theory of what has been going on in the US in the last year or so.

The reason demand growth has been so strong is, essentially, down to the stock market. In a passage of his Humphrey-Hawkins testimony to Congress that startled some economists, Mr Greenspan said the productivity acceleration, which has long been regarded as the miraculous hero of the US economy in the last few years, might also have a dark side to it.

While its immediate effect had been to raise the rate at which the economy could grow, it also had the indirect effect of increasing the growth of demand above the capacity of the more productive economy to supply it. Increased productivity had raised expectations for profits, which meant higher stock prices. This made consumers more confident about their personal financial conditions and had therefore raised spending.

But some economists are sceptical. One obvious problem is that the thesis appears to place the economy in an impossible bind. For 25 years after 1973, the US suffered from slow productivity growth that resulted in excess demand and inflation. Now the Fed appears to be saying that the new era of faster productivity growth will result in excess demand and inflation.

Furthermore, as Mickey Levy, chief economist with Bank of America, points out, the thesis underestimates the extent to which stock prices improve the productive capacity of the economy by lowering the cost of capital to companies, who then invest more in productivity-enhancing equipment.

The stock market's wealth effect has clearly had a big impact on consumption, and the Fed is anxious to rein it in. But Mr Levy and others suspect that Mr Greenspan is simply floating another idea that has the same practical implications as almost any other he has posited. Squeeze on business, Page 23.

Copyright Financial Times Limited 2000. All Rights Reserved. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument ftft000020010808dw3l01iqw  



 HD CHRONOLOGY-U.S. Fed rate changes since 1992.    WC381 words   PD21 March 2000   ET23:10   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2000 Reuters Limited
   LP WASHINGTON, March 21 (Reuters) - The following is a chronology of the U.S. Federal Reserve's interest rate moves since September 1992. 

 1992 
   TD Sept. 4 - Fed funds rate cut to 3.0 percent from 3.25 percent. 

 1994 

 Feb. 4 - Fed funds rate raised to 3.25 percent. 

 March 22 - Fed funds rate raised to 3.5 percent. 

 April 18 - Fed funds rate raised to 3.75 percent. 

 May 17 - Fed funds rate raised to 4.25 percent, discount rate raised to 3.5 percent from 3.0 percent. 

 Aug. 16 - Fed funds rate raised to 4.75 percent, discount rate raised to 4.0 percent. 

 Nov. 15 - Fed funds rate raised to 5.5 percent, discount rate raised to 4.75 percent. 

 1995 

 Feb. 1 - Fed funds rate raised to 6.0 percent, discount rate raised to 5.25 percent. 

 July 6 - Fed funds rate lowered to 5.75 percent. 

 Dec. 19 - Fed funds rate lowered to 5.5 percent. 

 1996 

 Jan. 31 - Fed funds rate lowered to 5.25 percent, discount rate lowered to 5.0 percent. 

 1997 

 March 25 - Fed funds rate raised to 5.5 percent. 

 1998 

 Sept. 29 - Fed funds rate cut to 5.25 percent. 

 Oct. 15 - Fed funds rate cut to 5.00 percent, discount rate lowered to 4.75 percent 

 Nov. 17 - Fed funds rate cut to 4.75 percent, discount rate lowered to 4.50 percent 

 1999 

 June 30 - Fed funds rate raised to 5.0 percent 

 Aug. 24 - Fed funds rate raised to 5.25 percent, discount rate raised to 4.75 percent 

 Nov. 16 - Fed funds rate raised to 5.5 percent, discount rate raised to 5.0 percent 

 2000 

 Fed. 2, 2000 - Fed funds rate raised to 5.75 percent, discount rate raised to 5.25 percent 

 March 21, 2000 - Fed funds rate raised to 6.00 percent, discount rate raised to 5.5 percent. 

 NOTE: The federal funds rate on overnight loans is the Fed's main policy target, influenced by its monetary operations. 

 The less-frequently used discount rate is the rate charged to commercial banks for direct loans from their regional Fed banks. 

 ((Washington newsroom 202 898 8329, washington.economic.newsroom@reuters.com)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nchr : Chronology   REnamz : North America | usa : United States | usdc : Washington DC | uss : Southern U.S.   ANDocument lba0000020010821dw3l03xh3  



 HD U.S. fed funds futures point to more rate hikes.    BY By Ellen Freilich    WC458 words   PD21 March 2000   ET22:07   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2000 Reuters Limited
   LP NEW YORK, March 21 (Reuters) - U.S. interest rate futures contracts signalled on Tuesday that investors expect the Federal Reserve to hike rates at least once more in the first half of the year and see a 50 percent chance of another increase in August, analysts said. 

 Fed funds futures and Eurodollar contracts were little changed on Tuesday after the Federal Reserve, as expected, raised two short-term interest rates by a quarter of a percentage point each. 
   TD U.S. fed funds futures and Eurodollar contracts already reflected expectations that the Fed would raise interest rates at its March 21 policy meeting, analysts said. 

 The contracts also reflected expectations the Fed would raise rates again in May, they said. 

 This would bring the federal funds rate for overnight loans between banks to 6.25 percent by mid-May. 

 "A May rate hike is fully priced in on the fed funds futures contract," said Michael Gregory, senior economist at Lehman Brothers. 

 Josh Stiles, senior bond strategist at IDEA Global.com, said eurodollar and fed funds futures barely moved after the Fed rate hikes. 

 "That makes sense because markets anticipated the rate increases and the Fed's statement that inflation was the main risk ahead - and they got what they expected," he said. 

 After raising rates, the Fed issued a statement warning of further increases in borrowing costs, saying higher inflation remained the main risk to the economy. 

 The Fed's widely expected decision raised the federal funds overnight bank lending rate by 0.25 percentage points to 6.0 percent and increased the less-used discount rate on direct loans to banks by a similar amount to 5.5 percent. 

 Using standard language to describe its assessment of the U.S. economy in the foreseeable future, the U.S. central bank said the risks were "weighted mainly toward conditions that may generate heightened inflation pressures." 

 That statement would help the Fed justify the further increases in borrowing costs forecast by most economists. 

 Analysts expect at least one more Fed rate move, some two, and some even three, during the remainder of the year. 

 Stiles said the June fed funds futures contract reflected the view that the Fed would raise interest rates again in May, boosting its federal funds rate to 6.25 percent. 

 Fed funds futures and eurodollar contracts still appeared to reflect about a 50 percent chance of another rate hike in June or August, analysts said. 

 The Fed has raised interest rates five times since June 1999, increasing the cost of credit to 6.00 percent, its highest level since November 1995. 

 (( - U.S. Financial Markets, +212 859 1660 )). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m15 : Derivative Securities | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   ANDocument lba0000020010821dw3l03w1z  



 HD Higher US rates unlikely to stifle housing demand.    BY By Aleksandrs Rozens    WC690 words   PD21 March 2000   ET21:22   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2000 Reuters Limited
   LP NEW YORK, March 21 (Reuters) - It was windy, rainy and cold on Tuesday morning and Edward Kraucis was more concerned about pouring foundations for homes than another rate hike by the Federal Reserve. 

 Kraucis, a construction project manager, was at a job site in Monmouth County, N.J., where 14 homes are in various states of completion and foundations for four more are being started. 
   TD The Fed on Tuesday raised interest rates by a quarter point - its fifth increase since last June - bringing the federal funds overnight bank lending rate to 6 percent and the discount rate on direct fed loans to banks to 5.5 percent. 

 Yet the hikes in borrowing costs have done little to slow demand for housing, according to Kraucis. "We are as busy as we were a year ago," he said, adding that consumers are confident and flush with cash from stocks and mutual funds. 

 But Kraucis, a project manager and sales associate for Ocean, N.J.-based Randi Realty and Samuel Fromkin Construction, conceded that the latest rate rise "might slow us a little bit. This may be the straw that slows us down a bit." 

 "What is happening in the job market now is overwhelming gains in mortgage rates," said David Berson, chief economist at Fannie Mae, the largest U.S. provider of home finance. "Income growth is helping. Confidence is almost at all-time highs so it's no surprise that the housing market remains strong." 

 But Berson said the cumulative impact of Fed rate increases "should be, at some point, a slowing in economic growth." 

 "If the Fed continues to tighten, there is a very good chance by midyear the economy will slow, but not stop," he said. 

 "So job growth will cool and confidence will come down some," and this slowdown, along with higher mortgage rates, should erode housing demand, he said. 

 "When the real side of the economy is weak, then higher interest rates have a bigger opportunity to affect housing demand," Berson reasoned. The Fed is trying to slow economic growth so the job market slows and spending slows, he said. 

 According to Berson, housing expenditures and personal consumption account for about 80 percent of U.S. gross domestic product. So "if you don't get consumer spending to slow, it will be tough to get the economy to slow." 

 While the latest rate hike will not have a notable impact on housing in the near-term, it will have an immediate effect on financial products such as home equity loans, auto loans and credit cards. "Prime rates are closely tied to short-term rates. They move with fed funds rates," said Berson. 

 Some economists said Tuesday's rate hike may have little effect on consumer spending. "It is being pushed by tight labour markets and the wealth effect of the stock market," said Marilyn Schaja, money market economist at Donaldson Lufkin & Jenrette Securities Corp. "Ultimately we have a very strong consumer and very high consumer confidence." 

 Barbara Corcoran, founder and chairman of The Corcoran Group in New York, said it could take interest rate hikes of several percentage points to cool housing. 

 Corcoran, whose real estate brokerage firm specialises in Manhattan condos, co-ops and townhouses, has seen demand outstrip supply even as rates rise. New Yorkers, she said, are more concerned with "what kind of year they are having and how much they are making" than interest rates. 

 Indeed, Corcoran said the gradual increase in borrowing costs by the Fed may have actually fired up demand. 

 "People are feeling the enormous pressure before price rises and the threat of higher rates. They feel a false deadline," she said. 

 Meanwhile, Kraucis and his construction crew see no slowing in sight. There are building permits to sort out and property lots to clear as the busy spring and summer building seasons approach. 

 "Right now, we're just praying for the rain to stop," he said, looking out from his construction trailer. 

 (( - By Aleksandrs Rozens, U.S. Mortgage Unit, +212-859-1668)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States | use : Northeast U.S. | usny : New York   ANDocument lba0000020010821dw3l03w0b  



 HD FOCUS-Fed raises key rates,warns of inflation risk.    BY By Knut Engelmann    WC524 words   PD21 March 2000   ET20:40   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2000 Reuters Limited
   LP WASHINGTON, March 21 (Reuters) - The Federal Reserve said on Tuesday it raised two key interest rates by a modest amount and warned of further rises in borrowing costs by saying it still saw higher inflation as the main risk to the economy. 

 The widely expected decision raises the target for the federal funds overnight bank lending rate by 0.25 percentage points to 6.0 percent and increases the less-used discount rate on direct loans to banks by a similar amount to 5.5 percent. 
   TD Using standard language to describe its assessment of the the U.S. economy in the foreseeable future, the central bank said the risks were "weighted mainly toward conditions that may generate heightened inflation pressures." 

 That assessment would help it justify further increases in borrowing costs that most economists have forecast. Analysts expect at least one more rate move, some two, and some even three, during the rest of the year. The Fed's next scheduled meeting is on May 16. 

 In its statement, issued after the meeting of the interest-rate setting Federal Open Market Committee, the powerful central bank said it faced the same economic circumstances as when it last raised rates on Feb. 2. 

 "Economic conditions and considerations addressed by the Committee are essentially the same as when the Committee met in February," it said. 

 "The Committee remains concerned that increases in demand will continue to exceed the growth in potential supply, which could foster inflationary imbalances that would undermine the economy's record economic expansion," the Fed added. 

 The announcement of the increase in official interest rates forced bond prices lower but left the stock market, a key factor in the Fed's thinking, largely unruffled. The Dow Jones Industrial Average was trading almost unchanged from the level where it stood before the central bank's statement. 

 Some in financial markets were relieved the central bank did not signal bigger rate rises ahead. 

 "There are no red flags here calling for the Fed to be any more aggressive," said Mario DeRose, Fixed Income Strategist at Edward Jones in St. Louis. "They think they can still continue this incremental approach and beat back inflation in this manner." 

 This fifth tightening of borrowing costs since June of last year raises the federal funds rate to its highest level since 1995. 

 In this latest round of tightening, the world's top economy, propelled forward by a seemingly insatiable consumer appetite for everything from new houses to oil-guzzling sport utility vehicles, has shown little sign of slowing down in response to tighter credit costs. 

 In recent appearances, Greenspan has argued that the economy is in danger of overheating because strong productivity gains have boosted expectations of future corporate earnings, thus inflating stock prices and financing the unprecedented boom in consumer spending. 

 Some have called it the dark side of productivity: The very force that has long been credited keeping a lid on inflation is now blamed for helping to create supply shortages and thus driving up wages and prices to dangerous levels. 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   ANDocument lba0000020010821dw3l03vsy  



 HD FOCUS-Major U.S. banks hike key rate after Fed move.    WC486 words   PD21 March 2000   ET22:44   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2000 Reuters Limited
   LP NEW YORK, March 21 (Reuters) - Borrowing costs for Americans began to rise on Tuesday shortly after the Federal Reserve boosted its key short-term interest rates, as top U.S. banks raised the rate they charge their best borrowers to a five-year high of 9 percent. 

 Bank of America, Chase Manhattan Corp., Bank One Corp., and Wells Fargo and Co. all said they would lift their so-called prime lending rates to 9.0 percent from 8.75 percent, effective Wednesday. 
   TD The prime rate was last at 9.0 percent in February 1995. 

 The banks acted after a decision by the Fed to raise the federal funds overnight bank lending rate by 25 basis points to 6.00 percent and the less-used discount rate on direct loans to banks by the same amount to 5.5 percent. 

 The Fed also warned credit costs might have to rise further to keep inflation at bay. This is the Fed's fifth rate hike since June, as it seeks to preempt nascent inflation amid a historic U.S. economic expansion and a booming stock market. 

 Credit card, auto and home equity loans could cost more as the prime rate rises, analysts said. Banks also could pay more to borrow to fund new loans, after the Fed move. Many banks have used deposits to fund loans, but the deposit pool has shrunk with the proliferation of higher-yielding mutual funds, forcing banks to borrow in the wholesale market. 

 Bank stocks were higher after the Fed's announcement, even though interest rate hikes can cut into profits by reducing loan demand and boosting banks' own borrowing costs. Bank of America shares rose 2-1/8 to 51-3/4, Chase Manhattan Corp. stock advanced 3-4/16 to 89-13/16 and Citigroup Inc. gained 2 to 58-1/16. 

 "The prime rate is used for corporate borrowers and is obviously the best rate but a lot of consumer yields are geared off the prime," Stephen Biggar, an analyst at S&P Equity Group said. "Many credit card loans are prime plus, plus a lot of home equity loans are geared off prime...Any rise in short-term rates also has an impact on adjustable rate mortgages." 

 Banks for the most part hedge against potential interest rate hikes as a normal part of doing business, but Wall Street has still punished bank stocks in recent months on fears their profits could slump and margins could narrow, analysts said. 

 Charlotte, N.C.-based Bank of America, the No. 2 U.S. bank holding company, lifted its prime rate minutes after the Fed's announcement. By late afternoon, it had been joined by Chase, Bank One, Wells Fargo, First Union Corp., J.P. Morgan's Morgan Guarantee Trust, FleetBoston Financial and Bank of New York. 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 
   INi814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSc31 : Marketing | c314 : Pricing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   ANDocument lba0000020010821dw3l03qb2  



 HD TEXT-Statement after Fed meeting ends.    WC241 words   PD21 March 2000   ET20:18   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2000 Reuters Limited
   LP WASHINGTON, March 21 (Reuters) - The following is a statement by the Federal Reserve after a meeting on Tuesday by the U.S. central bank's interest rate-setting Federal Open Market Committee: 

 "The Federal Open Market Committee voted today to raise its target for the federal funds rate by 25 basis points to 6 percent. In a related action, the Board of Governors approved a 25 basis point increase in the discount rate to 5-1/2 percent. 
   TD Economic conditions and considerations addressed by the Committee are essentially the same as when the Committee met in February. The Committee remains concerned that increases in demand will continue to exceed the growth in potential supply, which could foster inflationary imbalances that would undermine the economy's record economic expansion. 

 Against the background of its long-run goals of price stability and sustainable economic growth and of the information currently available, the Committee believes the risks are weighted mainly toward conditions that may generate heightened inflation pressures in the foreseeable future. 

 In taking the discount rate action, the Federal Reserve Board approved requests submitted by the Boards of Directors of the Federal Reserve Banks of Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, Minneapolis, Kansas City and San Francisco. The discount rate is the rate charged depository institutions when they borrow short-term adjustment credit from their district Federal Reserve Banks." 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   ANDocument lba0000020010821dw3l03q9t  



 HDMARKETS WEEK MARCH 20 - MARCH 26 - NEW YORK.   BYBy ADRIAN MICHAELS.    WC200 words   PD20 March 2000   SNFinancial Times   SCFTFT   PG33   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2000 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPAll eyes are on the Federal Reserve again this week. Its policymaking committee meets on Tuesday and is widely expected to raise interest rates by a further quarter percentage point.

Fed chairman Alan Greenspan has made clear he wishes to curb growth in demand to meet the rate of potential growth in supply. Four interest rate increases later, and there are still few signs of a slowdown.
   TDMoreover, inflation, apart from oil prices, remains subdued. So the markets are expecting another rise and would be surprised only if rates were not increased.

Meanwhile, market watchers are keen to see if "old-economy" blue chips on the Dow index and elsewhere can sustain their rally of last week.

Among other sectors, pharmaceuticals and financials rose substantially as investors took the view that these heavily-beaten stocks were now bargains.

However, with tech stocks on Nasdaq rising again by Friday, the new order may have been restored.

Lehman, Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley Dean Witter all report first-quarter earnings this week and with investment banking still booming, are expected to outstrip expectations.

Copyright Financial Times Limited 2000. All Rights Reserved. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m11 : Equity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument ftft000020010808dw3k01ig0  



 CLMREVIEW & OUTLOOK (Editorial)   HD The Market Meets the Fed    WC711 words   PD20 March 2000   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGA34   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP Alan Greenspan's Federal Reserve wizards convene to set monetary policy tomorrow, in the wake of last week's amazing stock market gyrations. The surging Nasdaq fell by almost 5% while the blue-chip Dow staged an extraordinary rally, surging 666 points or 6.7% on the week. 

 We'd hope that the Federal Open Market Committee would see last week's moves for what they are: a convergence of valuations toward a more reasonable level for both old economy stocks and new ones. Or, in other words, a reallocation of capital in favor of better value. As free economies have long shown, that's a role the market will play quite ably if left alone to do it. We worry when the equation that produces this rationalization of prices has to include another variable: an unpredictable and mysterious Federal Reserve. 
   TD Everyone remembers that Mr. Greenspan worried over "irrational exuberance," though later said a "bubble" is apparent only after it collapses. At this point it's hard to tell just what Mr. Greenspan is "signaling" with quarter-point interest rate hikes, another of which was pretty much pre-announced for this week. The problem is injecting fear, uncertainty and nervousness into the market, around every FOMC meeting. We've pretty much reached the point where an explanation of what the Fed is doing is as important as what it does. 

 If the Fed carries through with its apparent intention to raise rates tomorrow, this needn't send investors running for cover, providing that the rate hike is not rash and that Mr. Greenspan explains himself in a way that makes clear he is not out to crash the stock market. 

 As it happens, a respectable case has been building that the Fed should indeed keep rates snug. The February Consumer Price Index numbers indicate that we may be beginning to see some CPI inflation; 12-month CPI, year over year, is now running at 3.2%, the highest in three years. This is largely "explained" by the price of oil, but we've long been wary of explanations that turn on individual prices rather than the total amount of money being created by the Fed. While the oil cartel may get a corner on the gains, it seems the Fed has been creating enough money to give us inflation over 3%. So policymakers can defensibly say that they need to raise rates because inflation is peeping over the horizon. 

 On the record, the markets would welcome such a move. On the other hand, it will be rough going for both investors and those who need investor capital if Mr. Greenspan says he intends to control asset prices -- either in old economy or new economy stocks. Indeed, this suggestion is now so widespread that mere silence can support it. In recent speeches Mr. Greenspan has alluded to his concerns about what he calls "the wealth effect." That condition, he contends, makes people spend the money they make in appreciating stock market assets on consumer goods. The conclusion that the Chairman draws from this is that the wealth effect will eventually result in too much money chasing too few goods and bingo, we'll have inflation. 

 And yet, despite the latest blip in the CPI numbers, American consumer appetites have failed to generate significant inflation. Indeed, last month's numbers even showed a decline of 0.5% in real hourly earnings, striking another blow at the idea that healthy growth must be accompanied by wage pressure. 

 If the Fed's job is to control the price level, as we've always thought, it's hard to see that it can be most effective when its policies are delivered as enigma. Markets work best when they have information and not very well at all when they have to operate under a cloud of government uncertainty. A policy that leaves investors guessing what Dow and Nasdaq levels make the Fed Chairman uncomfortable can only fuel a volatile market as buyers and sellers jump in and out of stocks after trying to read Mr. Greenspan's mind. That would be good news for brokerage commissions, but it is hardly the best way to allocate capital for growth. 
   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nedc : Commentary/Opinion   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument j000000020010807dw3k006i6  



 HD U.S. fed funds futures reflect rate hike expectations.    BY By Ellen Freilich    WC483 words   PD20 March 2000   ET19:47   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2000 Reuters Limited
   LP NEW YORK, March 20 (Reuters) - U.S. interest rate futures contracts show the market fully expects the Federal Reserve to conclude Tuesday's monetary policy meeting by raising its key federal funds interest rate by a quarter point to 6.00 percent. 

 Analysts said the contracts also show the market expects one and possibly two more quarter-point rate hikes from the Fed by the end of summer, as central bank policy makers continue their gradual approach to heading off inflation by slowing the U.S. economy. 
   TD "Gradualism is going to be the hallmark of Fed policy for the foreseeable future," said Michael Gregory, senior economist at Lehman Brothers. 

 The Fed has already raised interest rates four times since June 1999, increasing the cost of credit by a full percentage point to 5.75 percent, its highest level since November 1995. 

 Both eurodollar interest rate future contracts and federal funds futures, key indicators of the market's outlook for U.S. short-term interest rates, reflect market expectations for a quarter-point rate hike at the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) meeting on March 21. 

 Gregory said the market would pay attention to how the Fed describes the balance of risks facing the economy in the statement that should accompany Tuesday's expected rate hike. 

 The contracts indicate the market expects another quarter-point increase at the Fed's May 16 meeting, with a 50 percent chance of another one in June, said Henry Willmore, senior economist at Barclays Capital. 

 This would bring the federal funds rate for overnight loans between banks to 6.25 percent by mid-May and, possibly, to 6.50 percent by the end of June. 

 Analysts and traders said both eurodollar futures and the less actively traded federal funds futures contracts suggested investors saw no perceptible risk of the Fed raising rates by a more aggressive 50 basis points at future meetings. 

 Federal funds and eurodollar futures contracts currently reflect a market view that the Fed believes the risks facing the economy are weighted toward higher inflation down the road, he said. 

 "The market has fully priced in a rate hike in May," said Gregory. 

 John Jacobs, fixed-income analyst at IDEAglobal.com, said eurodollar future contracts show "a 6.50 percent federal funds rate is fully priced in by August." 

 On the eve of the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) March meeting, prices of two-year notes, a key indicator of future short-term interest rates, were down slightly, yielding 6.53 percent. 

 "We've seen the front end (of the U.S. Treasury maturity curve) suffer partly because the Fed has clearly expressed the idea that gradual tightening is likely to continue at least through the first half of the year," Jacobs said. 

 (( - U.S. Financial Markets 212 859 1660 )). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   ANDocument lba0000020010821dw3k04amr  
 Page 1 of 1      2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.


 

 Page 1      2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.

