 


 HD POLL-Wall St. sees more Fed rate cuts on horizon.    BY By Barbara Hagenbaugh    WC648 words   PD21 March 2001   ET01:46   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 Reuters Limited
   LP NEW YORK, March 20 (Reuters) - The Federal Reserve will continue its aggressive interest rate cutting spree this year, possibly taking the plunge before its next scheduled meeting on May 15, Wall Street economists told Reuters in a poll taken on Tuesday. 

 In a survey of 25 primary dealers of U.S. government securities taken after the Fed lowered rates a half-percentage point on Tuesday, 17 said they expected the Fed will cut rates by another half-point by May 15 while five predicted a slimmer quarter-point cut. 
   TD Two dealers said they did not see the Fed moving at all while Deutsche Bank declined to make a call. 

 With eight weeks to go before the Fed's next meeting, there is a very real possibility that the Fed will move before then, Wall Street dealers said. 

 Dealers on average, based on 21 responses, saw a 45 percent chance the Fed will cut rates before May 15. Four dealers declined to predict the chances of an inter-meeting move. 

 "Today's statement quite clearly indicates that the inter-meeting move is on the table," J.P. Morgan Chase senior economist Calvin Schnure said. 

 But Schnure and other dealers said the Fed made it clear on Tuesday that it would take more than sliding stock prices to get central bankers to move between meetings. 

 Instead, further drops in consumer confidence and spending would be needed to tip the Fed to cut rates before May 15. 

 "They need something more than just an extra five percent off the Nasdaq," Schnure said. "It's out of character after what they have done in the past several years." 

 Investors were disappointed that the Fed did not come to their rescue and cut rates more dramatically on Tuesday to help prop up sagging stock prices. Stocks fell sharply after the Fed's decision was announced, pushing the Dow Jones industrial average to a two-year-low. 

 ABOUT ONE-IN-THREE ODDS OF RECESSION 

 Responding to a dramatic slowdown in the U.S. economy, the Fed has now cut interest rates three times this year, bringing overnight borrowing costs down to 5.00 percent in half-percentage point cuts each time. 

 The Fed started cutting rates on Jan. 3 when it surprised markets and cut in between regular meetings following a conference call, the first such move since fall 1998 when central bankers were responding to a global economic crisis that threatened U.S. and world financial markets. 

 This time, the Fed is trying to keep the record U.S. economic expansion on track and to ward off a painful recession, which is commonly defined as two straight quarters of economic contraction. 

 Twenty-one of the Wall Street dealers on average saw a 35 percent chance that the U.S. economy would sink into a recession in 2001, unchanged from when Reuters last asked the question on January 25. Four dealers declined to make a call. 

 "Things are uneven now," said Banc of America Securities chief economist Mickey Levy, who saw a 40 percent chance of an inter-meeting move. "We're close to one (a recession). It's a slump and whether after the fact it is designated as a recession or not does not matter so long as it feels hard." 

 Markets, based on federal funds rate futures contracts, are pricing in a 100 percent chance of a half-percentage point cut at or before the May 15 meeting and a 60 percent chance of an additional quarter-point cut at the June 26-27 meeting. 

 Fourteen of the 25 dealers said they expected the Fed Funds rate to be at 4.25 percent or lower by the middle of 2001. Twelve dealers expected the rate to be 4.00 percent or lower by the end of the year. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nsur : Survey/Poll   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   ANDocument lba0000020010713dx3l03pbf  



 HD Economic Fix: As Fed Trims Rates, Other Forces Work To Dilute the Benefits --- Consumer Debt, Slow Exports And Corporate Jitters Damp Jump-Start Bid --- Markets Lose More Ground    BY By Greg Ip and Jacob M. Schlesinger    CRStaff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal   WC2,658 words   PD21 March 2001   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGA1   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 2001, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP WASHINGTON -- With his third big interest-rate cut in three months yesterday, Alan Greenspan is acting more aggressively than ever before to prevent economic weakness from turning into recession. But some powerful forces are working against him. 

 The Federal Reserve's move to lower short-term interest rates by half a percentage point brings rates down a total of 1.5 percentage points this year. And officials made clear yesterday they are prepared to do much more -- possibly even before their next official rate-setting session May 15. 
   TD Yet reducing borrowing costs may have a muted impact, with consumers and businesses already heavily in debt and feeling less inclined to take on more loans because of plunging asset values. Faced with excess capacity and bulging inventories, companies seem hesitant to invest, even if financing costs fall. Nor can Mr. Greenspan, the Fed chairman, do much for America's trading partners -- from Japan to Europe to Latin America -- who also seem to be weakening. 

 "The possibility of consumption and investment spending declining in the face of huge stock-market losses and diminished confidence in the future is what could provoke a serious downturn," says Janet Yellen, a former Federal Reserve governor and top Clinton administration economist. Ms. Yellen, now a professor at the University of California at Berkeley, says she would have cut rates by three-quarters of a point -- something the central bank hasn't done since the depths of the early-1980s recession. 

 With many investors hoping for a three-quarters point cut, stocks plunged following the Fed's 2:13 p.m. EST announcement. The Dow Jones Industrial Average ended the day down 238.35 points, or 2.4%, to 9720.76, its lowest close since March 1999. The Nasdaq Composite Index finished down 93.74 points, or 4.8%, to 1857.44, its lowest close since November 1998. 

 Though some selloff was expected with a half-point cut, the magnitude of the decline showed how little faith investors have that the Fed's action to date will turn around the darkening corporate profit picture. 

 "People are looking to Mr. Greenspan to deliver more than he's capable of delivering," said Leo J. Smith Jr., head of equity trading for mutual-fund manager Putnam Investments. "They're looking to him to turn the mindset of the market around." 

 Seen in historical perspective, the notion that Mr. Greenspan is acting too meekly seems ridiculous. Yesterday's half-point rate cut means that the Fed has, in just three months, nearly undone its entire last round of rate increases that took a full year to put in place. When Mr. Greenspan started easing at the start of the last recession, in 1990, it took him six months to cut rates by as much, and he wasn't cutting this rapidly until late 1991, more than a year after the downturn had started. 

 Explaining their actions, Fed officials painted a picture of gloom, ranging from "pressures on profit margins" to slowing investment to "excess productive capacity" to "weakness in global economic conditions." The statement reflects a marked shift in concerns. Unlike the Fed's previous three statements, it contained no reference to high energy prices or weak confidence. This new list includes deeper-seated problems for which the central bank has no obvious remedy. 

 Analysts read the statement as a virtual promise of more rate reductions, perhaps even before the Fed's May meeting. They noted, in particular, the Fed's pledge to "monitor developments closely," a phrase the central bank used shortly before its surprise inter-meeting rate cut of Jan. 3. 

 That all suggests that the Fed may ultimately have to cut rates far more deeply than the 5% to which it lowered its target for the federal-funds rate yesterday, from 5.5%. It's the lowest since the Fed started its last round of rate increases in mid-1999. In addition, the Fed also lowered its largely symbolic discount rate by half a point to 4.5%. 

 "The bottom line is we have a long way to go," says Bill Dudley, head of U.S. economic research at Goldman Sachs. Markets currently anticipate the federal-funds rate will drop to between 4% and 4.5% by September. But Mr. Dudley says that if consumer spending cracks, the federal-funds rate -- the rate at which banks make overnight loans to each other -- could fall to 3% or even lower. That's where the Fed kept it from late 1992 to early 1994 as it battled the headwinds of a weak banking sector that was blunting the Fed's power. 

 Still, Fed officials clearly decided that it was too soon to cut rates too sharply. They noted that efforts by companies to cut inventories appear "to be well under way" and could end soon. They also noted that consumer spending has "firmed a bit since last year." And the economic data Mr. Greenspan watches so closely show few clear signs of recession so far. 

 A recession is defined broadly by many economists as at least two consecutive quarters of decline in a nation's gross domestic product. In a recession, the unemployment rate usually rises sharply, by at least two percentage points. But the nation's unemployment rate stayed flat at 4.2% in February, just a shade above a 30-year low, while employment grew by 135,000. Consumers are still spending on houses and cars. 

 Industrial production fell in February for the fifth straight month, but many analysts believe the overall economy continued to grow, albeit at a snail's pace, through the winter. The main weakness to date is in financial markets, and Fed officials remain wary about doing anything that would make it look as if they were responding solely to that for fear of reinflating a stock-market bubble. 

 The Fed has certain conditions working in its favor. In contrast with the U.S. in the early 1990s -- and with Japan today -- the American banking system remains healthy, indicating that credit should remain available for those who want it. In the hours after the Fed's move yesterday, major banks around the country, such as First Union Corp. and Bank of America Corp., announced that they were lowering their prime rates -- the benchmark for many consumer and business loans -- to 8% from 8.5%. 

 Continued low inflation, meanwhile, gives Mr. Greenspan far more leeway to cut rates more quickly than he had during the last downturn. 

 "This time, there's plenty of room between where they are and where they can go in terms of stepping on the accelerator," says Chris Varvares of Macroeconomic Advisors, a St. Louis forecasting firm. He sees growth in the gross domestic product slow but positive in the first half of the year -- somewhere between 1% and 2% -- before picking up to 3% in the second half. As the manager of his firm's profit-sharing plan, Mr. Varvares recently raised the portfolio's share in stocks back to more than 50% from 45%. 

 What makes this slowdown so hard to read is that it is unlike any the U.S. has experienced in recent memory. Nearly every recession since World War II has followed rising inflation -- caused either by an oil-price spike, excessive consumer demand or some combination of the two. In those cases, the Fed was forced to raise interest rates sharply, halting growth to wring inflation out of the economy. 

 This time, consumer prices outside of energy have remained remarkably stable despite rapid growth. And while Fed rate increases played a role in the current slowing, the central bank's campaign to tighten money through 1999 and 2000 was one of its tamest in recent history. From June 1999 through the following May, the Fed raised its benchmark target just 1.75 percentage points, to 6.50% from 4.75%. That compares with median increases of about three percentage points during most tightening episodes of the past three decades, according to research by Fed governor Laurence Meyer. 

 This is the New Economy business cycle. Unlike prior booms led by consumer demand, the rapid growth of the 1990s was driven heavily by business spending on new equipment, especially in high technology. Mr. Greenspan and countless others declared that new efficiencies reaped from this spending had helped boost the long-term growth rate of the U.S., raising expectations of higher corporate profits, in turn giving added fuel to the stock market. 

 Now the tech-spending and stock-market bubbles have burst. And the worry isn't the old one of too much consumer demand chasing too few goods. It's the danger of too much supply, as companies that invested and built themselves up around the assumptions of rapid growth are now having to adjust to a new reality. 

 Mr. Greenspan -- who turned 75 earlier this month -- has long been a student of economic and financial history, and has spent many hours over the past decade boning up on the history of financial bubbles and how central banks have responded. In his view, the Fed made a fatal mistake in the late 1920s and early 1930s -- repeated by the Bank of Japan in the late 1980s and early 1990s -- by not cutting rates fast enough once the bubble had burst. 

 When the U.S. faced a more traditional postwar slowdown in the late 1980s and early 1990s, the Fed cut mainly in small, quarter-point steps. It wasn't until February 1991, deep into the recession, that the Fed moved by a half-point in one day. 

 But even aggressive easing amid a burst bubble doesn't guarantee success. In prior slowdowns, Fed easing has usually sent stocks higher, but so far not this time. After a brisk rally in January, stocks have been sinking steadily under the drumbeat of mounting earnings disappointments, mostly in technology. 

 According to Thomson Financial/First Call, big tech-company earnings, which grew at an astonishing 42% last summer from a year earlier, are expected to plunge 31% in the current quarter. Probably the major factor causing the technology slowdown is the excessive spending for technological capital equipment that has left too many industries with excess capacity, according to First Call analysts. "Time is the only solution to digest all this added capacity and get demand in line with capacity," the analysts wrote in a report. "The Fed can do little about that." 

 The falling stock market is a particularly big worry these days because its role in the economy is bigger than ever. It's three times larger relative to GDP than in 1990, and share ownership is much more widespread. The decline in stocks in the past year, according to Merrill Lynch, has wiped out some $3.7 trillion in wealth. Merrill Lynch analysts think that will slash consumer spending by $100 billion over the course of a year -- enough to knock a full percentage point off GDP. Offsetting that has been an estimated $1.1 trillion rise in real-estate values, too little to negate the impact of shrinking stock portfolios. 

 The blow to the economy from disappearing wealth could be exacerbated by rising consumer debt. Peter Hooper, chief U.S. economist at Deustche Banc Alex. Brown, notes that back in 1990-91, consumers were saving about 8% to 9% of their disposable income. Their savings rate has since dropped to a record low of minus-1%, for January, owing largely to rising household wealth which has made the need to save less compelling. "With households having been shocked into the realization the stock market won't be doing the saving for them, they are going to have to do a little bit more saving themselves out of their take-home pay," he says. 

 That wouldn't be such a big problem if economies overseas were growing robustly. But they're not. Back a few months ago, when American policy makers talked confidently of a "soft landing" for the U.S., they assumed that American consumers would curb spending this year but that the softness would be made up by rising American exports. Yet instead of foreign economies keeping the U.S. afloat, the U.S. appears to be dragging other countries down with it. J.P. Morgan economists expect global growth to slow to 2.1% this year, barely half the 4% pace of 2000. 

 Libbey Inc., a glassware manufacturer based in Toledo, Ohio, that sells in more than 80 countries, said yesterday it expected earnings in the current quarter to be less than expected, in part because of sluggish orders domestically and overseas, and the lingering effects of higher energy costs. 

 Fed rate cuts are supposed to help U.S.-based exporters by leading to a decline in the value of the dollar versus other currencies, as the relative returns in dollar-based assets fall along with rates. But the dollar has actually been rising recently, creating another barrier for exports. 

 Kenneth Wilkes, Libbey's chief financial officer, says, "There's no question a strong U.S. dollar impacts our ability to sell our glass tableware overseas. Our cost base is primarily in U.S. dollars and we're selling our products priced in U.S. dollars." He said competitors from Indonesia, Turkey and France are "getting more aggressive overseas, and the strength of the U.S. dollar is one of the factors" enabling them to do so. 

 The brightest part of the economic landscape right now is housing, which is also the most interest-sensitive. But it began benefiting from Fed easing last year as market rates began dropping in anticipation of Fed action. Indeed, since May mortgage rates have dropped 1.5 percentage points. As a result, new-home sales in December hit a record of one million, at an annual rate, and remained above 900,000 in January, down just 1% from a year earlier. Housing starts were also above 1.3 million at an annual rate in both January and February, barely down from a year earlier. 

 By contrast, when the Fed started easing steadily in July 1990, new-home sales were down 26% and housing starts 14% from a year earlier. Both continued to decline until January 1991, but surged back to 1989 levels by early 1992. 

 With all these forces working against a quick pickup in economic activity, that raises the question: Why didn't the Fed do more yesterday? The answer lies, in part, in Mr. Greenspan's continuing attempts to grapple with how to conduct monetary policy in the age of the bubble. While he certainly wants to pick up the pieces from this collapse, he's also mindful of preventing the next bubble from inflating. One way to do that is to discourage investors from thinking that the Fed will bail them out every time stocks go down -- a perception that could have been fueled had the Fed cuts rates by three-quarters of a point. The half-point cut, though large by historical standards, may have been an implicit message from the Fed that investors shouldn't expect it to ride to their rescue. 

 "The Fed achieved a delicate balance," said Mike Moran of Daiwa Securities. "Had the Fed gone 75 basis points today, it would have been difficult to argue that it was not trying to stabilize the stock market." 

 --- 

 G. Thomas Sims in Frankfurt, Elizabeth Crowley in Washington and John Hechinger in Boston contributed to this article. 

 --- 

 Journal Link: Is the Fed's half-point interest-rate cut too much, too little, or just right? Participate in the Question of the Day in the online Journal at WSJ.com/JournalLinks. 
   INi501 : Building Construction | i5010022 : Residential Building Construction | i814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | icre : Construction/Real Estate   NSc15 : Performance | c151 : Earnings | c1514 : Earnings Surprises | c31 : Marketing | c312 : External Markets | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1101 : Economic Growth | e1106 : Consumer Credit/Expenditure/Savings | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gjob : Labor Issues | ncat : Content Types | npag : Page-One Story   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument j000000020010711dx3l004va  



 HD ECB can no longer ignore case for rate cut: economists  by Simon Morgan    WC781 words   PD21 March 2001   SNAgence France-Presse   SCAFPR   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright 2001) 
   LP FRANKFURT, March 21 (AFP) - The latest cut in US interest rates and rapidly falling confidence in Germany are making it increasingly difficult for the European Central Bank to ignore calls for lower interest rates in the 12-country euro zone, analysts here said on Wednesday. 

 The US Federal Reserve cut its benchmark short-term interest rate by half a point to 5.0 percent late on Tuesday to prevent the struggling US economy from sliding into recession. 
   TD That means that the US central bank has slashed 1.5 percentage points off its key rates since the beginning of the year, bringing US interest rates close to European levels. 

 By contrast, the ECB has held its key rate steady at 4.75 percent since October, arguing that the single currency area will not be largely affected by the US slowdown and suggesting that inflationary dangers are still lurking in the region's economy. 

 ECB deputy president Christian Noyer told bankers in Geneva on Tuesday that the outlook for the euro zone remained positive and that so far there was no sign that the slowing of the US economy was having a significant and lasting effect on the euro zone. 

 Similarly, in Berlin on Wednesday, German Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder insisted that growth in Europe, and in Germany in particular, remained "robust". 

 But the latest economic data appeared to belie such optimism. 

 And economists suggested that European politicians and monetary officials were sticking their heads in the sand and would be in danger of experiencing a nasty shock if they continued to peddle their over-optimistic assessment of economic conditions. 

 The gloom certainly deepened on Wednesday with the release of industrial confidence data in Germany which showed that business confidence hit a 19-month low in February as business leaders took fright at the potential effects of the US and global slowdowns on the single currency area. 

 The business climate index for western Germany, as calculated by the Ifo economic research institute in Munich, fell to 94.9 in February from 97.5 in January. 

 That is much sharper than expected -- analysts had been forecasting a fall to 96.6 points -- and was the lowest level since July 1999 when the index had stood at 93.6 points. 

 At the same time in Brussels, the EU statistics office, Eurostat, said that industrial output in the euro zone fell by 1.9 percent in January from the figure for December. 

 The shock decline in the Ifo index acted as a wake-up call to the euro, which tumbled below 0.90 dollars to 0.8989 dollars on the foreign exchange market. 

 For Nomura International economist, Adolf Rosenstock, the latest data should finally set the alarm bells ringing at the ECB. 

 "The ECB has always said that it lacks a clear sign that the global slowdown has reached Europe. Well, here it is," Rosenstock said. 

 "These Ifo figures are unambiguous and further signs are going to follow. The ECB must not delay in cutting rates. Time is ticking by." 

 The head of DIW, one of the six leading economic research institutes in Germany, also urged the ECB to follow the Fed's example and cut rates. 

 A rate cut on the part of the ECB has been "overdue for some time and is now absolutely necessary", DIW chief Klaus Zimmermann said in a newspaper interview. 

 An economist at Exane in Paris, Emmanuel Ferry, said that the Ifo data painted a very gloomy picture for the German economy and reinforced the scenario that growth would slow very sharply this year. 

 Indeed, the Ifo index was likely to fall further in the coming months, probably to 94.0 in March, "which would be compatible with stagnant gross domestic product (GDP) growth in the first quarter of this year", Ferry said. 

 An economist at 4Cast, Guillaume Menuet, predicted that the Ifo index would probably not bottom out until the second quarter of this year, or maybe even the third quarter. 

 "If the Bundesbank (the German central bank) were still in charge of the monetary policy, they would probably have moved by now. 

 "But I don't think the ECB is ready yet, in view of the inflation figures. And anyway, it would be a pretty dramatic switch for the ECB to change its position now, even if the Ifo data certainly increase the odds of move in early April," Menuet said. 

 But BHF-Bank economist, Stefan Rieke, predicted that the Ifo data would force the ECB "to rethink its position. It may now cut rates by the end of this month or shortly after." 

 spm/hd 
   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1101 : Economic Growth | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REeur :  | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | usa : United States   IPDFinancial | SEQN: 0431   ANDocument afpr000020010709dx3l026ts  



 HD DIW economic institute urges ECB to follow US Fed rate cut    WC319 words   PD21 March 2001   SNAgence France-Presse   SCAFPR   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright 2001) 
   LP BERLIN, March 21 (AFP) - DIW, one of the six leading economic research institutes in Germany, on Wednesday urged the European Central Bank to follow the example of the US Federal Reserve and cut its key rates to boost flagging growth. 

 A rate cut on the part of the ECB has been "overdue for some time and is now absolutely necessary," DIW chief Klaus Zimmermann told the Wednesday edition of the daily Berliner Zeitung. 
   TD The Fed cut its benchmark short-term interest rate to five percent late on Tuesday in a move aimed at preventing the struggling US economy from sliding into recession. 

 That means that the US central has slashed 1.5 percentage points off its key rates since the beginning of the year, bringing US interest rates close to European levels. The ECB has held its key rate at 4.75 percent since October. 

 The ECB is the only major central bank in the world not to have cut its key rates in response to the sharp deterioriation in the global economic environment in recent months. 

 It argues that the 12-country euro zone will not be largely affected by the US slowdown and suggests that inflationary dangers are still lurking in the region's economy. 

 Zimmermann suggested that the ECB should cut its key rate by half a percentage point to counter flagging growth. 

 Money supply growth, which the ECB regards as a key indicator of medium term inflationary trends, was slowing, "there's no problem with inflation and the economy is sputtering", the DIW chief said. 

 He suggested that recession could no longer be ruled out in the US. "There are a lot of signs pointing that way," he said. 

 If the US economy did slip into recession then DIW would further cut its growth forecast for this year of 2.1 percent. 

 spm/hd 
   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1101 : Economic Growth | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | ecbnk : European Central Bank | eec : European Union | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPDFinancial | SEQN: 0205   ANDocument afpr000020010709dx3l02629  



 HDGerman downturn puts ECB policy in spotlight.   BYBy TONY BARBER IN FRANKFURT.    WC613 words   PD21 March 2001   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPGermany's economic down-turn, highlighted on Wednesday by a steep fall in the nation's main business climate index, poses a challenge for the European Central Bank (ECB) over when to cut interest rates.

The outlook for German economic growth has darkened so much in recent months that an easing of monetary policy would seem as appropriate for Germany as it has been for the slowing US economy. But, unlike the US Federal Reserve, the ECB has to set interest rates for 12 countries, many of which are growing at healthier rates than Germany and appear not to need a quick rate cut.
   TDThis is particularly true for France, Spain and the Netherlands, which together account for about 36 per cent of the euro-zone economy, compared with 32 per cent for Germany.

"The German economy virtually stalled in the second half of last year," said Elwin de Groot, economist at Fortis Bank in Amsterdam. "But France is keeping up quite well, because of the strength of domestic demand and because it is more sheltered from outside events like the US slowdown."

A rate cut would seem even less suitable for small euro-zone countries such as Finland, Greece and Ireland, which are likely to record growth this year of 4-8 per cent.

The Ifo business climate index for western Germany fell to 94.9 last month from 97.5 in January, its biggest monthly decline since it started to come down from its peak of 102.0 last May.

Gernot Nerb, an economist at the Munich-based Ifo institute, said he thought the fall in the index gave grounds for the ECB to cut its main interest rate from 4.75 per cent, where it has stood since last October.

However, the central bank has tied its own hands to some extent by insisting in recent weeks that the euro-zone's economic growth prospects remain positive in spite of the US slow-down and by continuing to fret about the inflation outlook.

Having overshot its inflation ceiling of 2 per cent a year in 2000, the ECB seems determined to make sure the same thing does not happen this year. In February, annual euro-zone inflation was 2.6 per cent, though it is expected to fall in coming months.

Robert Prior-Wandesforde, an analyst at HSBC Economics, said the ECB's failure to cut interest rates meant that it was already too late to prevent an industrial recession in Germany.

Other economists say the bank's desire to maintain public confidence in the euro-zone's economic outlook suggests it will want to find other reasons for a rate cut than a risk of economic downturn.

One such justification is the slowing pace of growth of M3 money supply. Over the past two years the ECB has not always chosen to emphasise M3 trends when explaining its interest rate changes, but its official monetary policy strategy treats M3 growth as an important indicator of inflation trends.

In its March monthly bulletin the ECB noted pointedly that "the slowdown in M3 growth has become progressively more visible in recent months".

Julian Callow, economist at Credit Suisse First Boston, says recent US and Japanese interest rate cuts mean the pressure on the ECB to follow suit is heating up. He thinks the bank may trim rates by 0.25 percentage point on April 11, before finance ministers from the Group of Seven leading industrialised countries meet in Washington at the month's end.

The ECB's next three meetings are on March 29, April 11 and April 26. 
   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1101 : Economic Growth | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | eec : European Union | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations   REeecz : European Union Countries | eur :  | eurz : Europe | gfr : Germany | nam :  | namz : North America | usa : United States | weur :  | weurz : Western Europe   IPCEconomic News | Interest Rates | Economic Indicators | GDP &GNP | European Central Bank | Federal Reserve USA | European Union | Europe | Germany | United States of America | Americas | Pacific Rim | Western Europe | North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument ftcom00020010715dx3l000mt  



 HDFed cut boosts government bonds.   BYBy REBECCA BREAM IN LONDON, JOSHUA CHAFFIN IN NEW YORK, AND BAYAN RAHMAN IN TOKYO.    WC539 words   PD21 March 2001   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPGovernment bonds performed well on Wednesday as the markets benefited from the US Federal Reserve's 50 basis point interest rate cut on Tuesday.

Disappointment in the US equity market that the cut had not been bigger also helped bonds.
   TDEuropean government debt yields fell throughout the session amid high volumes of trade, with particular price gains in the two-year maturity leading to a steeper curve.

A weaker-than-expected figure for the German Ifo business sentiment index helped to support government bond prices. The Ifo index stands at 94.9 compared to expectations of 96.7, indicating less inflationary pressure in the euro-zone economy.

The June future contract on the 10-year German bund settled up 0.30 at 109.83, having reached new highs during the session.

US Treasury prices sagged at the long end of the yield curve amid fresh concerns over rising inflation, while being buoyed by the continuing sell-off in equity markets.

In late trading on Wall Street, the 30-year bond was down 5/32 to 101 15/32, pushing its yield up to 5.27 per cent.

The 10-year note was unchanged at 101 27/32, yielding 4.76 per cent, while the two-year note also remained unchanged at 100 3/4, yielding 4.21 per cent.

The long bond was hit by a 0.3 per cent rise in the consumer price index in February, above the 0.2 per cent increase many predicted. The figure was inflated by a surge in medical costs. They gained 0.5 per cent last month after rising 0.6 per cent in January.

Japanese government bonds surged on Wednesday driving 10-year yields to a 28-month low on the Bank of Japan's decision earlier this week to cut interest rates to zero. The bond market, opening after Tuesday's national holiday, was buoyed by the central bank's decision on Monday to increase commercial banks' reserve deposits in an effort to drive interest rates to almost zero.

JGBs rose on the central bank's announcement, shrugging off a surge in Japanese equities. The benchmark 10-year cash JGB surged to 103.585 and the yield fell to a 28-month low of 1.020 per cent. June 10-year JGB futures rose to a record high 140.94.

The Bank of Japan said its policy, which would be backed by an increase in its JGB purchases if necessary, would stay in place until the consumer price index settled at above zero. James Malcolm, economist at JP Morgan in Tokyo, expects this to take about two years.

Naoki Suzuki, bond analyst at Mizuho Securities, said the fundamentals of the JGB market were strong and would remain so, even though a drop in the key 10-year JGB yield to less than 1 per cent could trigger a sell-off. "But many investors would buy 10-year JGBs on dips, keeping 10-year JGBs steady."

The market is focusing on Thursday's auction of 10-year JGBs, which are expected to carry a coupon of 1.1 per cent. 
   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpol : Domestic Politics | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REnam :  | namz : North America | usa : United States   IPCMarket News | Bonds | Markets | Government News | Economic News | Interest Rates | Market Reports | Economic Indicators | United States of America | Americas | Pacific Rim | North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument ftcom00020010715dx3l000aa  



 HDEditorial comment - Fed still on a knife edge.   WC448 words   PD21 March 2001   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPThe US economy is undergoing a necessary adjustment from an unsustainable path. But the Federal Reserve on Tuesday was right in seeking to ease that transition with a half-point interest rate cut.

Annual growth rates of personal consumption close to 5 per cent and investment of about 10 per cent were never going to last, even if the "new economy" had significantly increased productivity growth from the doldrums. By the end of last year, private sector spending exceeded income by 5.5 per cent of national income, the largest US private financial sector deficit on record.
   TDThe adjustment is being reflected in equity valuations. Profit warnings have reminded the markets that earnings do not always rise. Once the markets understood that the share of earnings in national income could not rise indefinitely, a rapid fall of stock prices was inevitable, particularly in the over-hyped technology, media and telecommunications stocks.

The Dow Jones Industrial Average is still more than 50 per cent higher than in December 1996 when Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman, mused about irrational exuberance in equity markets. Now, though, he is worried about the wealth effect on consumption of too steep a decline.

The necessary adjustments will be painful. Domestic demand must fall below the economy's sustainable growth rate until the private sector financial deficit unwinds. In the process, lower private spending will improve the current account deficit. Lower investment will reduce the perceived gains in productivity growth. Neither is likely to be good news for US equities.

If the adjustment is smooth, the US should be able to avoid recession and should emerge with its capacity for faster non-inflationary growth than Europe or Japan intact. This remains the Fed's tricky task.

It must not cut rates too far, too fast so that the real economy accelerates again or that investors believe it will always bail them out. Equally, it must seek to avoid an equities rout which would cause a dramatic loss of consumer confidence. That would trigger an unnecessary self-reinforcing recession.

Yesterday's 0.5 percentage point cut in US interest rates struck the right balance. Growth has slowed but with rates now 1.5 percentage points lower than at the start of the year, the additional stimulus should be enough to stop a collapse in consumer sentiment and spending.

The Fed has hinted that rates might fall still further. Its task is to bolster confidence without suggesting that monetary policy slavishly follows market movements. If it falls off this tightrope, it may either upset the necessary adjustment process or find that the economy has fallen into a downward spiral. 
   NSc15 : Performance | c152 : Earnings Projections | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | e21 : Government Finance | e211 : Government Taxation/Revenue | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpol : Domestic Politics   REnam :  | namz : North America | usa : United States   IPCComment &Analysis | Government News | Economic News | Interest Rates | General News | Economic Indicators | National Income &Expenditure | Federal Reserve USA | United States of America | Americas | Pacific Rim | North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument ftcom00020010715dx3l0002r  



 HD TEXT-FOMC statement on  interest rate  policy.    WC272 words   PD20 March 2001   ET21:13   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 Reuters Limited
   LP WASHINGTON, March 20 (Reuters) - The following is the full 

 text of the Federal Open Market Committee's statement on 
   TDinterest rate policy issued on Tuesday at the close of its 

 meeting: 

 "The Federal Open Market Committee at its meeting today 

 decided to lower its target for the federal funds rate by 50 

 basis points to 5 percent. In a related action, the Board of 

 Governors approved a 50 basis point reduction in the discount 

 rate to 4-1/2 percent. 

 Persistent pressures on profit margins are restraining 

 investment spending and, through declines in equity wealth, 

 consumption. The associated backup in inventories has induced a 

 rapid response in manufacturing output and, with spending 

 having firmed a bit since last year, inventory adjustment 

 appears to be well underway. 

 Although current developments do not appear to have 

 materially diminished the prospects for long-term growth in 

 productivity, excess productive capacity has emerged recently. 

 The possibility that this excess could continue for some time 

 and the potential for weakness in global economic conditions 

 suggest substantial risks that demand and production could 

 remain soft. In these circumstances, when the economic 

 situation could be evolving rapidly, the Federal Reserve will 

 need to monitor developments closely. 

 The Committee continues to believe that against the 

 background of its long-run goals of price stability and 

 sustainable economic growth and of the information currently 

 available, the risks are weighted mainly toward conditions that 

 may generate economic weakness in the foreseeable future. 

 In taking the discount rate action, the Federal Reserve

 Board approved requests submitted by the Boards of Directors of 

 all twelve Reserve Banks." 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   ANDocument lba0000020010713dx3k03p71  



 HD U.S. Fed policymakers start meeting as market eyes rate cut.    WC297 words   PD20 March 2001   ET15:12   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 Reuters Limited
   LP While the market expects the Fed to cut rates, uncertainty reigns on how bold the central bank is prepared to be 

 WASHINGTON, March 20 (Reuters) - Federal Reserve policymakers began an intensely watched meeting on interest rate policy on Tuesday amid expectation that borrowing costs will fall but uncertainty over how bold the cut will be. 
   TD Wall Street opinion was nearly evenly split over whether the Fed will cut rates by half a percentage point - a third such reduction this year - or opt for a more drastic three-quarter percentage point move to light a fire under the guttering U.S. economy. 

 Members of the Federal Open Market Committee gathered at 9 a.m. EST (1400 GMT) on Tuesday for what was sure to be a lively discussion of the economy and interest rates. A decision was expected at about 2:15 p.m. EST (1915 GMT). 

 A Reuters poll showed that as of Monday, 13 of the top 25 Wall Street bond firms forecast a three-quarter point cut, while 12 thought a half-point move was more likely. 

 The larger cut would reduce the fed funds rate, which now stands at 5.5 percent, to 4.75 percent. It would amount to the sharpest single-step reduction since the Fed cut the discount rate - then the most visible tool for monetary policy - by a full percentage point in December 1991. 

 Hope of a sharp rate cut gave the U.S. stock market a reprieve from its recent brutal sell-off. The Dow Jones Industrial average climbed 135.70 points, or 1.38 percent, to close at 9,959, while the Nasdaq composite index jumped more than 60 points, or 3.19 percent, to 1,951. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   ANDocument lba0000020010713dx3k03ohl  



 HD Fed policymakers start meeting, uncertainty reigns.    WC271 words   PD20 March 2001   ET15:04   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 Reuters Limited
   LP WASHINGTON, March 20 (Reuters) - Federal Reserve policymakers began an intensely watched meeting on interest rate policy on Tuesday amid expectation that borrowing costs will fall but uncertainty over how bold the cut will be. 

 Wall Street opinion was nearly evenly split over whether the Fed will cut rates by half a percentage point - a third such reduction this year - or opt for a more drastic three-quarter percentage point move to light a fire under the guttering U.S. economy. 
   TD Members of the Federal Open Market Committee gathered at 9 a.m. EST (1400 GMT) on Tuesday for what was sure to be a lively discussion of the economy and interest rates. A decision was expected at about 2:15 p.m. EST (1915 GMT). 

 A Reuters poll showed that as of Monday, 13 of the top 25 Wall Street bond firms forecast a three-quarter point cut, while 12 thought a half-point move was more likely. 

 The larger cut would reduce the fed funds rate, which now stands at 5.5 percent, to 4.75 percent. It would amount to the sharpest single-step reduction since the Fed cut the discount rate - then the most visible tool for monetary policy - by a full percentage point in December 1991. 

 Hope of a sharp rate cut gave the U.S. stock market a reprieve from its recent brutal sell-off. The Dow Jones Industrial average climbed 135.70 points, or 1.38 percent, to close at 9,959, while the Nasdaq composite index jumped more than 60 points, or 3.19 percent, to 1,951. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | nanl : Analysis | ncat : Content Types   REnamz : North America | usa : United States | usdc : Washington DC   ANDocument lba0000020010713dx3k03ogy  



 HD Interest rate  outlook - What is the Fed looking at?    WC1,146 words   PD20 March 2001   ET15:04   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 Reuters Limited
   LP NEW YORK, March 20 (Reuters) - Wall Street considers an interest rate cut of at least half a percentage point from the U.S. Federal Reserve a foregone conclusion to revive a faltering economy and stem sharp stock market losses. 

 The Fed cut rates twice in January, by a half percentage point each time and once in a surprise move between meetings on Jan. 3, bringing its federal funds overnight bank lending rate to 5.50 percent. 
   TD A recent Reuters poll found top government bond dealers split nearly evenly on the need for a far more aggressive rate cut of three-quarters of a percentage point. That would mark the sharpest single-step cut since the Fed slashed the discount rate by a full percentage point in 1991. 

 The Fed's rate-setting Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) convenes on Tuesday behind closed doors and is expected to announce any changes to interest rates at approximately 2:15 p.m. (1915 GMT) on Tuesday. 

 Following are key issues that will contribute to the Fed's decision on monetary policy: 

 WHAT FED OFFICIALS HAVE BEEN SAYING: 

 When the Fed last cut rates in January, it cited an erosion in business and consumer confidence, as well as weakening business spending on capital equipment and slumping retail sales to explain its move. 

 Greenspan has since suggested that while consumer confidence has taken "a steep falloff" it has not yet dented spending on big-ticket items like cars and homes. 

 Greenspan also has pointed out that an acceleration in the pace at which the economy and financial markets work means the central bank must respond quickly and aggressively - a signal some economists say means they will cut sharply on Tuesday. 

 "Old economic policy must indeed adjust itself for the changing timeframe in which the economy itself is moving," Greenspan told lawmakers on Feb. 28. 

 Fed policymakers also have made it clear they do not view inflation as a problem, signaling that the Fed believes it has plenty of room in which to cut rates without triggering a rise in prices. 

 US ECONOMIC SCENE 

 *GROWTH - The U.S. economy grew at 1.1 percent annual rate in the fourth quarter, its slowest pace in more than five years and far below the 2.2 percent rate in the third quarter - data the Fed had at hand the last time it met to set policy. 

 Despite the slowdown, stockpiles rose more than expected in January, suggesting that the weak economy may take longer to rebound as inventory pileups are worked off. Inventories rose 0.4 percent in January, up 5.8 percent from year-ago levels. 

 *SPENDING - Retail sales fell in February for the first time in three months, down 0.2 percent. But the glum picture was softened by a sharp upward revision in January sales to a 1.3 percent gain, leaving an uncertain picture on spending. 

 *CONSUMER CONFIDENCE - The headline numbers for the two main measures of consumer confidence have tumbled sharply in recent months. But here too there are some mixed signals. 

 The Conference Board's Consumer Confidence Index for February fell to 106.8 from 115.7 the prior month, but current conditions were not nearly as gloomy as future expectations. 

 The University of Michigan's index preliminary read on consumer sentiment for March actually edged up a fraction to 91.8 from it 90.6 final reading for February. But many economists said that reading missed most of last week's equity carnage and it may yet resume its downward path. 

 *MANUFACTURING - The industrial sector is mired in recession. Industrial production fell 0.6 percent in February, quashing hopes the sector had found a bottom that were nourished by a slight upward bounce in the National Association of Purchasing Management index for February. NAPM rose to 41.9 in February from 41.2 in January but still revealed a sector undergoing contraction not expansion. 

 *EMPLOYMENT - February nonfarm payrolls growth slowed to 135,000 from a revised 224,000 in January, but was much stronger than expected. The unemployment rate, which many economists predicted would rise, held steady at 4.2 percent. Some Fed officials have recently suggested that the unemployment rate will eventually rise, though it is only 0.3 percent above it 30-year trough of 3.9 percent. 

 *INFLATION - The consumer price index (CPI), the broadest gauge of retail price pressures, rose by 3.7 percent in the year ended January up sharply from 2.7 percent a year earlier. Core inflation, which excludes volatile food and energy prices, also is up, rising 2.6 percent year on year in January, compared with 1.9 percent year-on-year rate in January 2000. 

 *HOUSING - Housing sales and construction have slowed but remain strong by historical standards supported by 30-year fixed mortgage rates near 1-1/2 year lows. Existing home sales in January rose to a 5.13 million unit annualized rate. New homes sales plummeted 10.9 percent in January to an annual rate of 921,000 after hitting a record 1.034 million in December. 

 MARKETS 

 *STOCKS - While the Fed repeatedly says it does not target stock prices, the bludgeoning suffered by equity investors and the trillions of dollars in wealth lost the past few months has raised questions about the impact on the broader economy. 

 The Dow Jones Industrial average has just rounded out its worst week since 1989 and is down nearly 1,000 points, or about 8 percent to 9,959.11, since the Fed last cut rates. 

 The Standard & Poor's 500 index is in bear market territory down more than 20 percent from its peak and down 14 percent since the Fed last cut rates. 

 The technology-weighted Nasdaq Composite is down more than 60 percent to 1951.19 since its high struck a little over one year ago and off about 30 percent since the last Fed rate cut. 

 The Wilshire 5,000, the broadest measure of stocks and watched closely by Greenspan, is down 15 percent since Jan. 31, or 1,877 points. 

 *BONDS - Slumping stocks have helped drive money into the safety of U.S. Treasuries, driving up prices and pushing yields, which move in opposite direction, lower. 

 Yields on two-year Treasury notes have tumbled 25 basis points to 4.31 percent from 4.58 percent on Jan. 31., although they are off their two-year low of 4.20 percent hit last week. Benchmark 10-year yields have fallen 29 basis points to 4.82 percent from 5.11 percent. 

 April federal funds futures contracts are pricing in a 100 percent chance of a 50 basis point cut on Tuesday and a 56 percent chance of a 75 basis point cut, down from a likelihood of greater than 70 percent last Friday. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | nanl : Analysis | ncat : Content Types   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   ANDocument lba0000020010713dx3k03ogx  



 HD U.S. rate cut to help HK prop mkt - HK lands chief.    BY By Carrie Lee    WC522 words   PD20 March 2001   ET11:59   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 Reuters Limited
   LP HONG KONG, March 20 (Reuters) - Hong Kong Director of Lands Robert Pope said on Tuesday an expected interest rate cut by the United States overnight would help the territory's depressed property prices. 

 But Pope told reporters said that although he expects prices to rise over the long term, a supply glut will prevent any dramatic rise. 
   TD The U.S. Federal Reserve is expected to announce its decision on interest rates at 1915 GMT. As Hong Kong's currency is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the territory is expected to follow any U.S. rate move. 

 Lashed by the Asian financial crisis and oversupply, local residential prices have plunged some 50 percent from their 1997 peaks. The government recently announced a string of moves seen as boosting the market, including a reduction in land supply and an easing of measures designed to combat property speculation. 

 Pope said he believes the market has now hit bottom. 

 "I foresee the only way to go is up," he said. "Hopefully this will not be in a dramatic way, because there is still quite a lot of supply of flats in the market." 

 Pope added the existing vacancy in the market would also curb any price rises. "So the market will remain fairly controlled." 

 "There is also a lack of confidence in the property sector. People in the past have seen prices rising so dramatically and now prices have dropped and remained fairly static. People haven't got used to this yet," he said. 

 "Prices are not going to be rising the way they did in the past. If you really want to buy property as a longterm investment, it's a good investment. If you want to buy property for speculation, really those days are gone," he said. 

 He said the administrations goal was to ensure price stability and that prices rose in line with inflation. 

 CAUTIOUS DEVELOPERS 

 Pope said developers remained cautious about acquiring land, as none had yet applied for any sites on a 2001/02 reserve list, where sites are put up for public auction or tender only if a developer has applied for it and guaranteed a minimum price. 

 "I have predicted that we will receive applications for two or three sites off the application list. I don't think this will happen until the later half of this year, or next financial year, say after the summer, September, October. But I am still confident we will receive application," he said. 

 Hong Kong's fiscal year starts on April 1. 

 Pope said he expected the two residential sites offered in the coming land auction in June to sell "quite well". 

 "Those are fairly small sites. They don't really require much in the way of capital investment," Pope said. In 2000/01, the government sold 22 lots covering about 28 hectares of land by auction and tender. Almost 15,100 flats are expected to be built on those sites and a further 6,000 flats stemming from land contracts that were revised during the year. 
   INi85 : Real Estate Transactions | icre : Construction/Real Estate   NSc31 : Marketing | c314 : Pricing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | nanl : Analysis | ncat : Content Types   REasiaz : Asia | china : China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | easiaz : Eastern Asia | hkong : Hong Kong | namz : North America | usa : United States   ANDocument lba0000020010713dx3k03o0n  



 HD Guessing-game over U.S. rate cuts buoys markets.    BY By Glenn Somerville    WC700 words   PD20 March 2001   ET09:20   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 Reuters Limited
   LP WASHINGTON, March 20 (Reuters) - A guessing game about the size of an expected slash in U.S. interest rates to be announced on Tuesday by the Federal Reserve sent a thrill of anticipation through battered stock markets on Monday. 

 Hopes were rising that policymaking members of the Federal Open Market Committee might decide to cut rates by three-quarters of a percentage point instead of a half percentage point, though Wall Street opinion was about evenly split on either outcome. 
   TD The Fed officials were to begin meeting at 9 a.m. EST (1400 GMT) to discuss interest-rate strategy for an economy that has lost much of its fire over the past year. The Fed is expected to announce its decision at 2:15 p.m. EST (1915 GMT). 

 The key federal funds rate, charged for overnight lending between banks, now stands at 5.5 percent. 

 While the amount of the cut remains an open question, there is a unanimous belief that the U.S. central bank, aiming to fire up a flickering expansion that Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan has said is struggling under a glut of unsold goods, will lower rates for a third time this year. 

 FED IN EASING MODE 

 Such a move will continue a series of interest rate cuts that the Fed initiated at the start of 2001 when it became apparent that new orders to businesses were falling sharply and consumers were more reluctant to spend on new cars and other goods. 

 The Fed surprised markets with a sharp half percentage point cut on Jan. 3, outside of a regular FOMC meeting, then quickly lowered them another half percentage point at the conclusion of the last scheduled meeting on Jan. 31. 

 But as the week began, it was unclear whether the Fed was ready to step up its aggressive campaign with an even bigger cut on Tuesday in hopes of showing its determination to keep a record 10-year-old expansion alive. 

 A poll by Reuters showed that, as of Monday, 13 of the 25 biggest Wall Street bond firms forecast a three-quarter-percentage point reduction, while 12 thought a half-point move was more likely. 

 After a dismal showing last week, stock prices surged on Monday, with the Dow Jones industrial average up 135.70 points to close at 9,959.1 and the Nasdaq composite index ahead 60.28 points to end at 1,951.19. 

 Rory Robertson, an economist with Macquarie Equities (USA) Inc. in New York, suggested a larger rate cut was needed to prop up sagging business and consumer confidence by driving home the point that the Fed was determined to do whatever it had to to keep the economy growing. 

 Cheaper rates make it less costly for businesses to borrow for new investment and they also lower monthly mortgage payments and credit card charges for shoppers. 

 GIVE CONSUMERS A SLAP? 

 "Quite simply, the FOMC seems to have little choice but to deliver a big 'slap in the face' easing to get the minds of increasingly pessimistic consumers, businesspeople and investors back onto the prospect of better times ahead," Robertson suggested. 

 If the Fed decided to lower rates by three-quarters of a percentage point, it would be the most aggressive cut in rates since Dec. 20, 1991, when the central bank reduced the discount rate - which was then the Fed's primary monetary policy tool - a full percentage point. 

 Not everyone thinks the Fed must go beyond a third straight half percentage point cut, given some recent measures of economic activity that imply the expansion may still have room to run. National unemployment remained at just 4.2 percent in February while housing sales and construction have remained at healthy levels. 

 "We argue that a 50-basis-point rate cut would be appropriate as there are a number of signs of an economic revival," said economist Rich Yamarone of Argus Research Corp. in New York. 

 "Employment indicators all seem well behaved, and support solid consumer spending - the primary driver of economic activity," Yamarone added. "You simply cannot have a recession without a curtailment in job growth." 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   ANDocument lba0000020010713dx3k03nnn  



 HD REPEAT- Interest rate  outlook - What is the Fed looking at?    WC1,145 words   PD20 March 2001   ET06:19   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 Reuters Limited
   LP NEW YORK, March 19 (Reuters) - Wall Street considers an interest rate cut of at least half a percentage point from the U.S. Federal Reserve a foregone conclusion to revive a faltering economy and stem sharp stock market losses. 

 The Fed cut rates twice in January, by a half percentage point each time and once in a surprise move between meetings on Jan. 3, bringing its federal funds overnight bank lending rate to 5.50 percent. 
   TD A recent Reuters poll found top government bond dealers split nearly evenly down the middle on the need for a far more aggressive rate cut of three-quarters of a percentage point. That would mark the sharpest single-step cut since it slashed the discount rate by a full percentage point in 1991. 

 The Fed's rate-setting Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) convenes on Tuesday behind closed doors and is expected to announce any changes to interest rates at approximately 2:15 p.m. (1415 GMT) on Tuesday. 

 Following are key issues that will contribute to the Fed's decision on monetary policy: 

 WHAT FED OFFICIALS HAVE BEEN SAYING: 

 When the Fed last cut rates in January, it cited an erosion in business and consumer confidence, as well as weakening business spending on capital equipment and slumping retail sales to explain its move. 

 Greenspan has since suggested that while consumer confidence has taken "a steep falloff" it has not yet dented spending on big-ticket items like cars and homes. 

 Greenspan also has pointed out that an acceleration in the pace at which the economy and financial markets work means the central bank must respond quickly and aggressively - a signal some economists say means they will cut sharply on Tuesday. 

 "Old economic policy must indeed adjust itself for the changing timeframe in which the economy itself is moving," Greenspan told lawmakers on Feb. 28. 

 Fed policymakers also have made it clear they do not view inflation as a problem, signaling that the Fed believes it has plenty of room in which to cut rates without triggering a rise in prices. 

 US ECONOMIC SCENE 

 *GROWTH - The U.S. economy grew at 1.1 percent annual rate in the fourth quarter, its slowest pace in more than five years and far below the 2.2 percent rate in the third quarter - data the Fed had at hand the last time it met to set policy. 

 Despite the slowdown, stockpiles rose more than expected in January, suggesting that the weak economy may take longer to rebound as inventory pileups are worked off. Inventories rose 0.4 percent in January, up 5.8 percent from year-ago levels. 

 *SPENDING - Retail sales fell in February for the first time in three months, down 0.2 percent. But the glum picture was softened by a sharp upward revision in January sales to a 0.6 percent gain, leaving an uncertain picture on spending. 

 *CONSUMER CONFIDENCE - The headline numbers for the two main measures of consumer confidence have tumbled sharply in recent months. But here too there are some mixed signals. 

 The Conference Board's Consumer Confidence Index for February fell to 106.8 from 115.7 the prior month, but current conditions were not nearly as gloomy as future expectations. 

 The University of Michigan's index preliminary read on consumer sentiment for March actually edged up a fraction to 91.8 from it 90.6 final reading for February. But many economists said that reading missed most of last week's equity carnage and it may yet resume its downward path. 

 *MANUFACTURING - The industrial sector is mired in recession. Industrial production fell 0.6 percent in February, quashing hopes the sector had found a bottom that were nourished by a slight upward bounce in the National Association of Purchasing Management index for February. NAPM rose to 41.9 in February from 41.2 in January but still revealed a sector undergoing contraction not expansion. 

 *EMPLOYMENT - February nonfarm payrolls growth slowed to 135,000 from a revised 224,000 in January, but was much stronger than expected. The unemployment rate, which many economists predicted would rise, held steady at 4.2 percent. Some Fed speakers have recently suggested that the unemployment rate will eventually rise, though it is only 0.3 percent above it 30-year trough of 3.9 percent. 

 *INFLATION - The consumer price index (CPI), the broadest gauge of retail price pressures, rose by 3.7 percent in the year ended January up sharply from 2.7 percent a year earlier. Core inflation, which excludes volatile food and energy prices, also is up rising 2.6 percent year on year in January, compared with 1.9 percent year-on-year rate in January 2000. 

 *HOUSING - Housing sales and construction have slowed but remain strong by historical standards supported by 30-year fixed mortgage rates near 1-1/2 year lows. Existing home sales in January rose to a 5.13 million unit annualized rate. New homes sales plummeted 10.9 percent in January to an annual rate of 921,000 after hitting a record 1.034 million in December. 

 MARKETS 

 *STOCKS - While the Fed repeatedly says it does not target stock prices, the bludgeoning suffered by equity investors and the trillions of dollars in wealth lost the past few months has raised questions about the impact on the broader economy. 

 The Dow Jones Industrial average has just rounded out its worst week since 1989 and is down nearly 1,000 points, or about 8 percent to 9,959.11, since the Fed last cut rates. 

 The Standard & Poor's 500 index is in bear market territory down more than 20 percent from its peak and down 14 percent since the Fed last cut rates. 

 The technology-weighted Nasdaq Composite is down more than 60 percent to 1951.19 since its high struck a little over one year ago and off about 30 percent since the last Fed rate cut. 

 Wilshire 5,000, the broadest measure of stocks and watched by Greenspan, is down 15 percent since Jan. 31 at 1,877. 

 *BONDS - Slumping stocks have helped drive money into the safety of U.S. Treasuries, driving up prices and pushing yields which move in opposite direction. 

 Yields on two-year Treasury notes have tumbled 25 basis points to 4.31 percent from 4.58 percent on Jan. 31., although they are off their two-year low of 4.20 percent hit last week. Benchmark 10-year yields have fallen 29 basis points to 4.82 percent from 5.11 percent. 

 April federal funds futures contracts are pricing in a 100 percent chance of a 50 basis point cut on Tuesday and a 56 percent chance of a 75 basis point cut, down from a likelihood of greater than 70 percent last Friday. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   ANDocument lba0000020010713dx3k03mvt  



 HD Oil prices edge up ahead of stock figures, Fed rate decision ATTENTION - UPDATES with late values ///    WC354 words   PD20 March 2001   SNAgence France-Presse   SCAFPR   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright 2001) 
   LP LONDON, March 20 (AFP) - Oil prices crept back above 25 dollars a barrel here on Tuesday before publication of weekly US stock figures and an interest rate decision from the US Federal Reserve. 

 A barrel of Brent North Sea crude for May delivery was changing hands for 25.07 dollars, up from 24.81 dollars at the previous close. 
   TD New York April futures rose 19 cents to 26.34 dollars a barrel. 

 The basket price of seven crudes worldwide used by the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) to help set quotas fell to 22.64 dollars a barrel on Monday, from 23.09 dollars on Friday, the OPECNA agency reported. 

 Traders were already turning their attention away from last Saturday's widely expected OPEC decision to cut output by one million barrels per day, or four percent, from April 1. 

 The focus was on the latest batch of US stock figures from the American Petroleum Institute (API) to be published later Tuesday. 

 "Following the massive build up in crude stocks in last week's report, traders are concerned there may be another surge in imports (and a large stock build) which will lead to another sell off," GNI brokerage analyst Lawrence Eagles said. 

 In the short term, an important issue would be "when refiners will start to build stocks with such a vigour that will mop up the current surplus in the physical market," he said. 

 "Until that happens prices will not start to resume their upward trend." 

 The market was also waiting to see how deep a rate cut Fed policymakers would deliver at their meeting later on Tuesday to ward off full-blown recession in the United States. 

 Traders are concerned that a global economic slowdown will sap demand for crude and undermine prices. 

 "In the longer term the key issue is how quickly the US economy rebounds," Eagles said. Some traders were looking for a rate cut of 0.75 percentage points "because of weakness in the equity markets," Eagles added. 

 dr-mw/pt 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPDFinancial | SEQN: 0637   ANDocument afpr000020010709dx3k024n2  



 HD Stocks hold steady on Wall Street ahead of Fed decision    WC626 words   PD20 March 2001   SNAgence France-Presse   SCAFPR   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright 2001) 
   LP NEW YORK, March 20 (AFP) - Stocks drifted in a narrow band Tuesday ahead of a key Federal Reserve meeting widely expected to cut interest rates to help revive the sputtering US economy. 

 At 1615 GMT, the Dow industrials were up 9.63 points (0.10 percent) to 9,968.74 and the Nasdaq rose 5.84 points (0.30 percent) to 1,957.02. 
   TD The Standard and Poor's 500 edged up 4.44 points (0.38 percent) to 1,175.25. 

 The major indexes drifted in and out of positive territory as Federal Reserve policymakers went behind closed doors to debate US monetary policy, with a cut of 0.50 to 0.75 percentage points in short-term interest rates widely anticipated. 

 Dealers said while most investors prefer to stay on the sidelines due to lingering uncertainty about the size of the interest rate cut, there is some optimism among traders that the Federal Reserve will take a less gradualist approach to monetary policy. 

 Larry Wachtel at Prudential Securities said a substantial majority of Wall Street economists polled expect a 50 basis point cut, with a "healthy minority" insisting on the need for a 75 basis point cut. 

 However, Wachtel noted that relatively strong housing and retail sales data, coupled with a "steady labor market," make the chance of a 75 basis point cut "a bit slim." This environment is against a backdrop of sharp capital expenditure declines. 

 He pointed out that the Federal Reserve under Alan Greenspan has been hesitant to make dramatic moves, and a 50 basis point cut is already seen by some within the Fed as a bold enough move. 

 Wachtel said with a 50 basis point cut by the FOMC, coupled with a message of further interest rate cuts to come in future months, "the market may muddle through," but with limited upside potential. 

 Growing anxiety over the Argentine economy is also seen as an increasing point of concern for Wall Street, which fears a crunch in the credit market. 

 The financial sector was mostly lower in opening trade. The decision on interest rates is likely to give the sector a catalyst for either upward or downward movements. 

 Goldman Sachs was down 1.03 at 89.91, and Morgan Stanley fell 33 cents to 60.40. 

 The chemical industry was broadly lower after Morgan Stanley issued cautious comments on the sector due to ongoing high natural gas prices and weak demand. 

 DuPont fell 98 cents to 42.66, and Dow Chemical shed 75 cents to 32.01. 

 The technology sector was under pressure after negative pre- announcements by Solectron and KLA-Tencor. Solectron cut 10 percent of its workforce and slashed earnings estimates due to slowing sales by big technology customers. KLA-Tencor, on the other hand, warned that its quarterly earnings would be below estimates. Solectron fell 1.59 to 19.90, while KLA-Tencor was down 1-1/8 at 40-5/8. 

 Microsoft was up 1 at 55-5/16, IBM fell 1.10 to 91.50, and Intel was down 3/16 at 26-7/8. 

 The telecom sector moved broadly lower after ATT was hit by lawsuits from three pension funds following its attempt to amend its charter to allow 51 percent of shareholders to pass restructuring measures. 

 ATT was down 31 cents at 23.04, Sprint fell 10 cents to 21.90, and WorldCom shed 3/8 to 18. 

 On the bond market, the yield on the 10-year Treasury bond rose to 4.823 percent from 4.815 percent Monday and on the 30-year bond held steady at 5.289 percent. Bond yields and prices move in opposite directions. 

 bur-rl/mdl 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPC334412 | 334413   IPDFinancial | SEQN: 0588 | Wachtel, Larry   ANDocument afpr000020010709dx3k024g0  



 HD Euro stocks fight back ahead of US rate decision by Mark Rice-Oxley    WC518 words   PD20 March 2001   SNAgence France-Presse   SCAFPR   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright 2001) 
   LP LONDON, March 20 (AFP) - European share markets fought back in early trading on Tuesday after more positive sentiment seeped into Wall Street dealing before a key decision on US interest rates due later in the day. 

 Share prices bounced back from heavy recent losses that drove overall indexes to levels not seen for years, as investors anticipated a deep cut in interest rates by the US Federal Reserve. 
   TD London's FTSE 100 index, which had fallen to new two-and-a- quarter-year low points on Monday, spurted ahead 0.9 percent to 5,604.1 points. Frankfurt's DAX index gained 1.7 percent to 5,752.8 points, while in Paris, the CAC 40 index moved on 1,3 percent to 5,115.6 points. 

 The picture was similarly optimistic across the euro-zone, where the Stoxx 50 barometer of leading shares notched up a 1.3-percent gain, while the euro itself held firm at 0.9037 dollars. 

 The positive wind had emanated from Wall Street, where the Dow industrials rose 1.4 percent and the Nasdaq tech-laden index 3.2 percent on Monday. 

 Not every market place was basking in new-found confidence though. Hong Kong share prices fell 1.7 percent on Tuesday, while the Tokyo markets were closed for a holiday. 

 "Markets are a bit better on the back of Wall Street bouncing up, but Hong Kong was down so it's not totally there yet," said Teather and Greenwood analyst David Butler. 

 He said investors were eagerly anticipating the Fed's rate decision, amid hopes that the US central bank could slash rates by another half a percentage point -- or even three-quarters of a point (75 basis points). 

 "People are waiting in anticipation that it's going to be good news," Butler said. "I don't think it would make much difference if they cut by 50 or 75 basis points. 

 "Some people would say if you cut by 75 points it would be panicking and bailing out equity investors," he said. 

 Investors have watched a drip-drip sell-off in recent months turn into a veritable torrent of selling over the past two weeks, as market players turn nervous over an inauspicious combination of economic slowdown and corporate profit warnings. 

 Analysts have cautioned that only aggressive interest rate cuts, particularly in the labouring US economy, will enable businesses to pick up activity again, rescuing share prices. 

 Technology and telecoms stocks were the biggest gainers from the new mood. In London, components outfit Bookham (355.5 pence), telecoms company Colt (864 pence) and telecoms equipment firm Marconi (380.5 pence) all gained more than four percent. 

 In Paris, Marconi rival Alcatel gained 4.8 percent to 38.55 euros, while France Telecom notched up 3.7 percent to 62.45 euros. 

 The German market saw software group SAP add four percent to 133.1 euros, Deutsche Telekom gain 3.3 percent to 26.14 euros and chipmaker Infineon win four percent 40.57 euros. 

 mro/hd 
   INi7902 : Telecommunications   NSccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPDFinancial | SEQN: 0235   ANDocument afpr000020010709dx3k0231i  



 HD Taiwan stocks close almost unchanged    WC233 words   PD20 March 2001   SNAgence France-Presse   SCAFPR   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright 2001) 
   LP TAIPEI, March 20 (AFP) - Taiwan share prices closed almost unchanged Tuesday in thin trade as investors stepped to the sidelines and waited to see whether the US Federal Reserve would cut key interest rates, dealers said. 

 The Taiwan Stock Exchange weighted price index rose 0.81 points to 5,642.70, on turnover of 77.08 billion Taiwan dollars (2.35 billion US). 
   TD "A wait-and-see sentiment dominated the stock market. Its was difficult to decide whether to buy or sell," said Alex Yeh, analyst with President Securities. 

 "Everyone was anticipating on whether the Fed would cut rates... the chance (for a rate cut) was very good," he said. 

 Today's US Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) meeting is expected to announce an interest rate cut. 

 It appeared investors were reluctant to reduce holdings as margin trading had remained at a high level, said Richard Tsai, analyst with Capital Securities. 

 Decliners led advancers 274 to 223, with 89 issues unchanged. 

 The technology stocks led the gains amid expectation of positive earnings for February. 

 Asustek Computer rose 2.00 dollars to 172.00 dollars, Quanta Computer gained 3.50 to 112.50, Giga-Byte Technology advanced 6.50 to 99.50, Realtek Semiconductor grew 4.00 to 185.00, VIA Technologies moved up 3.00 to 321.00 and RITEK gained 1.00 to 82.00. 

 yc/pw 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REasiaz : Asia | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America | taiwan : Taiwan | usa : United States   IPDFood | SEQN: 0113   ANDocument afpr000020010709dx3k022l3  



 HD Yen recovers slightly against the dollar    WC462 words   PD20 March 2001   SNAgence France-Presse   SCAFPR   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright 2001) 
   LP SINGAPORE, March 20 (AFP) - The yen recovered slightly against the dollar Tuesday amid action by the Bank of Japan to reinstate zero interest rates and ahead of a crucial meeting of the US Federal Reserve on US interest rates, traders said. 

 Talks between Japanese Prime Minister Yoshiro Mori and US President George W. Bush at a summit in Washington were likely to have a lesser impact on the market as the Japanese leader may not last long in power, one trader said. 
   TD The dollar traded at 122.75 yen around 1:30 pm (0530 GMT), compared with 122.93 yen in New York and 123.35-38 yen in Tokyo late Monday when it sank to a 22 month low. 

 The euro was quoted at 0.8990 dollars, against 0.8987 dollars in New York and 0.8943 dollars in Tokyo Monday afternoon. 

 Against the yen, the euro was quoted at 110.49, against 109.94 in New York and 110.34 in Tokyo late Monday. 

 Steve Brice, a treasury economist with Standard Chartered, said investors were cautious on whether the announcement by the Bank of Japan that it was returning to the zero interest rate policy it abandoned seven months ago was supportive of the economy. 

 On talks between Mori and Bush, he said "people are taking this with a pinch of salt" as it was likely that Mori would not be prime minister for long. 

 With Japan on holiday, the Asian market was quiet, with resistance seen at 124 yen, a dealer with BNP Paribas said. 

 "We will have to wait for Europe to come in to see any excitement," he said. 

 On the Washington summit, the dealer said: "So far we don't hear any specific details from the meeting. 

 "It seems that yesterday the market speculated that they may put the yen exchange rate on the agenda but no specific statement so far has come from them so the market will continue to wait. 

 "We really have to wait for any fresh momentum for the dollar-yen to go higher." 

 Research firm IDEAglobal.com said the change in monetary strategy was a signal that the Bank of Japan "is determined to provide ample liquidity to support economic restructuring." 

 Dealers said the much-awaited meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) has sidelined investors amid widespread speculation US interest rates would be slashed between 50 and 75 basis points at Tuesday's meeting in Washington. 

 "The euro remains sidelined prior to FOMC," IDEAglobal.com said. 

 "Offers staggered between 0.9020 to 0.9040 will likely cap initial rallies," it said, adding that a cut of 75 basis points in US rates would put pressure on the single European currency. 

 mba/cf/pw 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gdip : International Relations   REasiaz : Asia | easiaz : Eastern Asia | jap : Japan | namz : North America | usa : United States   IPDFood | SEQN: 0100 | Mori, Yoshiro   ANDocument afpr000020010709dx3k022ja  



 HD FED STATEMENT LEAVES ANALYSTS LOOKING FOR INTERMEETING CUT.    WC1,024 words   PD20 March 2001   ET22:04   SNMarket News International   SCMARNEW   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001. Market News International, Inc.
   LP - Lanston's Jones Sees 60% Chance Of Quarter-point Intermeeting Cut - But BancOne's Swonk Sees "Slim" Chance of Intermeeting Cut, Predicts Fed Tightening By Year-End 

 By Steven K. Beckner 
   TD NEW YORK (MktNews) - The language the Federal Reserve used in announcing a 50 basis point interest rate cut has left many analysts looking for another rate cut before the next Federal Open Market Committee meeting on May 15. 

 David Jones, chief economist at Aubrey G. Lanston, said there is a 60% chance of an intermeeting rate cut of 25 basis points, and he was echoed less emphatically by William Dudley, director of economic research for Goldman Sachs. On the other hand, BancOne chief economist Diane Swonk saw the chances of an intermeeting move as "slim" and predicted the Fed "will be tightening by the end of the year." 

 At its meeting Tuesday, the Fed disappointed many on Wall Street by cutting the federal funds rate from 5.5% to 5%, instead of to 4.75% as many had hoped following last week's stock market sell-off. (The discount rate was also lowered by 50 basis points to 4.5%.) 

 But the disappointment was softened considerably by the phraseology the Fed used in announcing the rate cuts - the third this year for a cumulative easing of 150 basis points. 

 Not only did the Fed statement appear to broaden and deepen the Fed's concerns about the economy, but it clearly indicated that it is open to an inter-meeting rate cut by saying "the Federal Reserve will need to monitor developments closely." Similar language was used following the Dec. 19 FOMC meeting, and roughly two weeks later, on Jan. 3, the Fed made the first of three rate cuts. 

 The FOMC left intact its bias toward lower rates by reiterating that "the risks are weighted mainly toward conditions that may generate economic weakness in the foreseeable future." 

 In the same vein, the Fed also said that "persistent pressures on profit margins are restraining investment spending and, through declines in equity wealth, consumption...." And the Fed added additional concerns: 

 "Although current developments do not appear to have materially diminished the prospects for long-term growth in productivity, excess productive capacity has emerged recently," the statement said. "The possibility that this excess could continue for some time and the potential for weakness in global economic conditions suggest substantial risks that demand and production could remain soft." 

 "In these circumstances, when the economic situation could be evolving rapidly, the Federal Reserve will need to monitor developments closely," the Fed said. 

 But the Fed was not uniformly cautious, offering upbeat comments on the manufacturing sector. "The associated backup in inventories has induced a rapid response in manufacturing output and, with spending having firmed a bit since last year, inventory adjustment appears to be well underway." 

 Jones pointed to the "monitor ... closely" language, as well as the references to excess capacity, weakness abroad and risks of softer demand as pointing toward a "better than 50-50 chance" of an intermeeting move. He said such a cut, if made, would likely be 25 basis points and said the Fed would then cut rates a further 25 at the May 15 meeting. 

 By the October FOMC meeting, Jones said he believes the Fed will need to reduce the funds rate to 4 1/2% or possibly to 4%. "I wouldn't see them going any lower than that," he said, adding that the "corporate recession," the ongoing inventory correction and "the pullback in investment ... make a period of slow growth inevitable." 

 Dudley said the Fed's "deft" statement "kept open the idea that there could be an intermeeting move," but he declined to place odds on such a move, saying it will depend on an array of economic and financial indicators over the next eight weeks. He said the Fed "would prefer to wait until the next meeting." 

 Dudley was struck by the statement's "change in emphasis on what's ailing the economy. There was more of a focus on an investment bust than on confidence or energy." 

 The Fed statement suggests that "the economy's problems are bigger and more difficult" than it had previously indicated, Dudley said. 

 Ultimately, in Dudley's view, the funds rate will need to be reduced to 4% and possibly even lower. He said the message of the stock market is that the Fed has "quite a bit more to do." 

 Taking a radically different view was Swonk. She said the Fed was merely "throwing the market a bone" with its statement while staying on a path of 50 basis point rate cuts, which she described as "aggressive," not "gradual" as some Fed critics have alleged. 

 Swonk said the latest auto production figures demonstrate that the economy is not nearly as weak as widely believed and that not much further Fed easing will be needed. 

 Swonk said "the chances are slim" of an intermeeting rate cut and said she would expect, at most, another 50 basis points of easing. The second quarter will be "a transition quarter" to stronger growth, and the Fed will be "tightening by the end of the year," she said. 

 Mickey Levy, chief economist for the Bank of America, sees a "less than 50-50 chance" that the Fed will cut rates between meetings unless the Fed gets "clear evidence that consumer spending is heading south." 

 Levy said he was not disappointed in the size of the Fed's latest rate cut, pointing out that the Fed has cut rates 150 basis points within one quarter and generated rapid money supply growth. 

 "The Fed had to walk a really fine line," Levy said. "They know the economy is being hit by negative supply shocks, and they're trying to use monetary policy - a demand tool - to offset supply shocks." He added that the Fed faces "a lot of uncertainty." 

 All of the above analysts praised the Fed for not "caving in" to stock market pressures for a larger easing move. 

 ***MARKET NEWS INTERNATIONAL NEW YORK NEWSROOM 212 509 9270*** 

 [TOPICS: MNUFE$]. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPCNEW'sp'YORK   ANDocument marnew0020010713dx3k00ch3  



 HD BOC'S DODGE Q&A - NOT COMPELLED TO FOLLOW FED ON INT RATE MOVES.    WC255 words   PD20 March 2001   ET20:29   SNMarket News International   SCMARNEW   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001. Market News International, Inc.
   LP - Weaker Canadian Dollar Gives 'Impetus' for Canadian Growth - Still Have 'Room to Move' 

 MONTREAL (MktNews) - Bank of Canada Governor David Dodge Tuesday afternoon said the central bank is not necessarily compelled to follow the Federal Reserve in making its rate decisions and added that a weaker Canadian dollar is good for growth. 
   TD "As we look at our economy ... we don't face the same inflationary pressures. We look closely at our own conditions," Dodge told reporters after addressing the Montreal Society of Financial Analysts. 

 Dodge said the bank would not rush into lowering its own rates, but left the door open, saying there is still "room to move." 

 He also cited the upside of the current Canadian dollar exchange rate, noting that "the weaker Canadian dollar provides some impetus for Canadian growth. It means we don't have to go as far on the interest rate side." 

 Commenting on some of the details of the American economy, Dodge said U.S. consumers seem to be in better shape, with lower debt levels, than in the 1990-91 recession, although there appears to be a lack of consumer confidence because "everyone is looking at the Dow." 

 "If we look at household incomes and balance sheets, one finds a quite robust situation" in the U.S., he said. "One shouldn't be so pessimistic." 

 "The basis for a crack in consumer confidence in the United States in not there." 

 [TOPICS: M$C 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REcana : Canada | caon : Ontario | namz : North America | usa : United States   IPCMONTREAL   ANDocument marnew0020010713dx3k00cgz  



 HDWORLD STOCK MARKETS - All calm as traders await Fed decision.   BYBy PHILIP COGGAN.    WC273 words   PD20 March 2001   SNFinancial Times   SCFTFT   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPEquity markets were in a state of drift, as traders and investors looked ahead to today's interest rate setting meeting of the US Federal Reserve's open market committee.

A Reuters' poll found that 13 out of 25 government bond dealers expect a half percentage point cut in rates while 12 predict a three-quarters of a point reduction.
   TDThe global economics team at ING Barings said: "The Fed will probably reason that it is too early to press the panic button and we maintain our long-held view that they will cut rates by 50 basis points."

Japan was the main news-maker yesterday with the Bank of Japan announcing a change in monetary policy that effectively drove interest rates back to zero.

The move reversed last year's controversial rate increase and was designed to boost the struggling economy.

The news came after the close of the Japanese market which ended mixed, with the broadly based Topix index slightly higher and the Nikkei 225 lower.

Lehman Brothers said that it was upgrading its investment recommendation on Japan to overweight.

"A positive valuation case has emerged in Japan," said global strategist Joe Rooney.

"Whether viewed in relation to other Japanese financial assets or relative to other markets, Japanese equities look cheap," he said.

European markets were lower, with technology stocks continuing to suffer from fears about the outlook for corporate profits.

On Wall Street, the Dow Jones Industrial Average opened slightly higher, however, the Dow's gains were modest in view of last week's losses.

Philip Coggan. 
   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m11 : Equity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REasia :  | asiaz : Asia | easiaz : Eastern Asia | eur :  | eurz : Europe | jap : Japan | nam :  | namz : North America | usa : United States   IPCMarket'sp'News | Markets | Equities | Economic'sp'News | Interest'sp'Rates | Market'sp'Reports | Economic'sp'Indicators | Federal'sp'Reserve'sp'USA | Far'sp'East | Europe | United'sp'States'sp'of'sp'America | Americas | Japan | Pacific'sp'Rim | North'sp'America | Asia   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument ftft000020010715dx3k00gz8  



 HDCURRENCIES &MONEY - Yen volatile after return to zero rates.   BYBy CHRISTOPHER SWANN.    WC655 words   PD20 March 2001   SNFinancial Times   SCFTFT   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPThe yen had a rocky ride on the markets yesterday after the Bank of Japan unveiled a new strategy of monetary easing designed to combat deflation.

The strategy effectively marks a return to zero interest rates, a policy abandoned in August. But it also satisfied calls for quantitative easing - an expansion of the money supply.
   TDThe announcement initially tipped the yen to a 22-month low of Y123.60 against the US dollar.

But the Japanese currency swiftly recovered, rising to Y122.2 by the end of London trading. In early New York trading the dollar rose back to around Y123.

Analysts were unsure how to interpret the yen's recovery. Some argued that the currency had risen because the market had expected the Bank of Japan to announce even more aggressive measures to boost the money supply. But others suggested that the rise in the yen indicated a confidence that the measures would help foster an economic recovery in Japan.

* Some were more impressed by the Bank of Japan's policies than others. But all agreed that the measures were helpful.

"This is a very symbolic change," said Russell Jones, head of foreign exchange research at Lehman Brothers in London. "This package is not to be underestimated." There are three ways in which the return to zero interest rates and the quantitative easing could help the Japanese economy, analysts said.

First it should provide some help to the banks. With lending opportunities minimal, many banks in Japan make money by borrowing at the short end of the yield curve and investing further along the curve. A reduction in short term rates, analysts said, should increase the profitability of this activity. "Some steepening of the yield curve should provide a boost to bank balance sheets in Japan," said Ray Attrill, director of research at economic consultancy 4Cast.

But most doubt that it will lead to new lending.

"The reason that banks are not lending is partly because of the weight of non-performing loans," said Paul Chertkow, head of currency research at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi in London.

"It is also because many of the corporations in Japan to whom they would lend are restructuring their balance sheets and do not want to borrow," he added.

The second mechanism is through inflationary expectations. Although interest rates have been close to zero for several years, deflation has created an incentive for Japanese citizens to save rather than spend.

"By pledging to keep this policy in place until deflation has been squeezed out of the system, they are trying to ensure that there is less incentive to save," said Mr Meggyesi, director of foreign exchange research at Deutsche Bank.

The third mechanism is by taking the yen lower.

Although the yen pushed higher yesterday many expect it to continue to depreciate until the dollar reaches around Y125-30.

A return to zero interest rates is expected to increase the appeal of carry trades - in which traders first borrow and then sell a low yielding currency in order to buy higher yielding assets. Carry trades have the effect of pushing the funding currency - in this case the yen - lower.

* Analysts are more cautious than usual in trying to predict the response of the dollar to today's interest rate decision by the Federal Reserve.

Several weeks ago, many would have argued that a large cut in interest rates would be the best outcome for the dollar. Foreign exchange markets have recently been rewarding monetary policy which promotes growth and supports equities.

But the experience of last week has shaken this confidence. Heavy falls in world equities - led by the Nasdaq - helped bolster the dollar by attracting safe-haven flows into the US Treasury bond market. Many now seem reluctant to bet on the response of the dollar in the days following the Fed's decision. 
   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REasia :  | asiaz : Asia | easiaz : Eastern Asia | jap : Japan | nam :  | namz : North America | usa : United States   IPCMarket'sp'News | Markets | Foreign'sp'Exchange'sp'Markets | Economic'sp'News | Interest'sp'Rates | Market'sp'Reports | Economic'sp'Indicators | Bank'sp'of'sp'Japan | Far'sp'East | United'sp'States'sp'of'sp'America | Americas | Japan | Pacific'sp'Rim | North'sp'America | Asia   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument ftft000020010715dx3k00gz2  



 HDFRONT PAGE - COMPANIES &MARKETS - Credit markets may give the Fed room for manoeuvre - Encouraging ...   BYBy JOSHUA CHAFFIN, PERONET DESPEIGNES and GARY SILVERMAN.    WC458 words   PD20 March 2001   SNFinancial Times   SCFTFT   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPFRONT PAGE - COMPANIES &MARKETS - Credit markets may give the Fed room for manoeuvre - Encouraging signals in the debt sector could have a bearing on interest rates.

During the financial crisis of 1998, Federal Reserve policy makers grew alarmed when investors began making sharp distinctions between very similar Treasury bonds.
   TDInvestors paid more for "on-the-run" bonds - the most recently issued and the easiest to trade - than for "off-the run" bonds. The widening spreads were signs of a liquidity squeeze and Fed cut rates to keep the markets healthy.

However, as Fed policymakers gather in Washington today to consider how much more to cut interest rates they will find are more encouraging signals coming from the credit markets.

The debt markets are registering concerns, but nothing comparable to the rout in the equity markets. In some cases, credit spreads are improving from the levels of last year, when the Fed was raising rates and credit-quality fears emerged.

"There is definitely concern about the slowdown of the economy and the deterioration of corporate profits, but we are not seeing a seizing up of financial markets," said John Puchalla, economist at Moody's Investors Service.

Corporate bonds have been reassuring. The spread between 10-year investment-grade industrial bonds and Treasuries narrowed from 245 basis points last year to 215 last week, says Morgan Stanley Dean Witter. The spreads are high historically, but the trend is improving.

The spread between on-the-run and off-the-run Treasuries has grown more erratic because of confusion over government plans to buy back its debt. But even so, the spread at the end of last week - just under 11 basis points - was lower than last June, when it was 16 basis points, similar to levels during the 1998 crisis.

Moreover, swaps spreads - which measure the difference between corporate financing and Treasury yields - are lower than they were last spring or in late 1998.

"There is definitely pressure, but we are not at crisis levels yet," said Gerard Lucas, a government bond strategist at Merrill Lynch. Developments in the credit markets are particularly significant given the debate over whether the Fed considers stock prices when setting interest rate policy.

An aggressive cut now could make it easier to argue that there is a connection between equity prices and Fed actions.

Alan Greenspan, Federal Reserve chairman, has vehemently denied any effort to support stock prices. But with credit spreads less of an issue now than they were in 1998, the Fed may face an even greater risk of being perceived as doing exactly that, if only by proxy. 
   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REnam :  | namz : North America | usa : United States   IPCMarket'sp'News | Bonds | Markets | Economic'sp'News | Interest'sp'Rates | Economic'sp'Indicators | Federal'sp'Reserve'sp'USA | United'sp'States'sp'of'sp'America | Americas | Pacific'sp'Rim | North'sp'America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument ftft000020010715dx3k00gt6  



 HDUS AND CANADA - Fed widely expected to cut rates FOMC MEETING.   BYBy PERONET DESPEIGNES.    WC490 words   PD20 March 2001   SNFinancial Times   SCFTFT   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPThe Federal Reserve is widely expected to cut short-term interest rates by at least a half-point at a meeting of policymakers today, continuing its biggest monetary easing in any three-month period in at least 18 years.

While it remained unclear exactly how far it would go, it was at least clear that the case for a sharp interest-rate cut has not been this compelling for some time.
   TDTen years after the US experienced its last recession, the situation is precarious. Economic growth has ground to a halt. Business investment has faltered, the decline in industrial output has accelerated, stock prices have plunged, banks have tightened lending and consumer confidence is shaky.

Meanwhile, growth among all its main export markets has slowed, and uncertainty hangs over Japan's financial system. Things could also get worse.

Many US companies openly acknowledge that they have held back on job-cuts for fear of being caught off-guard by a quick rebound. But Wall Street is still cutting back profit forecasts. The risk is of a more draconian round of job cuts if businesses lose confidence in a "V"-shaped recovery.

Ian Shepherdson, an economist with High-Frequency Economics, recently noted the tight correlation that has developed between movements in the Nasdaq stock index and in consumer confidence measures two months later.

"We fully expect to see another significant decline (in confidence measures), driven mostly by the continued fall in the Nasdaq," he said. "Assuming consumers' spending patterns then reflect the confidence readings, it should only be a matter of time - and not much time - before spending heads south in a serious way."

The National Association of Manufacturers warned that the widely-reported inventory glut "is taking longer to work down than originally expected", and so "several more months" of output declines could be in the offing, especially if equity prices continue to sink.

Inflation appears subdued and leading indicators of inflation - prices for gold, other commodities and inflation-protected Treasury bonds - are not sending clear warning signs.

But there are possible restraints on easing today.

One is fear that it will lead many to believe the Fed has panicked. Another is the impossible-to-measure moral-hazard problem - a destructive tendency toward excessively risky investment supported by hopes the Fed will help out whenever stock prices sink.

The last time the Fed aggressively slashed interest rates was September-November 1998. Then the Fed said it acted in its widely accepted capacity as lender of last resort to pre-empt a panic and a "seizing up" of debt markets following Russia's default and a feared implosion of the Long-Term Capital Management hedge fund. But credit spreads are not an obvious problem now, so Fed action is likely to be much more easily tied in many minds to equity price plunges. Financial crisis, Page 25. 
   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnam :  | namz : North America | usa : United States   IPCGlobal'sp''amp''sp'International'sp'Economics | Economic'sp'News | Interest'sp'Rates | Economic'sp'Indicators | Federal'sp'Reserve'sp'USA | United'sp'States'sp'of'sp'America | Americas | Pacific'sp'Rim | North'sp'America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument ftft000020010715dx3k00gm5  



 HD Many believe the Fed will announce a 75 basis points  interest rate  cut on Tuesday...    WC900 words   PD19 March 2001   ET21:07   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 Reuters Limited
   LP Many believe the Fed will announce a 75 basis points interest rate cut on Tuesday, such is the weak state of the U.S. economy. 

 By Caren Bohan 
   TD WASHINGTON, March 19 (Reuters) - As Wall Street writhes in suspense over Tuesday's Federal Reserve meeting, a growing number of analysts believe Alan Greenspan and Co. may offer the weak U.S. economy a stiff dose of medicine in the form of a 75-basis-point interest-rate cut. 

 Expectations of a three-quarters of a percentage point move are far from unanimous - a Reuters poll showed that as of Monday, 13 of the top 25 Wall Street bond firms forecast a cut that size, while 12 thought a half-point move was more likely. 

 But the 75-basis-point camp has gained followers in recent days, including several former Fed officials. 

 "The odds of a 75 basis-point move are somewhat better than 50-50," former Fed governor Lyle Gramley said. "The Fed hasn't gotten much traction out of the monetary policy actions it has taken so far." 

 Helping to reinforce the case for stronger action are comments Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan made last month in which he eschewed the interest-rate gradualism that had been the central bank's trademark in the past. 

 "Old economic policy must indeed adjust itself for the changing timeframe in which the economy itself is moving," Greenspan told lawmakers on Feb 28. 

 FASTER ADJUSTMENTS, FASTER POLICY 

 The Fed chief said "adjustments" in the economy, such as pullbacks by businesses in response to weaker demand, appear to happen more quickly in the Information Age, warranting a faster-paced interest-rate policy. 

 "Because the advanced supply-chain management and flexible manufacturing technologies may have quickened the pace of adjustment...the Federal Reserve has seen the need to respond more aggressively than had been our wont in earlier decades," Greenspan said. 

 The Greenspan-led Fed's signature style was quarter-point moves, or occasionally half a point, which were often preceded by weeks - or even months - of comments by Fed officials setting the stage for them. 

 Although Greenspan made the February comments as a way of explaining the two rapid-fire half-point cuts the Fed made in January, many analysts said they could indicate a willingness to step up the pace in future moves. 

 "It's striking how quickly the economy seems to have downshifted," said Princeton University economist Alan Blinder, a former Fed vice chairman. 

 Fed officials will gather at 9 a.m. EST (1400 GMT) on Tuesday for what is sure to be a lively discussion of the economy and interest rates. It is expected to announce its decision at 2:15 p.m. EST (1915 GMT). 

 Investors in financial-market futures contracts pegged the odds of a cut of three-quarters of a point at around 64 percent. The key federal funds rate - charged for overnight lending between banks - now stands at 5.5 percent. 

 If the Fed cuts that rate to 4.75 percent, it would mark the sharpest single-step reduction since it cut the discount rate by a full percentage point in December 1991. 

 That was after the official end to the 1990-91 recession but the economy was still in a severe credit crunch. 

 The comparison with the discount rate move is relevant because during the early 1990s, this rate rather than the funds rate was the Fed's most visible tool for monetary policy. 

 Asked his prediction for the outcome of the Fed meeting, Princeton's Blinder said he didn't know but added: "If I had my druthers I would do the bigger cut." 

 Fed alumnus Gramley, who is now a consulting economist with the Mortgage Bankers Association, agreed with that advice and said he hoped the Fed would take it. 

 A TOUGH CALL 

 The Fed will have a complex picture to consider on Tuesday. Consumer sentiment has plunged sharply in recent months but had a slight rebound in the latest University of Michigan survey. 

 The job market, by most indications, remains tight with the unemployment rate a low 4.2 percent. 

 But the stock market has been clobbered in recent weeks and business sentiment seems to have eroded sharply, portending weakness in spending and hiring. 

 Last week, the tech-heavy Nasdaq plunged below the key 2,000 level and the blue-chip Dow index fell below 10,000 for the first time since October. Selling has hacked more than 1,000 points off the Dow since the last rate cut on Jan. 31. 

 Several analysts who saw a 50 basis-point cut on Tuesday suggested that a more forceful move might signal panic - or perhaps an effort by the Fed to try to offer a cushion to the stock market, instead of paying attention to the economy. 

 "The risk of going 75 is that it could be perceived outside of the financial markets as pandering to financial markets," said Diane Swonk, chief economist at Bank One in Chicago. 

 But Christopher Wiegand, economist at Salomon Smith Barney in New York countered: "They would have to move 100 to look desperate." 

 Many experts also noted the Fed did not cave in to market pressure to cut rates in the intermeeting period leading up to Tuesday's meeting, something stock investors loudly clamored for. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States | usdc : Washington DC   ANDocument lba0000020010713dx3j03qjt  



 HD Wall St. now leans more toward 75 bp Fed cut.    WC413 words   PD19 March 2001   ET20:33   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 Reuters Limited
   LP NEW YORK, March 19 (Reuters) - One of Wall Street's primary dealers changed its forecast for the size of the Federal Reserve's expected interest rate cut on Tuesday, tilting the balance very slightly in favor of a three-quarter point cut. 

 JP Morgan Chase predicted the Federal Reserve's Federal Open Market Committee will lower the 5.5 percent federal funds rate on overnight bank lending to 4.75 percent on Tuesday. Late last week it had said the Fed would cut the rate to 5.0 percent. 
   TD Wall Street's 25 primary dealers of U.S. government securities are now split 13-12 with the razor-thin majority forecasting an unusually large 0.75 point cut and the other 12 calling for a 0.50 point reduction. 

 On Friday a Reuters poll had shown that 13 dealers expected the smaller 0.50 cut while 12 looked for a more aggressive 0.75 percentage point reduction. 

 Speculation had mounted that the Federal Reserve might need to cut interest rates more aggressively to shore up confidence when Wall Street stocks were beaten lower by a steady stream of corporate profit warnings and worries about the U.S. economy's health last week. 

 But when a key gauge of U.S. consumer confidence unexpectedly turned higher on Friday, some hopes for a bigger cut faded, leaving Wall Street split over how the Fed will move. 

 The University of Michigan's preliminary March survey rose to 91.8 from 90.6 a month earlier, but the data did not capture the full impact of the stock market sell-off last week, economists said. 

 Economists say a sharp drop in stock prices threatens to dent consumer confidence further and crimp consumer spending, which accounts for two-thirds of all U.S. economic activity. 

 Housing starts last month fell less than economists had expected, providing more evidence that the housing market is fairly robust despite the slowdown, data released on Friday showed. 

 Until last week, markets were betting the Fed would slice only half a point off rates in March, following two cuts in January that reduced the funds rate by a total of a full point to try to to ward off recession. 

 In the previous Reuters poll on Feb. 28, 23 of the 25 primary dealers forecast a 0.50 point cut in fed funds while two expected a 0.25 point reduction next week. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   ANDocument lba0000020010713dx3j03qiz  



 HD UPDATE 1-Growing camp sees three-quarter-point Fed rate cut.    BY By Caren Bohan    WC932 words   PD19 March 2001   ET23:10   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 Reuters Limited
   LP WASHINGTON, March 19 (Reuters) - As Wall Street see-saws in suspense over Tuesday's Federal Reserve meeting, a growing number of analysts believe Alan Greenspan and Co. may offer the weak U.S. economy a stiff dose of medicine in the form of a 75-basis-point interest-rate cut. 

 Expectations of a three-quarters of a percentage point move are far from unanimous - a Reuters poll showed that as of Monday, 13 of the top 25 Wall Street bond firms forecast a cut that size, while 12 thought a half-point move was more likely. 
   TD But the 75-basis-point camp has gained followers in recent days, including several former Fed officials. 

 "The odds of a 75 basis-point move are somewhat better than 50-50," former Fed governor Lyle Gramley said. "The Fed hasn't gotten much traction out of the monetary policy actions it has taken so far." 

 Hope of a sharp rate cut gave the U.S. stock market a reprieve from its recent brutal sell-off. The Dow Jones Industrial average climbed 135.70 points, or 1.38 percent, to close at 9,959.1, while the Nasdaq composite index jumped 60.28 points, or 3.19 percent, to 1,951.19. 

 Helping to reinforce the case for stronger action are comments Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan made last month in which he eschewed the interest-rate gradualism that had been the central bank's trademark in the past. 

 "Old economic policy must indeed adjust itself for the changing timeframe in which the economy itself is moving," Greenspan told lawmakers on Feb. 28. 

 FASTER ADJUSTMENTS, FASTER POLICY 

 The Fed chief said "adjustments" in the economy, such as pullbacks by businesses in response to weaker demand, appear to happen more quickly in the Information Age, warranting a faster-paced interest-rate policy. 

 "Because the advanced supply-chain management and flexible manufacturing technologies may have quickened the pace of adjustment...the Federal Reserve has seen the need to respond more aggressively than had been our wont in earlier decades," Greenspan said. 

 The Greenspan-led Fed's signature style was quarter-point moves, or occasionally half a point, which were often preceded by weeks - or even months - of comments by Fed officials setting the stage for them. 

 Although Greenspan made the February comments as a way of explaining the two rapid-fire half-point cuts the Fed made in January, many analysts said they could indicate a willingness to step up the pace in future moves. 

 "It's striking how quickly the economy seems to have downshifted," said Princeton University economist Alan Blinder, a former Fed vice chairman. 

 Fed officials will gather at 9 a.m. EST (1400 GMT) on Tuesday for what is sure to be a lively discussion of the economy and interest rates. It is expected to announce its decision at 2:15 p.m. EST (1915 GMT). 

 Investors in financial-market futures contracts pegged the odds of a cut of three-quarters of a point at slightly better than 50 percent on Monday. 

 The key federal funds rate - charged for overnight lending between banks - now stands at 5.5 percent. 

 If the Fed cuts that rate to 4.75 percent, it would mark the sharpest single-step reduction since it cut the discount rate by a full percentage point in December 1991. 

 That was after the official end to the 1990-91 recession but the economy was still in a severe credit crunch. 

 The comparison with the discount rate move is relevant because during the early 1990s, this rate rather than the funds rate was the Fed's most visible tool for monetary policy. 

 Asked his prediction for the outcome of the Fed meeting, Princeton's Blinder said he didn't know but added: "If I had my druthers I would do the bigger cut." 

 Fed alumnus Gramley, who is now a consulting economist with the Mortgage Bankers Association, agreed with that advice and said he hoped the Fed would take it. 

 A TOUGH CALL 

 The Fed will have a complex picture to consider on Tuesday. Consumer sentiment has plunged sharply in recent months but had a slight rebound in the latest University of Michigan survey. 

 The job market, by most indications, remains tight with the unemployment rate a low 4.2 percent. 

 But the stock market has been clobbered in recent weeks and business sentiment seems to have eroded sharply, portending weakness in spending and hiring. 

 Last week, the tech-heavy Nasdaq plunged below the key 2,000 level and the blue-chip Dow index fell below 10,000 for the first time since October. Selling has hacked more than 1,000 points off the Dow since the last rate cut on Jan. 31. 

 Several analysts who saw a 50 basis-point cut on Tuesday suggested that a more forceful move might signal panic - or perhaps an effort by the Fed to try to offer a cushion to the stock market, instead of paying attention to the economy. 

 "The risk of going 75 is that it could be perceived outside of the financial markets as pandering to financial markets," said Diane Swonk, chief economist at Bank One in Chicago. 

 But Christopher Wiegand, economist at Salomon Smith Barney in New York countered: "They would have to move 100 to look desperate." 

 Many experts also noted the Fed did not cave in to market pressure to cut rates in the intermeeting period leading up to Tuesday's meeting, something stock investors loudly clamored for. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States | usdc : Washington DC   ANDocument lba0000020010713dx3j03mpm  



 HDEuropean markets off to a quiet start.   WC248 words   PD19 March 2001   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPTrading in Europe got off to a quiet but positive start on Monday, ahead of the announcements of expected interest rate cuts from the Bank of Japan and the US Federal Reserve.

The Dax index in Frankfurt moved 0.54 per cent higher to 5,765.74, with Siemens and BASF leading the gainers, both up 0.8 per cent. Deutsche Telekom and SAP wre up about 1 per cent.
   TDIn Paris, the CAC 40 was up 0.54 per cent or 27.42 points at 5,132.19.

EADS suffered the biggest percentage losses in early trade in Paris after posting results at the bottom end of expectations. EADS was down 1.8 per cent, with Lagadere off by 1 per cent, and STMicroelectronics and Lafarge both off by about 0.5 per cent.

On the upside, Dassault gained 1.9 per cent, while LVMH and Thales were both up 1.7 per cent.

London's FTSE 100 gained 0.11 per cent or 6.1 points to 5,568.9.

Billiton of the UK and BHP of Australia are to merge in a deal that would create the world's second-largest mining and metals company, valued at GBP20bn ($29bn). The announcement sent Billiton shares up more than 17 per cent.

The UK telecom sector lost ground, with British Telecom off 2.6 per cent, Vodafone 1 per cent lower and Cable and Wireless down 0.8 per cent. 
   CObasf : BASF SE | dbptel : Deutsche Telekom AG   INi25 : Chemicals | i7902 : Telecommunications   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | eec : European Union | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations   REasia :  | asiaz : Asia | easiaz : Eastern Asia | eecz : European Union Countries | eur :  | eurz : Europe | gfr : Germany | jap : Japan | nam :  | namz : North America | usa : United States | weur :  | weurz : Western Europe   IPCEconomic News | Interest Rates | Economic Indicators | BASF AG | Deutsche Telekom AG | Bank of Japan | Federal Reserve USA | Far East | European Union | Europe | Germany | United States of America | Americas | Japan | Pacific Rim | Western Europe | North America | Asia   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument ftcom00020010715dx3j00j8l  



 HDPreview - UK investors seek respite.   BYBy PHILIP COGGAN.    WC212 words   PD19 March 2001   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPUK equity investors will be hoping for a respite after the selling pressure that drove the market down to two-year lows last week. Their best hope probably lies across the Atlantic, in the form of a further interest rate cut from the US Federal Reserve.

In domestic terms, there is a flood of data on Tuesday, with most interest focused on February retail price numbers. They are expected to show that the underlying rate (which excludes mortgage interest payments) rose 0.4 per cent on the month and 1.8 per cent on the year, below the government's 2.5 per cent target. The headline rate should edge down to 2.6 per cent, from 2.7 per cent in February. Also released on Tuesday will be broad money supply growth for February, the public sector net cash requirement and trade figures. The trade numbers are expected to show a GBP2.5bn global deficit in January, according to a consensus forecast compiled by Standard &Poor'sMMS.
   TDWednesday sees the release of the minutes of the March meeting of the monetary policy committee. The committee left interest rates unchanged but markets will be eager for any hint of cuts on the way. 
   INi81501 : Credit Types/Services | i8150103 : Mortgages/Real Estate Credit | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSc31 : Marketing | c314 : Pricing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1102 : Money Supply | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | eec : European Union | gcat : Political/General News | gpol : Domestic Politics | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations   REeecz : European Union Countries | eur :  | eurz : Europe | nam :  | namz : North America | uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | weur :  | weurz : Western Europe   IPCMoney Supply | Government News | Economic News | Interest Rates | General News | Mortgages &Mortgage Rates | Economic Indicators | Federal Reserve USA | European Union | Europe | United Kingdom | United States of America | Americas | Pacific Rim | Western Europe | North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument ftcom00020010715dx3j00itl  
 Page 1 of 1      2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.


 

 Page 1      2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.

