 


 HD Fed's rate cut fails to excite Main Street.    WC636 words   PD4 January 2001   ET01:22   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 Reuters Limited
   LP CHICAGO/NEW YORK, Jan 3 (Reuters) - The euphoria unleashed on Wall Street by the Federal Reserve's interest rate cut on Wednesday failed to trickle down to everyday Americans numbed by higher energy bills and wary of a slowing economy. 

 From the concrete canyons of lower Manhattan to Chicago's downtown "Loop", people said the Fed's surprise move to cut interest rates in the hopes of keeping the economy from slowing too much would not make much of a difference in their personal lives. 
   TD Reactions to the surprise move by the Fed - its first half-percentage reduction in its key federal funds rate since 1992 in a move that could bolster sagging consumer confidence - was filtered through the lenses of class and circumstance. 

 Mark Bedford, who has about $30,000 in debt, including house, car and credit card payments, said a rate cut two decades ago when the economy was in the dumps would have made a difference in his life, but not now. 

 "In the early 1980s, it made a difference (when the Fed raised rates to cut double-digit inflation)," said Bedford, as he stood on Jackson Street in the Loop. "Inflation was so high and the economy was bad - we lost the house, the car, and our jobs," he said, referring to himself and his first wife, who were laid off from International Harvester. 

 "Now it wouldn't affect us - but it would to someone just starting out." 

 Dressed in jeans and a winter coat pinned with American and Irish flags, Chicago-based Jerry O'Connell said he does not own his home, so the Fed's move to cut the overnight bank lending rate by a half-percentage point to 6 percent won't reduce mortgage payments for him. 

 As for credit card debt, he said: "I pay mine off every time, so that won't affect me," O'Connell said. "I don't pay too much attention to it. From what I've read or hear on TV, it seems like a normal cycle. Good times can't last forever." 

 The handful of people interviewed in New York said much the same about the interest rate cut, which sent the Nasdaq composite stock index soaring to its biggest ever one-day gain in percentage terms. 

 "It's not going to effect me, but it's nice to know," said Dean Kustas, an investment and insurance planner, as he walked briskly up Pearl Street in Manhattan's financial district. 

 "I'm still going to spend what I need to spend," adding that despite the souring economy, his day-to-day life wouldn't change. 

 Kustas indicated that he was aware the Fed was expected to cut rates but he was surprised it happened today. Prices for heating oil and natural gas were still a greater concern, he said. 

 The average household heating bill is expected to double this winter, according to a Goldman Sachs research paper. Analysts see natural gas prices remaining high throughout 2001 given strong demand and dwindling stockpiles, leaving the 60 million U.S. households using natural gas with less money to buy other goods and services. 

 Sam Silva, a heating, ventilation and air conditioning technician from Brooklyn, said the rate cut would be nice for rich people. 

 "It doesn't make a big difference to the middle class, and it doesn't make a bit of difference to poor people." 

 Despite the cold and freezing rain in Chicago, for newlyweds John and Jeannette Krueger, who were married four days ago and were in Chicago on their honeymoon, there was a blessing in the Fed's move. 

 "It (the cut) will make a difference in buying a house," said John Krueger, a high school math teacher from Kalamazoo, Mich. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   ANDocument lba0000020010713dx1405pee  



 HD UPDATE 2-NZ rate hike risk seen lower after US cut.    BY By Ellen Read    WC962 words   PD4 January 2001   ET07:10   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 Reuters Limited
   LP WELLINGTON, Jan 4 (Reuters) - The U.S. Federal Reserve's surprise interest rate cut has lessened the likelihood of the Reserve Bank of New Zealand (RBNZ) raising its official cash rate (OCR) at the end of the month, economists said on Thursday. 

 The Federal Reserve has slashed 50 basis points from its fed funds overnight rate, taking the key interest rate to six percent. The RBNZ left its official rate on hold at 6.5 percent in December but signalled further small rate hikes were likely. The next scheduled review is on January 24 at 9 a.m. (2000 GMT). 
   TD The Fed's move, four weeks ahead of the year's first scheduled meeting of the rate-setting Federal Open Market Committee, was the first half-percentage point reduction in the fed funds rate since mid-1992. 

 The announcement sent the Dow Jones industrial average up almost three percent, while the technology-heavy Nasdaq composite index surged more than 14 percent, its biggest daily gain ever. 

 The rise in stock prices - in the hope of a stronger U.S. economy - took the shine off Treasuries where prices tumbled. The U.S. dollar rose against major currencies. 

 The U.S. easing tempered economists expectations for an RBNZ January hike. 

 A Reuters poll taken just before Christmas showed eight of 19 economists surveyed thought the RBNZ would raise the cash rate in January. Seven others picked a hike in Q1 without specifying a month. 

 National Bank of New Zealand economist Joselyn Stroombergen said the bank had abandoned its January hike forecast in favour of a possible 25 basis point hike in March. 

 "We've got a question mark over the 25 in March but the question mark's getting bigger. It's probably getting close to 50/50 now," she said, attributing the changed forecast to the U.S. move and a slowdown in the international environment which was cited in December as a risk by the RBNZ. 

 Sydney-based HSBC senior economist Grant Fitzner has also shifted away from forecasting a January hike by the RBNZ and now believes the next move will be an easing. 

 He rated a January hike as a 15 percent risk, with a January easing given an equal risk rating. 

 "By the time of the next monetary policy statement on March 14, the opportunity for any further rate tightening will well and truly have passed," Fitzner said in a commentary. 

 By then, he expected both the United States and Australia to have carried out further easings while New Zealand inflation would have retreated. 

 "The greater risk is that the March MPS could see the start of New Zealand's easing cycle, not another rate hike," Fitzner said. 

 If Q4 2000 GDP figures confirmed soft demand and Q1 2001 consumer price index (CPI) data showed easing inflation pressures, he forecast an RBNZ rate cut in Q2 and a cash rate of no more than 5.5 percent by yearend. 

 SOME SEE FURTHER HIKE POTENTIAL 

 Deutsche Bank fixed income strategist David Plank said the prospect of a New Zealand tightening in March has receded, but he saw the RBNZ retaining a tightening bias. 

 "The improving outlook for headline inflation (the CPI will fall sharply in the March quarter as the result of lower oil prices) also gives the RBNZ more time to monitor the global outlook," he said in a commentary. 

 "At this stage we still think the next move in NZ rates is up - but perhaps not as soon as looked likely at the end of last year." 

 ANZ Bank also tipped NZ interest rates to rise more slowly, but said hikes were not necessarily off the horizon. 

 "Further signs of recovery in the domestic economy over coming months are still expected to prompt the (Reserve) Bank to raise the OCR during the first half of 2001," ANZ said in a commentary. 

 It acknowledged that the Fed move moved short term interest rate differentials squarely in New Zealand's favour, a development which could support further gains for the kiwi over time and lessen the need for a New Zealand hike. 

 However ANZ noted: "The initial impact has been quite the opposite. Markets have instead focused on the potential boost to the U.S. economy's flagging growth prospects and the U.S. dollar and equity markets have bounced accordingly." 

 The bank added that just as it had been unclear how much a weakening NZ dollar had impacted on activity and inflation last year, it was similarly unclear how a stronger NZ dollar would remove the need for a hike. 

 RATE DIFFERENTIAL HELPS RBNZ 

 Bancorp said the differential opening up between New Zealand and U.S. official rates had done the work of the RBNZ. 

 "The move means a great deal of relief for the Reserve Bank governor and his policy setting chums, as the thoughts of international interest rate relativities are much clearer now," Bancorp said in its daily commentary. 

 Ord Minnett economist John Gallacher said the move in the U.S. gave him no reason to alter his New Zealand view - which is rates remaining on hold in the near future with a possible 25 basis point hike in 2002. 

 "I haven't changed my view. I don't think they'll tighten and I don't think they'll ease. (The U.S. move) helps the currency story by increasing the interest rate differential," he said. 

 "The reason all along why we've had not much upside for interest rates is that we expected the currency to recover and to tighten monetary policy through the currency rather than through interest rates and dampen down the export story a little bit," Gallacher said. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REausnz : Australia/Oceania | namz : North America | nz : New Zealand | usa : United States   ANDocument lba0000020010713dx1404cpm  



 HD ECB holds euro interest rates steady amid turmoil over sudden US rate cut ATTENTION - ADDS analyst comment, background ///    WC788 words   PD4 January 2001   SNAgence France-Presse   SCAFPR   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright 2001) 
   LP FRANKFURT, Jan 4 (AFP) - The European Central Bank (ECB) held its key interest rates steady on Thursday at the first regular fortnightly meeting of its governing council this year, refusing to be panicked into any action following the surprise rate cut on the other side of the Atlantic on Wednesday. 

 As widely expected, the ECB held the minimum bid rate for its regular refinancing operations steady at 4.75 percent against a background of turmoil on financial markets in response to the US cut. 
   TD And the central bank, which determines monetary policy for the 12- nation euro zone, also left unchanged its other two rates -- the deposit rate at 3.75 percent and the marginal lending rate at 5.75 percent. 

 The euro was changing hands at about 0.9431 dollars after the ECB decision, little changed from 0.9439 dollars shortly beforehand. 

 No change had been expected from the bank, so early in the year, even though the US Federal Reserve had announced a surprise reduction in US interest rates on Wednesday in response to the sharp slowdown in US economic activity. 

 The US cut has boosted stock markets around the world and unsettled strength of the euro only briefly. 

 The meeting on Thursday was held in the form of a teleconference, and with no news conference scheduled afterwards, few economists had been expecting any changes in euro-zone interest rates anyway. 

 But the US rate cut on Wednesday appeared to pave the way for euro- zone interest rates to come down as well later this year, economists here argued. 

 CSFB economist Julian Callow said that a corresponding monetary easing in Europe was "now squarely on the agenda". 

 He said: "It now looks difficult for the ECB to resist some follow- up, but it is unlikely to act swiftly." 

 A currency economist at Bear Stearns, Steve Barrow, was also convinced that the next move in euro-zone interest rates would be downwards rather than upwards as a few people had suggested. 

 "We are convinced that the next move will be a cut and not a hike. But we doubt that the first move will come for some time yet," Barrow said. 

 Rabobank economists said that a move by the ECB at such an early stage would have sent the wrong signals to the markets. 

 "We think that (the US rate cut) could bring an ECB step closer in time. But a rate cut this soon would simply be in conflict with recent hawkish remarks from ECB officials," they said. 

 Furthermore, the euro would be more helped by a stable, predictable policy than by unexpected drastic moves. 

 The ECB would also want to avoid being seen as simply following the US Federal Reserve. 

 And unexpected rate cuts by the two most powerful central banks in the world in just two days might have sparked fears that the global economy was in a worse state than expected, economists argued. 

 Just minutes before the ECB announced its decision to hold euro- zone rates steady, a leading member of the Bundesbank, Hans Reckers, had said that nothing pointed to a reduction in euro-zone interest rates just yet, nor for the foreseeable future. 

 Reckers insisted that the US rate cut would not have any immediate implications for European monetary policy. 

 "The ECB must and will set its monetary policy on the basis of its own analysis of the situation in the euro area," he said. 

 "Interest-rate decisions by other banks, while part of the wider range of data, cannot be seen as a guideline" for the ECB's own monetary policy. 

 A number of factors continued to point to persisent inflationary risks in the single currency area, Reckers argued. 

 These included the euro-wide inflation rate of 2.9 percent in November; the ECB's recently published inflation projection of 1.8- 2.8 percent; the continuing high rate of producer price and import price inflation; and the dangers of a potential price spiral if wage negotiators used current inflation rates as an argument for high wage rises. 

 Some observers regard such fears as exaggerated. 

 On Wednesday, one of the leading economic research institutes in Germany, DIW, had criticised the ECB for choking off euro-zone growth by raising its key rates by 2.25 percentage points over the past year. 

 By contrast, Deutsche Bank chief economist Norbert Walter said that the current level of interest rates in the euro area was "appropriate". 

 "The euro-zone economy is not really weak and an interest rate of 4.75 percent is an adequate level to start the new year," Walter said. 

 spm/hd 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REeur :  | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | usa : United States   IPDFinancial | SEQN: 0399 | Reckers, Hans   ANDocument afpr000020010709dx1400j0b  



 HD No indication of euro-zone rate cut just yet: Bundesbank member ATTENTION - ADDS details ///    WC344 words   PD4 January 2001   SNAgence France-Presse   SCAFPR   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright 2001) 
   LP FRANKFURT, Jan 4 (AFP) - Bundesbank central council member Hans Reckers said on Thursday that there was no indication that the European Central Bank would cut euro-zone interest rates yet, even though the US Federal Reserve had cut US interest rates in a surprise move on Wednesday. 

 Reckers, who is president of the regional central bank for the state of Hesse, said: "Nothing points to a reduction in euro-zone interest rates, not only with respect to the ECB meeting today (Thursday), but for the foreseeable future." 
   TD The ECB's governing council, the body responsible for setting interest rates for the 12-country euro zone, was meeting on Thursday for the first time this year. 

 No rate moves were expected, even though the surprise rate cut in the United States on Wednesday raised the prospect that euro-zone interest rates would also start coming down this year. 

 The US Federal Reserve trimmed half a point from its key rates to support the slumping US economy. 

 A hard landing in the US could have knock-on effects for the euro- zone economy. 

 But Reckers insisted that the US rate cut would not have any immediate implications for European monetary policy. 

 "The ECB must and will set its monetary policy on the basis of its own analysis of the situation in the euro area," he said. 

 "Interest-rate decisions by other banks, while part of the wider range of data, cannot be seen as a guideline" for the ECB's own monetary policy. 

 A number of factors continued to point to persisent inflationary risks in the single currency area, Reckers argued. 

 These included the euro-wide inflation rate of 2.9 percent in November; the ECB's recently published inflation projection of 1.8- 2.8 percent; the continuing high rate of producer price and import price inflation; and the dangers of a potential price spiral if wage negotiators used current inflation rates as an argument for high wage rises. 

 spm/hd 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPDFinancial | SEQN: 0345 | Reckers, Hans   ANDocument afpr000020010709dx1400ivu  



 HD US Fed decision may pave way for Philippine rate cut: central bank    WC241 words   PD4 January 2001   SNAgence France-Presse   SCAFPR   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright 2001) 
   LP MANILA, Jan 4 (AFP) - The surprise cut to US interest rates may pave the way for the Philippines to ease its rates further to help businesses suffering from the economic slowdown, the central bank governor said Thursday. 

 "The Fed reduction is welcome news to us. It came earlier than expected. This will give the central bank more flexibility in moving the rates," Central Bank of the Philippine Governor Rafael Buenaventura said of the Federal Reserve's move to cut interest rates Wednesay by half a percentage point. 
   TD The Philippine central bank's policy-making monetary board meets on Friday to decide whether to cut overnight rates. 

 Earlier this week, Buenaventura had said the overnight borrowing rate could drop to 11-12 percent from the current level of 13.5 percent. He did not give a time frame. 

 Buenaventura said the volatility of the peso and rising inflation would be among factors to be considered before a decision to lower interest rates was made. 

 Interest rates had been jacked up to slow the fall of the peso amid a political crisis stemming from charges that President Joseph Estrada took bribes from illegal gambling barons. He is now facing a Senate corruption trial. 

 Philippine share prices rose 1.7 percent on Thursday, buoyed by the first interest rate cut in the United States in two years, analysts said. 

 mm/pp/bro 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REasiaz : Asia | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | namz : North America | phlns : Philippines | seasiaz : Southeast Asia | usa : United States   IPDInternational | SEQN: 0250 | Buenaventura, Rafael   ANDocument afpr000020010709dx1400ink  



 HD US banks lower their prime rates in aftermath of Fed move    WC125 words   PD4 January 2001   SNAgence France-Presse   SCAFPR   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright 2001) 
   LP WASHINGTON, Jan 4 (AFP) - Most US banks on Thursday lowered their prime lending rates, charged their best customers, in response to a decision by the Federal Reserve to cut its benchmark interest rate half a point. 

 Central bank policymakers on Wednesday reduced the federal funds rate, a target figure used by banks making overnight loans among themselves, from 6.5 to six percent. 
   TD The Bank of America on Thursday said it had brought its prime rate down to nine percent from 9.5. 

 A similar move was taken by JP Morgan Chase late Wednesday. 

 Also making credit easier to obtain were Wells Fargo, FleetBoston Financial, Dollar Bank and M and T Bank. 

 nh/ksb 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPDFinancial | SEQN: 0586   ANDocument afpr000020010709dx1400gak  



 HD Kuwait cuts discount rate by half point to 6.75 percent    WC137 words   PD4 January 2001   SNAgence France-Presse   SCAFPR   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright 2001) 
   LP KUWAIT CITY, Jan 4 (AFP) - The Central Bank of Kuwait (CBK) decided Thursday to cut its discount rate by half a point to 6.75 percent, following the US example, the official news agency KUNA reported. 

 "This decision comes within CBK's ongoing follow-up of local and international economic and monetary developments," the bank's governor Sheikh Salem Abdul Aziz al-Sabah told KUNA. 
   TD He noted that the US Federal Reserve on Wednesday cut its benchmark interest rate by a half percentage point to avoid a recession. 

 The oil-rich Gulf state, whose currency is linked to the greenback at a fixed exchange rate of 3.3 dollars to the dinar, raised its discount rate by half a point on May 18. 

 ezz/hc/mb 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REasiaz : Asia | gulfstz : Persian Gulf Regions | kuwait : Kuwait | meastz : Middle East | namz : North America | usa : United States | wasiaz : Western Asia   IPDFinancial | SEQN: 0452   ANDocument afpr000020010709dx1400g4x  



 HDFRONT PAGE - FIRST SECTION - Fed acts with surprise cut in interest rates - Half-point move comes as ...   BYBy GERARD BAKER.    WC559 words   PD4 January 2001   SNFinancial Times   SCFTFT   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPFRONT PAGE - FIRST SECTION - Fed acts with surprise cut in interest rates - Half-point move comes as data prompt recession fears.

The US Federal Reserve moved with unusual urgency yesterday to halt the slide in the American economy with a surprise half-point cut in its key interest rate and a promise that there could be more to follow.
   TDFor the first time since the world economy hit the depths of the Asian financial crisis in 1998, the US central bank reduced short-term interest rates between scheduled meetings of its policy-making open market committee.

In acknowledgement of the severity of the economic conditions the US faces, the rate cut was twice the quarter-point reduction it authorised then.

Explaining its decision to cut its target for the Fed funds rate by 50 basis points to 6 per cent, the committee said there was growing evidence of a broad-based economic slowdown. "These actions were taken in light of further weakening of sales and production, and in the context of lower consumer confidence, tight conditions in some segments of financial markets, and high energy prices sapping household and business purchasing power," it said.

Inflation pressures remained "contained" and there was little evidence to suggest longer-term advances in technology and associated gains in productivity were abating.

Hinting that further interest rate cuts could be on the way - perhaps as early as the next scheduled FOMC meeting on January 30 and 31 - it said the balance of economic risks in the immediate future were still weighted towards a weakening in conditions rather than growing inflationary pressures.

George Bush, president-elect, said: "I am pleased ... I think the cut was needed. It was a strong statement that measures must be taken to make sure our economy does not go into a tailspin."

The decision to cut interest rates was taken during a speedily arranged 11am conference call. It was accompanied by a decision by the Fed's board of governors to cut its largely symbolic discount rate by a quarter of a percentage point to 5.75 per cent. The central bank also said it stood ready to cut that rate by a further 25 basis points.

The moves followed accumulating evidence that the US has, in the space of a few months, plunged from rapid rates of growth in the middle of last year - of over 5 per cent at an annualised rate - to a slowdown that has brought it perilously close to its first recession in 10 years.

Figures on Monday showed US manufacturing activity last month at its weakest since the country emerged from the recession of 1990-91. Most economists estimate that growth slowed to about 2.5 per cent in the last three months of 2000.

Though the Fed had been expected to cut rates this month, markets were surprised by the timing and scale of the move.

Alan Greenspan, Fed chairman, hinted at a change in the Fed's thinking about economic risks in a speech a month ago.

On December 19, at the last scheduled FOMC meeting, the central bank left interest rates unchanged, although it shifted its assessment of economic risks facing the economy as weighted towards a slowdown rather than inflation. 
   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnam :  | namz : North America | usa : United States   IPCInterest'sp'Rates | Economic'sp'News | Economic'sp'Indicators | Federal'sp'Reserve'sp'USA | United'sp'States'sp'of'sp'America | Americas | Pacific'sp'Rim | North'sp'America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument ftft000020010715dx1400nvc  



 HDFRONT PAGE - FIRST SECTION - Fed acts with surprise cut in interest rates - Half-point move comes as ...   BYBy GERARD BAKER.    WC605 words   PD4 January 2001   SNFinancial Times   SCFTFT   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPFRONT PAGE - FIRST SECTION - Fed acts with surprise cut in interest rates - Half-point move comes as data prompt recession fears.

The US Federal Reserve moved with unusual urgency yesterday to halt the slide in the American economy with a surprise half-point cut in its key interest rate and a promise that there could be more to follow.
   TDFor the first time since the world economy hit the depths of the Asian financial crisis in the autumn of 1998, the US central bank reduced short-term interest rates between scheduled meetings of its policy-making open market committee.

In acknowledgement of the severity of the economic conditions the US faces, the rate cut was twice the quarter-point reduction it authorised then.

Explaining its decision to cut its target for the Fed funds rate by 50 basis points to 6 per cent, the committee said there was growing evidence of a broad-based economic slowdown. "These actions were taken in light of further weakening of sales and production, and in the context of lower consumer confidence, tight conditions in some segments of financial markets, and high energy prices sapping household and business purchasing power," it said.

Inflation pressures remained "contained" and there was little evidence to suggest longer-term advances in technology and associated gains in productivity were abating.

Hinting that further interest rate cuts could be on the way - perhaps as early as the next scheduled FOMC meeting on January 30 and 31 - it said the balance of economic risks in the immediate future were still weighted towards a weakening in conditions rather than growing inflationary pressures.

George Bush, president-elect, said: "I am pleased ... I think the cut was needed. It was a strong statement that measures must be taken to make sure our economy does not go into a tailspin."

The decision to cut interest rates was taken during a speedily arranged 11am conference call. It was accompanied by a decision by the Fed's board of governors to cut its largely symbolic discount rate by a quarter of a percentage point to 5.75 per cent. The central bank also said it stood ready to cut that rate by a further 25 basis points.

The moves followed accumulating evidence that the US has, in the space of a few months, plunged from rapid rates of growth in the middle of last year - of over 5 per cent at an annualised rate - to a slowdown that has brought it perilously close to its first recession in 10 years.

Figures on Monday showed US manufacturing activity last month at its weakest since the country emerged from the recession of 1990-91. Most economists estimate that growth slowed to about 2.5 per cent in the last three months of 2000.

Though the Fed had been expected to cut rates this month, markets were surprised by the timing and scale of the move.

Alan Greenspan, Fed chairman, hinted at a fundamental change in the Fed's thinking about economic risks in a speech a month ago. On December 19, at the last scheduled FOMC meeting, the central bank left interest rates unchanged, although it shifted its assessment of economic risks facing the economy as weighted towards a slowdown rather than inflation.

However, speculation about a possible rate cut before the next scheduled FOMC meeting at the end of the month intensified over the holiday period. Editorial Comment, Page 18 Lex, Page 20 Cut boosts Bush's stance, Page 9 www.ft.com/useconomy. 
   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnam :  | namz : North America | usa : United States   IPCInterest'sp'Rates | Economic'sp'News | Economic'sp'Indicators | Federal'sp'Reserve'sp'USA | United'sp'States'sp'of'sp'America | Americas | Pacific'sp'Rim | North'sp'America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument ftft000020010715dx1400nzp  



 HDWORLD STOCK MARKETS -  Interest rate  cut boosts Wall Street.   BYBy LESIA RUDAKEWYCH.    WC432 words   PD4 January 2001   SNFinancial Times   SCFTFT   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPWall Street rallied sharplyin early afternoon trade after the Federal Reserve announced an unexpected interest rate cut of half a point to 6 per cent.

The move gave shares a quick boost, as the Dow jumped more than 350 points before giving up some of its gains, while the Nasdaq Composite leapt more than 200 points.
   TDAt the open, telecom and technology stocks led a modest revival, as investors bought up phone company shares and big cap names such as Microsoft.

By midsession investors had largely lost this enthusiasm, selling into the narrow rally and accelerating selling in other areas. Investors have been worried about cor porate earnings amid a slowing economy, while analysts have continued to downgrade stocks and sectors.

The Dow at the open gained on the back of IBM, Hewlett-Packard and SBC Communications. Early in the session AT&T, the best performer on the blue chip index, was up about 8 per cent at $19.75, while Microsoft was up around 3 per cent at $44.88. Sprint, Worldcom and other telephone companies also moved higher.

But there were pockets of weakness among phone equipment suppliers and broadband access companies. Shares of Efficient Networks and Turnstone Systems both plunged after they became the latest in the networking sector to report disappointing results. Efficient lost 34 per cent to $8.13.

A Robertson Stephens downgrade of the DSL market and Elastic Networks cost Elastic shares nearly 30 per cent in early trade. Corning and Foundry Networks also fell.

Semiconductor stocks, which pushed the Nasdaq higher early on, also held on to gains. Software shares had remained weaker, as Ariba, Commerce One and PMC-Sierra fell sharply.

Consumer goods were mixed, as were financials, outperforming industries such as energy and basic materials, which saw broad selling. Oil and oil services companies sank across the board, while health care and utilities also weakened.

Among individual movers, Family Dollar was one of the NYSE's worst performers, down around 10 per cent, after reporting quarterly results.

Retailers had been mixed, however, as Office Depot, the biggest US office-supply retailer, gained 8 per cent after announcing store closures and job cuts.

Toronto declined in early trading with weak technology leaders sending the 300 composite index down 67.51 to 8,544.00 at midsession.

Top weight Nortel Networks gave up 35 cents at C$45.00. Research in Motion fell C$5.95 to C$80.95 and Ballard Power came off C$1.65 at C$82.50. 
   NSc31 : Marketing | c314 : Pricing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m11 : Equity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REcana : Canada | nam :  | namz : North America | usa : United States   IPCMarkets | Prices | Interest'sp'Rates | Market'sp'News | Equities | Economic'sp'News | Market'sp'Reports | Company'sp'News | Economic'sp'Indicators | Federal'sp'Reserve'sp'USA | Canada | United'sp'States'sp'of'sp'America | Americas | Pacific'sp'Rim | North'sp'America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument ftft000020010715dx1400ntk  



 HDLEX COLUMN - The Greenspan put LEX COLUMN.   WC287 words   PD4 January 2001   SNFinancial Times   SCFTFT   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPIt's official: there is a Greenspan put option. Yesterday's half a percentage point interest rate cut by the US Federal Reserve may not have been designed explicitly to bail out the stock market. But that is exactly what it is in danger of doing - especially since the cut came between official meetings, thereby heightening its impact.
   TDThat the fundamentals justify this move, which smacks of panic, is far from clear. Yes, the US economy is slowing quite rapidly. Confidence is falling among both consumers and businesses, as Tuesday's National Association of Purchasing Managers report suggested. Even the housing market may be weakening, judging by the drop in new mortgage applications. But a slowdown, from growth of over 5 per cent to, say, 2 1/2 per cent, was badly needed. And few forecasters were expecting a recession. Now, of course, given how aggressively the Fed is prepared to ease - this is surely just the first in a series of cuts - growth is likely to accelerate away again in the second half of the year.

Investors have every cause for short-term celebration, and shares duly soared on the news. But in the longer term, Alan Greenspan, Fed chairman, may not be doing anyone a favour. Working off the excesses of an overvalued stock market is a painful but necessary process - and one that arguably still had some way to run in the case of technology stocks. By showing investors he will rescue them come what may, he is encouraging excessive risk-taking and the formation of future bubbles. Investors should ask themselves whether in fostering such a classic moral hazard the Fed is really being their friend. 
   NSc15 : Performance | c152 : Earnings Projections | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnam :  | namz : North America | usa : United States   IPCInterest'sp'Rates | Comment'sp''amp''sp'Analysis | Economic'sp'News | Company'sp'News | Economic'sp'Indicators | Market'sp'Data | Federal'sp'Reserve'sp'USA | United'sp'States'sp'of'sp'America | Americas | Pacific'sp'Rim | North'sp'America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument ftft000020010715dx1400nr5  



 HDUS economy shows further signs of slowing.   BYBy PERONET DESPEIGNES IN WASHINGTON, ED CROOKS IN LONDON AND TONY BARBER IN FRANKFURT.    WC556 words   PD4 January 2001   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPThe euphoria following the surprise interest rate cut from the Federal Reserve faded on Thursday as more indications appeared of the growing weakness of the US economy.

The International Monetary Fund contributed to the gloom by saying it planned to reduce "meaningfully" its forecast for global growth.
   TDStock markets held on to their gains of the previous day, but made no further progress. In early afternoon trading both the Dow Jones index and the Nasdaq were slightly lower. The dollar slipped back against the euro, which rose back above 95c during the day.

Futures markets moved to price in a further 1.25 percentage point cut in the Federal funds rate from its current 6 per cent by next August.

Further signs of the US economic slowdown came in a surge in corporate layoffs and in demand for unemployment benefits, and a sharp drop in a principal indicator of activity in the nation's service sector.

The National Association of Purchasing Management said its index of service-sector activity slid to its lowest level in a year, from 58.5 to 53. The indicator suggests that growth in the service sector, which has so far offset the contraction in manufacturing, persists but at a much slower pace than a few months ago.

The Chicago-based international outplacement firm Challenger, Gray &Christmas said its monthly estimate of layoffs among top US corporations tripled from 44,152 in November to 133,713 in December, with the bulk of the rise coming from retailers and auto companies

And the Labor Department said initial weekly claims on unemployment insurance rose to 375,000 in the week ending December 30: their highest level since July 1998. The figures showed the sharpest increases in and around the Midwest, the industrial heartland of the US.

Unemployment insurance claims have risen fastest more quickly than in any seven-month period since the 1990-1991 recession, although the official unemployment rate has risen only slightly.

Some economists have speculated that the urgency shown by the Fed in making a surprise rate cut ahead of the scheduled open market committee meeting on January 30-31 may have been because policymakers had early access to the December unemployment figures, which are due for release on Friday.

Michael Mussa, the IMF's chief economist, said he thought the chance of a sharp global slowdown was remote. But he said he thought the IMF's latest forecasts, made last year, were now over-optimistic.

He said: "The data in recent weeks suggest some general slowing across the global economy, most pronounced in the US and Japan, and signs of slowing among the large economies of Europe", he said.

The European Central Bank on Thursday kept its main interest rate unchanged at 4.75 per cent, in line with market expectations.

The ECB is concerned about the potential inflationary impact of last year's high oil prices and the euro's weakness, and wants to monitor forthcoming wage settlements in the euro-zone carefully. But economists said the ECB might cut rates as early as February or March, especially if policymakers accept the Fed's analysis that the US is at risk of falling into a sharp downturn. 
   NSc15 : Performance | c152 : Earnings Projections | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News   REnam :  | namz : North America | usa : United States   IPCInterest Rates | Forecasts &Predictions | Economic News | General News | Economic Indicators | Federal Reserve USA | United States of America | Americas | Pacific Rim | North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument ftcom00020010715dx14008t8  



 HDEuphoria fades over US rate cut.   BYBy ED CROOKS IN LONDON, PERONET DESPEIGNES IN WASHINGTON AND TONY BARBER IN FRANKFURT.    WC503 words   PD4 January 2001   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPThe euphoria following Wednesday's surprise interest rate cut from the US Federal Reserve boosted share prices on Thursday, but began to fade as more indications appeared of the growing weakness of the US economy.

The International Monetary Fund contributed to the gloom by saying it planned to revise down "meaningfully" its forecast for global growth.
   TDExpectations rose in the financial markets that the Bank of England could follow the Fed's lead and cut British interest rates as early as next week. Businesses and trade unions called on the Bank to respond quickly to the worsening international outlook.

But new figures on the state of the housing market, retail trading over Christmas and the health of the service industries suggested there was still enough momentum in the domestic economy to hold the Bank's monetary policy committee back from cutting rates at once.

Shares in London jumped immediately trading opened and held on to their gains all day. The FTSE 100 closed up 145.7 points, or 2.4 per cent. But by early afternoon trading in New York the Dow Jones Industrial Average and the Nasdaq Composite were showing falls.

Further signs of a US economic slowdown came in a surge in corporate job losses, demand for unemployment benefits and a sharp drop in a principal indicator of activity in the nation's service sector.

The National Association of Purchasing Management said its index of service-sector activity slid to its lowest level in a year, from 58.5 to 53. The indicator suggests that growth in the service sector, which has so far offset the contraction in manufacturing, persists but at a much slower pace than a few months ago.

Michael Mussa, the IMF's chief economist, said he thought the chance of a sharp global slowdown was remote and there was a less than 50 per cent chance of growth slowing to less than 2 per cent in the US. But he said he thought the IMF's forecast of 4.2 per cent growth for the world economy, made last autumn, was over-optimistic.

"The data in recent weeks suggest some general slowing across the global economy, most pronounced in the US and Japan, and signs of slowing among the large economies of Europe," he said.

The European Central Bank announced on Thursday that it had decided as expected to leave its main interest rate unchanged at 4.75 per cent. It is concerned about the potential inflationary impact of last year's high oil prices and the euro's weakness, and wants to monitor forthcoming wage settlements carefully.

Economists said the ECB might cut interest rates as early as February or March, especially if policymakers accept the Fed's analysis that the US is at risk of falling into a sharp downturn. But the cuts in Europe are expected to be more modest than in the US. 
   NSc15 : Performance | c152 : Earnings Projections | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | m11 : Equity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REnam :  | namz : North America | usa : United States   IPCMarkets | Interest Rates | Market News | Forecasts &Predictions | Equities | Economic News | Market Reports | General News | Economic Indicators | Federal Reserve USA | United States of America | Americas | Pacific Rim | North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument ftcom00020010715dx14008t5  



 HDECB holds rates at 4.75 per cent.   BYBy BETTINA WASSENER IN FRANKFURT.    WC285 words   PD4 January 2001   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPThe European Central Bank left interest rates on hold at 4.75 per cent on Thursday, as widely expected.

The US Federal Reserve's surprise decision on Wednesday to lower its key interest rate by 50 basis points had not been expected to trigger a move by the ECB, though economists said the Fed decision might make an ECB cut more likely in coming months.
   TDBefore the Fed's decision, many observers had expected the ECB to lower rates later on in the year.

Wim Duisenberg, the ECB president, last week indicated that he perceives risks to euro-zone price stability to be finely balanced. Inflation remains well above the ECB's ceiling of 2 per cent, though inflationary pressures have eased with the recovery of the euro over the last few weeks, lower international oil prices and moderate money supply data.

Despite the current slowdown in the pace of economic growth, the euro-zone economy is not showing the same distress signals that prompted the Fed's move on Wednesday.

The ECB still expects growth to settle at 3 per cent this year, while recent business sentiment surveys have confirmed that euro-zone growth is not as buoyant as early in 2000. The slowdown was shown to be less pronounced than in the US however.

In the longer term, however, the US slowdown will impact growth in Europe, making a cut in the second half of the year more likely. Much will depend on the euro's performance. If the single currency managed to maintain its upward momentum, this would give the ECB the leeway it needs for to ease rates. 
   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnam :  | namz : North America | usa : United States   IPCInterest Rates | Economic News | Economic Indicators | Federal Reserve USA | European Central Bank | United States of America | Americas | Pacific Rim | North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument ftcom00020010715dx14008rm  



 HD U.S. oil prices rise on Fed rate cut, OPEC worries.    BY By Richard Valdmanis    WC565 words   PD3 January 2001   ET21:13   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 Reuters Limited
   LP NEW YORK, Jan 3 (Reuters) - U.S. crude oil prices rose sharply Wednesday after the Federal Reserve announced a surprise interest rate cut to bolster a slowing economy, and amid on-going signals that oil cartel OPEC will cut back production early this year. 

 The strength, however, did not stop a heavy decline in heating oil prices to fresh five month lows, caused by forecasts of milder weather in the Midwest and Plains regions and growing confidence in winter supply. 
   TD "There's some concern over crude oil in the coming months, but there also seems to be a consensus that the widely-predicted heating oil crisis has been averted," said one oil dealer. 

 Crude oil futures on the benchmark New York Mercantile Exchange (NYMEX) were 79 cents higher to $28.00 a barrel for February delivery, while heating oil was 1.08 cents lower to 85.50 cents a gallon, extending Tuesday's weakness. 

 Heating oil also hit an intraday low of 83.90 cents, bringing prices to their lowest level since August 10 when it traded at 82.80 cents a gallon. 

 Traders said the counter-intuitive decline in heating fuel prices since late-summer is due to heavy imports from Europe, the Mideast and Asia drawn by the early season panic. 

 But nerves remained frayed in the crude oil market as a surprise Federal Reserve interest rate cut, expected to breathe life into a slowing economy, collided with expectations that OPEC will significantly cut oil production after its meeting in Vienna January 17. 

 The Federal Reserve cut a key short-term interest rate by a half percentage point, a month before its scheduled meeting, and signaled it was prepared to cut borrowing costs further if needed to prevent the economy from slowing too much. 

 The Federal Reserve's move "provides some support (to the oil markets) as the cuts made will be a huge stimulus to the economy, increasing consumer confidence and stoking nascent demand," said John Kilduff, senior vice president for risk management at Fimat Futures in New York. 

 The prospect of increased demand adds weight to strong OPEC signals that it will cut global supplies to buoy petroleum prices, which have fallen by a hefty 25 percent since September. 

 OPEC's President Chakib Khelil confirmed on Wednesday the group has forged a consensus to cut production and may slash output even before its January meeting if prices remain undesirably low. 

 "Right now there is a large consensus among OPEC members to cut production but I can not tell you how big the reduction will be," said Khelil, also Algeria's oil minister. 

 A Saudi official told Reuters on Tuesday that OPEC power Saudi Arabia saw the need for the group to cut production by 1.5 million barrels a day to support prices. 

 Kuwait wants OPEC to cut output by between 1.5-2.0 million barrels a day, a Kuwaiti oil source said on Tuesday. 

 Despite the bullishness in petroleum prices and world equities markets after the Fed rate cut, U.S. oil company share prices were lower on the New York Stock Exchange, with Exxon Mobil down $1-1/2 to $87-5/8, Chevron Corp. down $3-4/16 to $82-11/16 and Texaco Inc. down $2-1/16 to $60-3/4. 
   INi1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1300003 : Crude Petroleum Extraction   NSc31 : Marketing | c314 : Pricing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations | opec : Org. of Petroleum Exporting Countries   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   ANDocument lba0000020010713dx1305siu  



 HD U.S. Fed makes surprise 50bps  interest rate  cut.    WC174 words   PD3 January 2001   ET20:14   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 Reuters Limited
   LP The US Fed made a 50bps cut in key short-term rates and said it may cut them further in response to slowing growth. 

 WASHINGTON, Jan 3 (Reuters) - The U.S. Federal Reserve on Wednesday said it had cut a key short-term interest rate by a half percentage point and said it was prepared to cut them further if needed to prevent the economy from slowing too much. 
   TD The move, which came four weeks ahead of the year's first scheduled meeting of the rate-setting Federal Open Market Committee, takes the fed funds overnight bank lending rate to 6 percent. 

 To underline its surprise move, the Fed also said it had cut the more symbolic discount rate on Fed loans to commercial banks by a quarter percentage point to 5.75 percent. 

 It was the first time the Fed cut interest rates between regular FOMC meetings since the fall of 1998, when a global economic crisis threatened to seize up world financial markets. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States | usdc : Washington DC   ANDocument lba0000020010713dx1305ry9  



 HD Bank of Canada has no comment on possible rate cut.    WC127 words   PD3 January 2001   ET20:08   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 Reuters Limited
   LP OTTAWA, Jan 3 (Reuters) - The Bank of Canada on Wednesday said it had no comment on whether it might cut rates in the wake of the U.S. Federal Reserve's surprise decision to shave a key short-term interest rate by half a percentage point to 6 percent. 

 "No comment," bank spokesman Pierre Laprise told Reuters when asked whether the Canadian central bank would cut its own trendsetting main rate, which stands at 6 percent. 
   TD Under the Bank of Canada's new system of fixed date rate changes, its next scheduled opportunity to change rates is Jan. 23. But the bank has reserved for itself the right to change rates at any time in extreme cases. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REcana : Canada | caon : Ontario | namz : North America | usa : United States   ANDocument lba0000020010713dx1305rww  



 HD ECB has no comment on U.S.  interest rate  cut.    WC89 words   PD3 January 2001   ET19:39   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 Reuters Limited
   LP FRANKFURT, Jan 3 (Reuters) - The European Central Bank on Wednesday declined to comment on the U.S. Federal Reserve's decision to cut interest rates by half a percentage point to six percent. 

 "We don't comment on interest rate decisions by other central banks," ECB spokesman Manfred Koerber told Reuters. 
   TD The move by the U.S. Fed came four weeks ahead of the year's first scheduled meeting of the rate-setting Federal Open Market Committee, surprising markets. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | e52 : Euro Zone/Currency | ecat : Economic News | eec : European Union | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations   REeurz : Europe | gfr : Germany | namz : North America | usa : United States | weurz : Western Europe   ANDocument lba0000020010713dx1305rqg  



 HD Fed cuts U.S. interest rates in surprise move.    WC150 words   PD3 January 2001   ET19:24   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 Reuters Limited
   LP WASHINGTON, Jan 3 (Reuters) - The U.S. Federal Reserve on Wednesday said it had cut a key short-term interest rate by a half percentage point and said it was prepared to cut them further if needed to prevent the economy from slowing too much. 

 The move, which came four weeks ahead of the year's first scheduled meeting of the rate-setting Federal Open Market Committee, takes the fed funds overnight bank lending rate to 6 percent. 
   TD To underline its surprise move, the Fed also said it had cut the more symbolic discount rate on Fed loans to commercial banks by a quarter percentage point to 5.75 percent. 

 It was the first time the Fed cut interest rates between regular FOMC meetings since the fall of 1998, when a global economic crisis threatened to seize up world financial markets. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States | usdc : Washington DC   ANDocument lba0000020010713dx1305ro3  



 HD Wall St foregoes lunch as Fed delivers shock rate cut.    BY By Emma-Kate Symons    WC471 words   PD4 January 2001   ET00:38   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 Reuters Limited
   LP NEW YORK, Jan 3 (Reuters) - Traders and brokers lunching at Harry's at Hanover Square, a bar and restaurant in Manhattan's financial district, made a quick dash for the exits Wednesday when news hit the Federal Reserve had cut interest rates. 

 Some were already on their way out at around 1.00 p.m., but the surprise move by the Fed to jump-start the slowing U.S. economy had the watering hole buzzing, according to owner Harry Poulakakos. 
   TD "Everybody was very excited," Poulakakos said. "They were on their way out already when they saw the results and they all went back to their offices very quickly." 

 When Fed chairman Alan Greenspan delivered his unexpected interest rate cut in the middle of another dismal trading session, shock and disbelief quickly gave way to frantic buying on trading floors in New York and financial centers across the United States. 

 "I was sitting here on the desk just getting through a sandwich and suddenly we had our treasury strategists squawking," said Bryan Piskorowski, vice president, market analyst, with Prudential Securities in New York. 

 "There was definitely a sense of euphoria on the floor." 

 Over at the Chicago Board Options Exchange, a roar went up in the pits. 

 "We did not see the news from the tape or the TV, but we heard the reaction from the index pits to the left (of us)," said Mike Benson, a market maker at Big Blue Trading. "It was a sudden roar. Our first thought is that they (the Fed) have cut rates." 

 The rate cut had an immediate effect on sagging stock markets, sending the technology-heavy Nasdaq Composite Index and the blue-chip Dow Jones industrial average rocketing higher. 

 By the close of trading, the Nasdaq had soared 14.17 percent, to 2,616.69, its largest gain in both point and percentage terms since the market was founded in 1971. The Dow climbed 299.60 points, or 2.81 percent, to 10.945.75, its eighth-largest point gain ever and its strongest close in two months. 

 They might have been mid-sandwich, but most traders and brokers were not out to lunch when the Fed threw its lifeline to a languishing stock market by cutting its key fed funds rate by half a percentage point to 6 percent - weeks before even the savviest forecasters had predicted. 

 In the chastened economic environment, where jobs are on the line and returns dwindling after Nasdaq's worst annual performance in its 29-year history, the trading desk was the place to be. 

 "I was buying thank goodness because, if I wasn't, I would be dead," John Gillette, senior trader at Lazard Freres said. "My back hurts. What a wild day." 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   ANDocument lba0000020010713dx1305pc7  



 HD UPDATE 2-Fed cuts key U.S. rates in surprise move.    BY By Knut Engelmann    WC716 words   PD3 January 2001   ET20:31   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 Reuters Limited
   LP WASHINGTON, Jan 3 (Reuters) - The U.S. Federal Reserve on Wednesday cut a key short-term interest rate by a half percentage point and signaled it was prepared to cut borrowing costs further if needed to prevent the world's top economy from turning sour, electrifying global financial markets. 

 The shock move, which came four weeks ahead of the year's first scheduled meeting of the rate-setting Federal Open Market Committee, takes the crucial fed funds overnight bank lending rate to 6 percent. The cut, decided in a conference call among FOMC members, was the first half-percentage point easing in that rate since mid-1992. 
   TD To underline its determination to keep the economy from hitting a brick wall, the Fed also said its Board of Governors had decided to cut the more symbolic discount rate on Fed loans to banks by a quarter percentage point to 5.75 percent. 

 The powerful central bank added that it was prepared to cut that rate further to 5.5 percent if necessary. 

 Financial markets surged within seconds of the Fed announcement, and advisers to U.S. President-elect George W. Bush - who has expressed mounting concern over an economic slowdown as he prepares to take over the presidency Jan. 20 - welcomed the decision as a much-needed dose of viagra. 

 It was the first time the Fed cut rates between regular FOMC meetings since the autumn of 1998, when a global economic crisis threatened to seize up world financial markets. 

 Shortly after the Fed's announcement, the Dow Jones industrial average was up more than 3 percent, while the technology-heavy Nasdaq composite index surged more than 11 percent. Both indices later gave back some of their gains. 

 The U.S. dollar rose against major currencies. 

 THE REASONING 

 "These actions were taken in light of further weakening of sales and production, and in the context of lower consumer confidence, tight conditions in some segments of financial markets, and high energy prices sapping household and business purchasing power," the central bank said in a statement. 

 "Moreover, inflation pressures remain contained. Nonetheless, to date there is little evidence to suggest that longer-term advances in technology and associated gains in productivity are abating," it added. 

 The Fed said that even with Wednesday's moves, it still saw the risks in the economy weighted toward economic weakness - clearly signaling that more rate cuts may come soon, possibly at the FOMC meeting scheduled for Jan. 30-31. 

 "They'll do more if they need to to ensure that the economy doesn't go into a tailspin," said Dana Johnson, senior managing director and head of research at Banc One Capital Markets Inc. in Chicago. "They're absolutely committed to doing everything they know how to do to prevent a hard landing." 

 NEVER WRONG 

 The Fed's move came as Bush was meeting with more than 30 business executives and chief executives about the state of the economy in a hotel in Austin, Texas. 

 Suddenly Lawrence Lindsey, Bush's chief economic adviser and a former Fed governor himself, burst into an adjoining room where the media were being held to pick up the news from a television set. Asked how he felt, Lindsey beamed and said: "Great. The Fed is always right." 

 In recent weeks, Bush and his team have repeatedly warned the U.S. economy is at risk of a dramatic slowdown, arguing this bolsters the case for an aggressive tax cut that has been a centerpiece of Bush's election campaign. 

 Wednesday's rate cut came hot on the heels of a slew of data which many analysts say have raised the odds of a sharp economic downturn that could hurt the rest of the world. 

 While a majority of economists is as yet unwilling to talk about a looming recession - officially defined as two successive quarters of negative growth - almost all forecasters have been scurrying to slash their U.S. growth forecasts dramatically. 

 A chilling report on manufacturing activity released on Tuesday added to the doom and gloom among many in U.S. financial markets. The National Association of Purchasing Manufacturers said manufacturing activity in December slumped to its lowest level in almost a decade. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States | usdc : Washington DC   ANDocument lba0000020010713dx1304cio  



 HD Bush pushes for tax cut despite Fed rate increase    BY By TOM RAUM    CRAssociated Press Writer   WC962 words   PD3 January 2001   ET20:58   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY Copyright 2001.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved. 
   LP AUSTIN, Texas (AP) - President-elect Bush, surrounded by titans of corporate America, welcomed the Fed's pre-emptive interest-rate cut on Wednesday as "bold action" to revive a stalling economy. 

 But he also argued that an accompanying across-the-board tax cut - such as the one he campaigned for - was needed to "make sure our economy does not go into a tailspin." 
   TD And many of his guests agreed. "We raised a glass of water to Mr. Greenspan ... and we embraced the president (-elect's) thinking around tax policy," said General Electric Co. chief executive Jack Welch. 

 Bush told reporters he had not gotten advance word from Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan about the half-point reduction in a key short-term interest rate. He disagreed that it might undercut his ability to sell his $1.3 trillion 10-year tax cut to a closely divided Congress. 

 Getting the economy back on track is "going to require not only monetary policy reform but also fiscal policy reform," he said. 

 Bush assembled a collection of three dozen corporate executives - many of them hard hit by slumping sales and a declining stock market - to talk about the economy. 

 "The economy is slowing. ... We know on Main Street we'll feel it first," said Jack Faris, president of the National Federation of Independent Business. 

 Bush also announced, as expected, that economist Larry Lindsey, a former Fed member, would head his White House economic team. 

 Lindsey, 46, held economic posts in the administrations of both Ronald Reagan and Bush's father, George Bush. 

 White House chief of staff Andrew Card said that Lindsey, whose formal title will be assistant to the president for economic policy, would oversee what is now known in the Clinton White House as the National Economic Council. 

 Bush will also name another economist as chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers, Card said. 

 John Taylor, a Stanford University economist and author of university textbooks on economic issues, was the leading contender for that post, other GOP aides said. 

 Bush and his guests got word of the Fed rate cuts while lunching at Austin's Stephen Austin Hotel. Asked if he had a heads-up from Greenspan, Bush said, "I did not." 

 In fact, Bush aide Dan Bartlett saw the news on television in an adjoining room where he was waiting with reporters. He quickly spread the word to lunch participants. 

 That prompted Lindsey to rush out and join the group of reporters, who filled him in on the developments. "Great," he said, beaming. "The Fed is always right." 

 Bush called the Fed's move a "strong statement" that action is needed "to make sure this economy stays vibrant." 

 "One of the messages Mr. Greenspan sent was that we need bold action, not only at the Fed, but I would interpret that to mean bold action in the halls of Congress," Bush said. 

 He said his tax cut plan, far larger than many Democrats in the divided Congress want, remains an "integral part of economic recovery." 

 "A lot of folks in this room have brought some pretty bad news," he said, referring to the corporate executives. 

 Bush was to hold a similar session on Thursday with exclusively high-tech officials. 

 He was expected to set up a special White House office to oversee high-technology issues and might be ready to name someone to head the office, some GOP officials suggested. 

 "We do all believe this will turn around," said Cisco System's John Chambers, one of the executives invited by Bush. "If we move quickly, perhaps it can turn around as quickly as one to two quarters." 

 Participants said that, for the most part, Bush listened as, one by one, they went over conditions in their own industries. 

 Magazine publisher Steve Forbes, a former GOP presidential hopeful, said that "much more has to be done" by the Fed in further cutting tax rates and that Bush's tax cut is "even better and more needed today" than he proposed it during the campaign. 

 "This is $1.3 trillion. It's small stuff," Forbes said, suggesting it was relatively small compared to the projected budget surplus. 

 Most of the executives were political or financial backers of his campaign, and they were supportive of his economic plans as well. One who wasn't was Stephen Brobeck, executive director of the Consumer Federation of America. 

 "I came in very skeptical about the advisability of a tax cut, speaking personally," he said. "I'm a little more open to that now." 

 He said that influencing him was the bleak tales told by corporate executives, "speaking very concretely about what was happening in their businesses." 

 Bush is clearly laying down a marker in the weeks before he takes office, Jan. 20, making sure Americans know about the "troubles that we're inheriting," as his spokesman, Ari Fleischer, put it. 

 Meanwhile, Fleischer said that Bush had invited the nation's GOP governors to meet with him on Saturday on his ranch, about a two-hour drive northwest of here, to discuss policy matters. He said about 14 had accepted. 

 Meanwhile, Bush got some conditional support from a large tax cut from House Minority Leader Dick Gephardt, D-Mo., who said he favors a larger cut now than he did only a few weeks ago because of enlarged budget surplus projections and the slowdown in the economy. 

 However, Gephardt predicted Democrats will continue to resist Bush's plan, which would cut all income tax rates but give the largest savings to the wealthy. 

 --- 

 On the Net: 

 Bush transition site: http://www.bushcheneytransition.com
   RFUrgent   ART AP Graphics BUSH CABINET, CHAVEZ BIO, ABRAHAM BIO, MINETA BIO    NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | e21 : Government Finance | e211 : Government Taxation/Revenue | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States | uss : Southern U.S. | ustx : Texas   IPCslda0748 | sel----- | tagdsa   IPDNational Politics | AP National News | BC-Bush | e101767bcbf7e206f914ffbbd33753ee   ANDocument aprs000020010709dx13019h3  



 HD Bush pushes for tax cut despite Fed rate increase    BY By TOM RAUM    CRAssociated Press Writer   WC962 words   PD3 January 2001   ET15:42   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY Copyright 2001.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved. 
   LP AUSTIN, Texas (AP) - President-elect Bush, surrounded by titans of corporate America, welcomed the Fed's pre-emptive interest-rate cut on Wednesday as "bold action" to revive a stalling economy. 

 But he also argued that an accompanying across-the-board tax cut - such as the one he campaigned for - was needed to "make sure our economy does not go into a tailspin." 
   TD And many of his guests agreed. "We raised a glass of water to Mr. Greenspan ... and we embraced the president (-elect's) thinking around tax policy," said General Electric Co. chief executive Jack Welch. 

 Bush told reporters he had not gotten advance word from Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan about the half-point reduction in a key short-term interest rate. He disagreed that it might undercut his ability to sell his $1.3 trillion 10-year tax cut to a closely divided Congress. 

 Getting the economy back on track is "going to require not only monetary policy reform but also fiscal policy reform," he said. 

 Bush assembled a collection of three dozen corporate executives - many of them hard hit by slumping sales and a declining stock market - to talk about the economy. 

 "The economy is slowing. ... We know on Main Street we'll feel it first," said Jack Faris, president of the National Federation of Independent Business. 

 Bush also announced, as expected, that economist Larry Lindsey, a former Fed member, would head his White House economic team. 

 Lindsey, 46, held economic posts in the administrations of both Ronald Reagan and Bush's father, George Bush. 

 White House chief of staff Andrew Card said that Lindsey, whose formal title will be assistant to the president for economic policy, would oversee what is now known in the Clinton White House as the National Economic Council. 

 Bush will also name another economist as chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers, Card said. 

 John Taylor, a Stanford University economist and author of university textbooks on economic issues, was the leading contender for that post, other GOP aides said. 

 Bush and his guests got word of the Fed rate cuts while lunching at Austin's Stephen Austin Hotel. Asked if he had a heads-up from Greenspan, Bush said, "I did not." 

 In fact, Bush aide Dan Bartlett saw the news on television in an adjoining room where he was waiting with reporters. He quickly spread the word to lunch participants. 

 That prompted Lindsey to rush out and join the group of reporters, who filled him in on the developments. "Great," he said, beaming. "The Fed is always right." 

 Bush called the Fed's move a "strong statement" that action is needed "to make sure this economy stays vibrant." 

 "One of the messages Mr. Greenspan sent was that we need bold action, not only at the Fed, but I would interpret that to mean bold action in the halls of Congress," Bush said. 

 He said his tax cut plan, far larger than many Democrats in the divided Congress want, remains an "integral part of economic recovery." 

 "A lot of folks in this room have brought some pretty bad news," he said, referring to the corporate executives. 

 Bush was to hold a similar session on Thursday with exclusively high-tech officials. 

 He was expected to set up a special White House office to oversee high-technology issues and might be ready to name someone to head the office, some GOP officials suggested. 

 "We do all believe this will turn around," said Cisco System's John Chambers, one of the executives invited by Bush. "If we move quickly, perhaps it can turn around as quickly as one to two quarters." 

 Participants said that, for the most part, Bush listened as, one by one, they went over conditions in their own industries. 

 Magazine publisher Steve Forbes, a former GOP presidential hopeful, said that "much more has to be done" by the Fed in further cutting tax rates and that Bush's tax cut is "even better and more needed today" than he proposed it during the campaign. 

 "This is $1.3 trillion. It's small stuff," Forbes said, suggesting it was relatively small compared to the projected budget surplus. 

 Most of the executives were political or financial backers of his campaign, and they were supportive of his economic plans as well. One who wasn't was Stephen Brobeck, executive director of the Consumer Federation of America. 

 "I came in very skeptical about the advisability of a tax cut, speaking personally," he said. "I'm a little more open to that now." 

 He said that influencing him was the bleak tales told by corporate executives, "speaking very concretely about what was happening in their businesses." 

 Bush is clearly laying down a marker in the weeks before he takes office, Jan. 20, making sure Americans know about the "troubles that we're inheriting," as his spokesman, Ari Fleischer, put it. 

 Meanwhile, Fleischer said that Bush had invited the nation's GOP governors to meet with him on Saturday on his ranch, about a two-hour drive northwest of here, to discuss policy matters. He said about 14 had accepted. 

 Meanwhile, Bush got some conditional support from a large tax cut from House Minority Leader Dick Gephardt, D-Mo., who said he favors a larger cut now than he did only a few weeks ago because of enlarged budget surplus projections and the slowdown in the economy. 

 However, Gephardt predicted Democrats will continue to resist Bush's plan, which would cut all income tax rates but give the largest savings to the wealthy. 

 --- 

 On the Net: 

 Bush transition site: http://www.bushcheneytransition.com
   RFRush   ART AP Graphics BUSH CABINET, CHAVEZ BIO, ABRAHAM BIO, MINETA BIO    NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | e21 : Government Finance | e211 : Government Taxation/Revenue | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States | uss : Southern U.S. | ustx : Texas   IPCsldd0746 | seltxtx- | tagtxdsd   IPDFinancial/Business | AP State Wires: Texas | BC-Bush | e101767bcbf7e206f914ffbbd33753ee   ANDocument aprs000020010709dx13016jq  



 HD US Fed cuts interest rates half a point    WC315 words   PD3 January 2001   SNAgence France-Presse   SCAFPR   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright 2001) 
   LP WASHINGTON, Jan 3 (AFP) - The US Federal Reserve on Wednesday cut its benchmark interest rate by a half a point to six percent, the central bank said in a statement here. 

 The Fed said the action was taken "in light of further weakening of sales and production and in the context of lower consumer confidence, tight conditions in some segments of financial markets and high energy prices sapping household and business purchasing power." 
   TD The move took analysts by surprise as it came between regularly scheduled meetings of the Fed's policymaking Open Market Committee. The panel is set to convene January 30-31. 

 The committee in particular lowered its federal funds rate, a target figure charged by banks making overnight loans among themselves, to six percent. 

 But the Fed also lowered the largely symbolic discount rate, charged member banks that borrow from it, by a quarter of a point to 5.75 percent. 

 The committee noted that inflation pressures remained in check, with little evidence to suggest that productivity gains were abating. 

 "Against the background of its long-run goals of price stability and sustainable economic growth and of the information available, the risks are weighted mainly toward conditions that may generate economic weakness in the foreseeable future," the committee said. 

 The Fed intervention came as fears mounted in the United States that the once high-flying US economy, bedeviled by high interest rates, weaker consumer spending and volatile energy prices, could slide into recession this year. 

 Economic growth in the third quarter of 2000 fell to 2.2 percent after 5.6 percent in the second, a trend confirmed by near daily reports of acute weakness in key sectors. 

 On Tuesday the National Association of Purchasing Management published a key index showing that manufacturing activity in December had plunged to a 10-year low. 

 nh/ch 
   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1101 : Economic Growth | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gcon : Consumer Affairs   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPDFinancial | SEQN: 0582 | Federal Reserve Board   ANDocument afpr000020010709dx1300hyw  



 HD CEOS BACK BUSH TAX CUTS - WANT MORE RATE CUTS FROM THE FED.    BY By Steven K. Beckner    WC1,053 words   PD3 January 2001   ET23:52   SNMarket News International   SCMARNEW   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001. Market News International, Inc.
   LP AUSTIN, Texas (MktNews) - President-elect George W. Bush and the group of top business leaders with whom he was meeting Wednesday to discuss the economy were pleasantly surprised when the Federal Reserve announced a sizable cut in interest rates immediately, instead of waiting for its Jan. 30-31 monetary policy meeting. 

 However, the general sense among the corporate executives was that the Fed had more credit easing to do and that tax cuts will also be needed to stimulate an economy which they portrayed as slowing rapidly. Several said the $1.3 trillion in tax cuts over 10 years which Bush has proposed needed to be speeded up or enlarged. 
   TD As Bush and his top economic advisor Lawrence Lindsey were having lunch with roughly two dozen CEOs from diverse industries, word was conveyed to Lindsey and then to Bush and the others that the Fed had cut the federal funds rate 50 basis points to 6.0% and the discount rate 25 basis points to 5.75%. 

 Emerging from the closed door meeting, Lindsey exclaimed, "Great! The Fed is always right." The former Fed Governor was named Chairman of Bush's Council of Economic advisors after the rate cut was announced. 

 General Electric chairman and CEO Jack Welch said that when news of the Fed rate cuts was heard, everyone in the closed door meeting "raised a glass of water to Chairman Greenspan." 

 Bush praised what he called the Fed's "bold step," which he said was "needed" to stimulate a faltering economy, but he pointed out that the business leaders had told him they think 50 basis points is "not enough stimulus." And he vowed again to press for equally "bold action" from Congress in passing the cross-the-board tax rate reductions on which he campaigned. 

 The business executives generally backed Bush to the hilt, using even more forceful language to call both for additional interest rate cuts and tax cuts, as they voiced strong concern about slowing consumer spending, high levels of consumer debt and weakening sales and production. 

 Of those participating in the high-level economic conference, only Stephen Brobeck of the Consumer Federation of America withheld judgment on Bush's tax plan, saying that some members of the association will likely support it while others may not. But he echoed others in saying he has become "more pessimistic" about the economic outlook. 

 National Federation of Independent Business President Jack Faris, on the other hand, said the small business sector in particular and the economy generally needed a tax cut "yesterday." He said slipping sales are hurting "Main Street" and threatening hiring. 

 Welch said the slowdown in consumer spending is "sharp and real" and dismissed a reporter's suggestion that talking pessimistically about the economic outlook will be a "self-fulfilling prophecy." 

 Pointing to an 18% drop in December auto sales and plans to cut auto production by one million units worldwide, Welch said, "this is real. We're not afraid of scaring people." 

 Welch praised the Fed's "aggressive action" but said it is just "a step in the right direction .... We need that plus more cuts," given the lack of inflation and spreading economic weakness. 

 Forbes magazine publisher Steve Forbes, who was a Bush rival for the Republican presidential nomination, was even more blunt regarding both interest rate and tax cuts. Regarding the former, he said "much more needs to be done .... The Fed was tight for too long." He said he would rather have seen the Fed cut rates by 300 basis points. 

 As for tax relief, Forbes said $1.3 trillion is merely "a good first down-payment." He called it "small stuff" in comparison to the $100 trillion in goods and services he projected would be produced over the life of the tax-cut plan. He said Bush should try for more tax cuts if he can get them, and he predicted that, as members of Congress "realize the storm clouds on the horizon" support for tax reduction will grow. 

 John Chambers, president and CEO of Cisco, said it has become increasingly evident in his industry that a slowdown has been gaining momentum in recent months and that the slowdown has proven "more rapid than contemplated." 

 Just as the economy grew more rapidly than most expected, it is now slowing more rapidly than expected or than has occurred in previous business cycles, Chambers said, adding that, therefore, policymakers "have to respond very, very quickly." 

 The Fed's rate cuts were "just first steps," said Chambers. 

 Gerald Parsky, a Treasury official during the Reagan-Bush years now with Aurora Capital, said he "feels strongly a tax rate cut across the board is really needed at this time." Among other reasons for a tax cut, Parsky said other nations have cut their tax rates, putting U.S. business at a competitive disadvantage. 

 Nancy Lazar, executive vice president and partner in International Strategy and Investments, predicted that the economy "will continue to be on the weak side" due to the lagged effects of past rate hikes and the energy crunch. She said the Fed rate cut was a good move but said "it will take time to work." 

 Lazar said Bush's proposed tax cuts are "perfectly timed" and will impact the economy "sooner rather than later," even though it is customarily believed that fiscal stimulus works more slowly than monetary stimulus. 

 Solomon Trujillo, former head of U.S. West and now CEO of graviton.inc., said "there really are signs of significant weakness in the economy" and consequently "a need for quick stimulus." 

 Trujillo said the Fed dealt with this weakness "in part" but said the Fed rate cut was "not the only step necessary." He suggested more monetary easing is needed and also said Congress needs to approve at least as much tax relief as Bush has proposed. He said he would prefer to "be even more aggressive" in cutting taxes. 

 Bush spokesman Dan Bartlett said Bush had also discussed energy policy with the executives and the need to increase domestic production to bring down prices. 

 Bush will hold a second day of meetings Thursday, this time with business executives from the high tech sector. 

 [TOPICS: MNSFED,MMUFE$,MGU 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | e21 : Government Finance | e211 : Government Taxation/Revenue | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpol : Domestic Politics   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   ANDocument marnew0020010713dx13004m9  



 HD TEXT - IMF'S KOEHLER STATEMENT WELCOMING FED  INTEREST RATE  CUT.    WC81 words   PD3 January 2001   ET22:32   SNMarket News International   SCMARNEW   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001. Market News International, Inc.
   LP WASHINGTON (MktNews) - The following is the text of the statement issued Wednesday by International Monetary Fund Managing Director Horst Koehler, welcoming the Federal Reserve's decision to cut interest rates: 

 "This timely adjustment of monetary policy is appropriate to help ensure a soft landing in the United States and to strengthen prospects for sustained growth in the global economy," Koehler said. 
   TD ** Market News International Washington Bureau (202) 371-2121 ** 

 [TOPICS: MGU 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States | usdc : Washington DC   ANDocument marnew0020010713dx1300483  



 HD US HOUSE SPEAKER HASTERT - 'TROUBLING SIGNS'ECONOMY IS SLOWING.    WC337 words   PD3 January 2001   ET22:17   SNMarket News International   SCMARNEW   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001. Market News International, Inc.
   LP - President-Elect Bush's Tax Cut Plan a Stimulative Antidote 

 By Claudia Hirsch 
   TD WASHINGTON (MktNews) - Sluggish U.S. economic growth calls for stimulative tax cut legislation, House Speaker Dennis Hastert told members of the new 107th Congress Wednesday. 

 In remarks presumably prepared before the surprise 50 basis point federal funds rate cut earlier Wednesday afternoon, Hastert said, "there are troubling signs that our economy is slowing down. President-elect Bush has proposed a tax relief package that will stimulate economic growth." 

 "We can work with the new president to keep our economy strong," Hastert said, citing repeal of estate and gift taxes, as well as of the so-called marriage penalty tax, as two reasonable starting points. 

 He also reiterated his pledge to reduce the nation's publicly held debt. 

 "We are on the road to pay off our public debt by the year 2013," He said. "By continuing to pay off debt, we keep our economy strong." 

 Moments earlier, the Federal Reserve announced an inter-meeting interest rate cut, putting the federal funds rate at 6.00%, down 50 bps, and the discount rate at 5.75%, down by 25 bps. 

 Bonds slumped and stocks rallied on the news, but most lawmakers were largely preoccupied by opening day ceremonies and missed the Fed's announcement. 

 Speaking to reporters just outside the House chamber during Hastert's opening remarks, Rep. Bill Thomas, a leading candidate to replace retired Rep. Bill Archer as chairman of the powerful Ways and Means Committee, said the relatively large rate cut "shows concern" on the part of the Fed. 

 Citing lower consumer confidence levels and a pronounced slowdown in the manufacturing sector, Thomas said, "all those indicators needed a little help." 

 House Majority Leader Dick Armey issued a later statement, praising the Fed for having "done its job" and calling on Congress to enact retroactive tax cuts applicable to the tax year 2001. 

 ** Market News International Washington Bureau: (202) 371-2121 ** 

 [TOPICS: MFU 
   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | e21 : Government Finance | e211 : Government Taxation/Revenue | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States | usdc : Washington DC   ANDocument marnew0020010713dx1300481  



 HD BUSH - PLEASED FED CUT RATES - NEEDED TO PROTECT VS ECON TAILSPIN.    WC394 words   PD3 January 2001   ET21:53   SNMarket News International   SCMARNEW   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001. Market News International, Inc.
   LP - Greenspan Heeded Warning Signs, Took Bold Step - Economy Still Needs Stimulus from Tax Cut Plan; Business Leaders Brought Bad News - Former Fed Gov. Lindsey to be Assistant for Economic Affairs 

 By Steven K. Beckner 
   TD AUSTIN, Texas (MktNews) - President-elect Bush said he was pleased the Federal Reserve made a strong statement Wednesday by cutting its key interest rate 50 basis points, saying Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan heeded the warning signs in the economy. 

 "I am pleased the Fed has cut the interest rates. I think the cut was needed. It was a strong statement that measures must be taken to make sure our economy does not go into a tailspin," Bush told reporters at the end of a meeting with top business leaders and economists. 

 "One of the common themes in this meeting was that in order to make sure that Americans can find work, that we've got to be mindful of the warning signs. And today Alan Greenspan was mindful of the warning signs by taking a bold step." 

 But Bush, who said he received no advance notice of the Fed's move, said interest rate cuts are not enough to spur the economy. Further "bold" measures will be required, and he called on Congress to help him pass his tax cut proposal which he said is part of an "economic recovery" plan. 

 "I say recovery because a lot of folks in this room have brought some pretty bad news, that their sales are slowing, that they are having to trim back their work force," Bush said, noting that the executives also were concerned about consumer debt levels. 

 "And there is unanimity here that we need to help spur the economy. The warning signs are real." 

 Bush also announced that former Fed governor Lawrence Lindsey would serve in the White House as assistant to the president for economic affairs, although he said it has not been decided whether he will serve as chief of both the Council of Economic Advisers and the National Economic Council. 

 While Lindsey did not comment on the Fed action at the appearance with Bush, a spokesman quoted him earlier as saying the rate cut was "great," and noting that the Fed "is always right." 

 ** Market News International Washington Bureau: (202) 371-2121 ** 

 [TOPICS: MNSFED,MMUFE$,MGU 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpol : Domestic Politics   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   ANDocument marnew0020010713dx130047x  



 HD US TREASURY WATCH - MR. O'NEILL RETURNS TO WASHINGTON-QUIETLY.    WC519 words   PD3 January 2001   ET20:01   SNMarket News International   SCMARNEW   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001. Market News International, Inc.
   LP - Treasury Secretary Designee Launches Series of Private Meetings with Lawmakers to Expedite Confirmation, Discuss Legislative Agenda - Treasury Nominee Banters Politely with Reporters About Weather, But Declines to Discuss Policy 

 By John Shaw 
   TD WASHINGTON (MktNews) - Just hours before the Federal Reserve Board announced a surprise package of interest rate reductions, Treasury secretary designee Paul O'Neill made a low-key visit to Capitol Hill Wednesday. 

 O'Neill moved briskly, quietly and mostly anonymously through Senate office buildings as he met with key senators to discuss his confirmation hearings and the legislative agenda ahead. 

 O'Neill, a small, amiable white-haired man with the cheerful demeanor of a small town pharmacist, bantered politely with reporters, but steered clear of substantive exchanges. 

 The Alcoa executive seemed inclined to chat with reporters but was encouraged by an aide from the Bush transition team to avoid responses to questions. 

 The aide implored reporters not to ask O'Neill questions, saying the Treasury nominee should make no comments until his confirmation hearings that are expected in a few weeks. 

 In an apparent attempt to satisfy the curiosity of reporters, the aide distributed a profile of O'Neill that is running in the current edition of Time magazine. 

 The Bush transition aide said that the Treasury nominee had several meetings with senators planned for Wednesday, but could not say how many lawmakers O'Neill will meet with. 

 "I think it's a nice day in Washington," O'Neill said as he left an hour-long session with incoming Senate Finance Committee Chairman Chuck Grassley. 

 About an hour earlier, reporters were invited to observe O'Neill and Grassley exchange pleasantries for about five minutes. Among other things discussed, Grassley noted that Alcoa has a major facility in Davenport, Iowa - Grassley's home state. 

 The senator also said he expected O'Neill to win a speedy Senate confirmation. 

 In comments to reporters after O'Neill left the hour-long meeting, Grassley said he urged O'Neill to introduce a tax package that includes both across-the-board rate reductions as well as other provisions that have "broad bipartisan support." 

 Grassley specifically mentioned that the bill should include reductions in the marriage penalty and estate taxes as well as pension reform provisions and a host of energy tax credits. 

 Grassley said he believes the Bush administration should move quickly on a tax cut plan given the slowing American economy, but said he has not decided if it makes more sense to move the tax package as one bill or whether it should be broken into several pieces. 

 Grassley said he and O'Neill discussed the need for both Social Security and Medicare reform. 

 Grassley said he hopes the Finance panel is able to schedule a confirmation hearing for O'Neill for the week of Jan. 15, but said this still needs to be worked out with Senate Democrats. 

 "For the good of the country I hope we have a Treasury secretary by Jan. 22," Grassley said. 

 Bush is to be inaugurated president on Jan. 20 - a Saturday. 

 [TOPICS: MFU 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | e21 : Government Finance | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States | usdc : Washington DC   ANDocument marnew0020010713dx130047j  



 HD UPDATE 1-banks, brokers shares rocket on Fed rate cut news.     BY By Greg Cresci     WC577 words   PD3 January 2001   ET21:05   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 Reuters Limited 
   LP NEW YORK, Jan 3 (Reuters) - Bank and brokerage shares rocketed in midday trading on the New York Stock Exchange on Wednesday, led by Morgan Stanley Dean Witter & Co. and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. amid a wider market surge spurred by news that the U.S. Federal Reserve cut interest rates.  

 The surprise move by the Fed to cut a key short term interest rate by a half percentage point and their signal that the Fed was prepared to cut borrowing costs further was viewed favorably by investors because lower rates reduce banks' own borrowing costs, take pressure off cash-strapped borrowers, and spur demand for new loans.  
   TD On the investment banking side, Morgan Stanley's shares were up more than 12 percent, or $9-5/16, at $81-7/16, while shares of J.P. Morgan Chase & Co Inc. were up more than 11 percent, or $4-15/16 at $48-9/16. Goldman Sachs shares were up more than 10 percent, trading at $111, a rise of $10-3/4.  

 "We're seeing buyers, short covering and buyers," Arnie Owen, a trader at Roth Capital Partners in Newport Beach, Calif., said in response to the market activity brought on by the surprise rate cut. "People are looking for an excuse to buy the financials, and we're getting it early," he said.  

 The Amex Broker Dealer Index was up nearly 10 percent or 53.75, at 592.52.  

 The move by the Fed takes the crucial fed funds overnight bank lending rate to 6 percent. It was the first half-percentage point cut in that rate since mid-1992.  

 The Fed also cut the more symbolic discount rate on Fed loans to commercial banks by a quarter percentage point to 5.75 percent. It added that it was prepared to cut that rate further to 5.5 percent if necessary.  

 The rate cut also helps banks and brokers that assist companies with new bond and stock offerings, a business that was hurt by the Fed's past rate hikes and the subsequent U.S. economic slowdown.  

 Retail banks were also trading higher, led by Citigroup Inc., which was up 6 percent, or $3-1/8 at $53-5/8. Bank of America was up nearly 5 percent at $49, a rise of $2-1/4.  

 "You would expect it to have the greatest impact on the stocks that have a business mix that's most exposed to market sensitive businesses, especially fixed income and equity underwriting," said Guy Moszkowski, an analyst at Solomon Smith Barney in New York.  

 "Historically, the financial sector has responded extremely positively to Fed easing and there's no reason why today should be any different," he said.  

 The Dow Jones Industrial Average was up about 2 percent at 10,863.41 in early afternoon trade.  

 "There is a knee-jerk optimism when rates go down. Also, the drop in rates ahead of the end of month rate meeting signals to banks that lending is OK," said Robert Albertson, a former bank analyst who now runs his own investment fund called Pilot Financial.  

 "The brokers are even more sensitive to rates in the short-term, to the extent that underwriting had dried up and we were in a very dead space. This clears the air for a whole matter of business to come back," Albertson said.  
   COgldmns : The Goldman Sachs Group Incorporated | cnyc : JPMorgan Chase & Co.   INi814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | i831 : Financial Investments | i83101 : Investment Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | iinv : Investing/Securities   NSc17 : Funding/Capital | c171 : Share Capital | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   ANDocument lba0000020010713dx1305sho  



 HDSurprise Fed move to halt slide in US economy.   BYBy GERARD BAKER IN WASHINGTON.    WC656 words   PD3 January 2001   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPThe US Federal Reserve moved with unusual urgency on Wednesday to halt the slide in the American economy with a surprise half-point cut in its key interest rate and a promise that there could be more to follow.

For the first time since the world economy hit the depths of the Asian financial crisis in the autumn of 1998, the US central bank reduced short-term interest rates between regularly scheduled meetings of its policy-making open market committee.
   TDBut in acknowledgement of the unexpected severity of the economic conditions the US now faces, the rate cut this time was twice the quarter-point reduction it authorised then.

Explaining its decision to cut its target for the fed funds rate by 50 basis points to 6 per cent, the Fed's policy-making open-market committee said there was growing evidence of a broad-based economic slowdown.

"These actions were taken in light of further weakening of sales and production, and in the context of lower consumer confidence, tight conditions in some segments of financial markets, and high energy prices sapping household and business purchasing power," it said.

Inflation pressures remained "contained", it said, and there was little evidence to suggest longer-term advances in technology and associated gains in productivity were abating.

Hinting that further interest rate cuts could be on the way, perhaps as early as the next scheduled FOMC meeting on January 30 and 31, it said the balance of economic risks in the immediate future were still weighted towards a weakening in conditions rather than growing inflationary pressures.

The decision to cut interest rates was taken during a speedily arranged 11am conference call. It was accompanied by a decision by the Fed's board of governors to cut its largely symbolic discount rate by a quarter of a percentage point to 5.5 per cent.

The moves followed accumulating evidence in recent days that the US had, in the space of just a few months, plunged from rapid rates of growth in the middle of last year - of more than 5 per cent at an annualized rate - to a slowdown that has brought it perilously close to its first recession in 10 years. Figures published on Monday showed US manufacturing activity last month at its weakest since the country emerged from the recession of 1990-91. Most economists estimate growth slowed to a rate of about 2.5 per cent in the last three months of 2000, and believe it could be on course for much slower - or even negative - growth in the first quarter of 2001.

Though the Fed had been expected to cut rates this month, markets were surprised by the timing and scale of the move. Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman, hinted at a fundamental change in the Fed's thinking about economic risks in a speech a month ago. On December 19, at the last scheduled FOMC meeting the central bank left interest rates unchanged, although it shifted its assessment of economic risks facing the economy as weighted towards a slowdown rather than inflation.

Speculation about a possible rate cut before the next scheduled FOMC meeting at the end of the month intensified over the Christmas and new year period, with more evidence of economic weakness. Rumours circulated in financial markets on Wednesday before the Fed's move that it would act tomorrow after the publication of the important employment report for December. Given the growing speculation, the Fed may have acted on Wednesday to heighten the element of surprise, and, therefore, the effectiveness of its move.

Analysts were agreed that the decision emphasized the concerns the Fed now has that a recession is a real possibility. "Yet again, Greenspan shows his determination to avoid recession on his watch," said Ian Shepherdson, chief economist at High Frequency Economics, a New York economic consultancy. 
   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gdip : International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics   REnam :  | namz : North America | usa : United States   IPCInterest Rates | Government News | Economic News | Summits &Talks | Economic Indicators | Federal Reserve USA | United States of America | Americas | Pacific Rim | North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument ftcom00020010715dx13008o9  



 HD Interest rate  cut boosts Bush's stance on tax.   BYBy RICHARD WOLFFE AND GERARD BAKER IN WASHINGTON.    WC586 words   PD3 January 2001   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPThe Federal Reserve's surprise decision to cut interest rates by half a percentage point on Wednesday followed mounting evidence that the US economy faces the greatest risk of a recession since it began the longest expansion in the country's history 10 years ago.

It came against the intriguing political background of growing acknowledgement of the need for emergency action to rescue the deteriorating economy.
   TDPresident-elect George W Bush has been accused by Democrats of "talking down the economy" to justify his plan for a tax cut.

But with the Fed's move on Wednesday and its strong warning that the economy faces serious risks of a downturn, the case for tax cuts to accompany easier monetary policy has gained more supporters.

With just over two weeks to go until he moves into the White House, Mr Bush continued to promote his plans for a hefty tax cut with senior economic advisers and leading business figures on the first day of a two-day summit meeting in Austin to discuss the economy.

Mr Bush's discussions were mainly with business executives who have been enthusiastic political and financial supporters of his presidential campaign. They include Ken Lay, chairman and CEO of Enron, the energy giant, and Floyd Kvamme, the high-tech venture capitalist from Kleiner Perkins Caufield Byers.

His advisers were quick to point to further evidence of worsening economic conditions as further justification for his proposals.

Speaking before the Fed's surprise move, Ari Fleischer, Mr Bush's spokesman, said Tuesday's report by the National Association of Purchasing Management that showed a steep decline in manufacturing activity last month had reinforced Mr Bush's concerns about the weakening economy.

"The report that came out yesterday indicated that the economy is performing at its worst pace since the recession in 1991," he told reporters. "So there is plenty of new evidence to buttress President-elect Bush's statements, and the statements issued in the private sector, about the weakening in the economy, the troubles that we're inheriting."

As the Austin summit continued, Mr Bush's nominee for Treasury secretary, Paul O'Neill, met congressional leaders on Capitol Hill on the first day of the 107th Congress.

Though Mr O'Neill had no comment on his talks, signs emerged that lawmakers from both parties might agree to a quick tax-cutting package to help stimulate the economy.

Richard Gephardt, the Democratic leader in the House of Representatives, said he believed it was possible to reach a bipartisan agreement on the scale of the tax cuts. But he insisted they should be directed away from high-tax payers, suggesting he remained opposed to the repeal of the estate tax, which plays a central role in Mr Bush's tax-cutting agenda.

Mr Gephardt said on Wednesday that the tax cut might need "to get bigger because a recession is looming and we've got economic worries out there". "We do need a tax cut. We're going to fight over the complexion of it," he told NBC television.

Charles Grassley, the Republican senator who is expected to head the Senate finance committee, said chances for a tax cut were growing. "[Provided evidence of a downturn rises] then prudence might dictate that we would have an across-the-board tax cut to have a soft landing for the economy," he said after his meeting with Mr O'Neill. 
   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnam :  | namz : North America | usa : United States   IPCInterest Rates | Economic News | Economic Indicators | Federal Reserve USA | United States of America | Americas | Pacific Rim | North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument ftcom00020010715dx13008o4  



 HD US CREDIT WEEK AHEAD - CLOCK TICKS AS PLAYERS WAIT ON JAN FOMC.    BY By Ellen Taylor and Alyce Andres    WC942 words   PD2 January 2001   ET13:16   SNMarket News International   SCMARNEW   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001. Market News International, Inc.
   LP NEW YORK (MktNews) - 2001 dawns bright and early next week - and not a minute too soon for the credit markets, which will be marking time until the last day of January to see if the Federal Reserve gives it a 1/4 or 1/2 percentage point interest-rate cut. 

 As a result, the main preoccupation next week will be the December jobs report, due out early on Friday, to see if labor market weakness has become troubling enough to nudge the Fed to slash rates by the larger option of 50 basis points. 
   TD Or even come in sooner than month end with an intrameeting ease. A belated Christmas gift? The financial markets surely hope so. 

 Next week also brings a spate of secondary economic data, but none will pack the punch of the employment report, although the National Purchasing Managers index could come close on Tuesday. 

 Also on the docket are November factory orders and construction spending; December Challenger layoffs; and new home sales for November; as well as car and truck sales in December. 

 "Given how important the employment data always is relative to the rest of the economic calendar, the market will be loathe to do anything ahead of Friday," said John Canavan, an economist at Stone & McCarthy Research Associates in Princeton, N.J. 

 And it's a shortened week for the markets since stock and bond markets will be closed on Monday for New Year's Day. 

 "People will look to get a fresh start on Tuesday," if they come in at all after the long holiday weekend, Canavan said. 

 Nonfarm payrolls are expected to climb by 110,000 after increasing by 94,000 in November. Average hourly earnings will likely come in at the usual +0.3% to +0.4% but the unemployment rate is seen rising to 4.1% due to growing signs of economic sluggishness. 

 Morgan Stanley Dean Witter senior vice president William Sullivan said you can't discount enough how strong an impact the early winter's severe storms in much of the U.S. will have on many different economic reports next month. 

 "There is a real risk the extremely inclement weather in much of the United States since Thanksgiving will add an adverse influence on many of the economic series, including jobs creation, hours worked, home building, manufacturing output, and even retail sales. People in much of the country just haven't been able to get out of their houses," he pointed out. 

 "This will begin to (negatively) impact the data we see in January" as well as play a big role in how much the Fed eases at month's end, Sullivan said. 

 Of more import than the second-tier data next week will be Thursday's speeches by New York Fed President William McDonough and to a lesser extent by non-voter San Francisco President Robert Parry, which will be closely monitored by market makers for clues as to any growing consensus within policymakers that the U.S. economy needs a stronger dose of medicine by month's end, strategists said. 

 "The public appearances by Fed officials will be designed to set the markets up for what they will do on January 31," and how seriously damaging policymakers perceive fresh economic data to be, Sullivan said. 

 "And remember that many of the most hawkish members on the board will not be voting members in 2001," including Cleveland's Jerry Jordan, Richmond's Alfred Broaddus and Parry, he pointed out. 

 Lawrence Malato, a federal funds futures trader said many dealers have been sellers of March and February fed funds, which may indicate that some players are beginning to think the Fed might not be aggressive as originally thought. 

 According to Friday morning's prices, there is still a 20% chance of an intermeeting ease being announced by the Fed, Malato said. However, looking at February fed funds there is a solid 100% chance of a quarter-point ease at the January 30/31 Fed meeting and a 75% chance of a 50-basis-point ease seen at that time, Malato said. 

 However, by the end of the first quarter, there is a 100% chance of 50 basis points of easing seen and nearly 84% probability of a total 75-basis-points in rate reductions to a 5.75% funds rate, Malato said. 

 But, traders said if the Tuesday national manufacturing data offers confirmation of Friday's Chicago data, which showed signs of stabilization, the chances of a 50-basis-point ease in January "is out of the question," one floor trader said. 

 However, Morgan Stanley Dean Witter's Sullivan stressed that the Fed has never before moved to an easing policy preference as it did at last week's Dec. 19 FOMC meeting, while it oftentimes puts forth a greater inclination to tighten in its policy statement to reinforce its historic role as inflation fighter. 

 "That is a powerful shift" in its view of the economy and its policy, Sullivan concluded, "and the cushion for error on the downside will be limited" going forward. 

 Also a key factor will be movements in equity markets in January as a major determinant in how aggressively the Fed decides to act on Jan. 31, Sullivan said. 

 "If we see a rebound in stocks and the 'wealth effect' kicks in again, they might only go 25 basis points. But if stocks slump further, that would mandate a 50-basis-point ease," he said. Email: etaylor@marketnews.com. 

 *** MARKET NEWS INTERNATIONAL *** 212 509 9270. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   ANDocument marnew0020010713dx120043d  
 Page 1 of 1      2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.


 

 Page 1      2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.

