 


 HDUS bonds rise on hints of further economic decay.   BYBy JENNY WIGGINS IN NEW YORK.     WC341 words   PD3 October 2001   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2001 The Financial Times Ltd. All rights reserved. Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the web.  
   LPUS government securities continued to push higher across the curve yesterday as fears of ongoing economic deterioration gave rise to expectations of yet more interest rate cuts.

The Federal Reserve, after cutting the federal funds rate by 50 basis points to 2.50 per cent on Tuesday, indicated more easing is likely. On Wednesday the market had already priced in another 25bp cut at the Open Market Committee's next meeting in November, traders said.
   TDThe two-year note, whch is most sensitive to changes in interest rates, was up 3/32 to 100 1/16 at midday, yielding an historically low 2.713 per cent.

The market also ignored better-than-expected business activity data from the National Association of Purchasing Managers. The non-manufacturing NAPM survey rose to 50.2 in September from 45.5 in August.

Traders said the figures were not an accurate reflection of the post-September 11 period. "The figures are fairly irrelevant right now," said Drew Forbes of Daiwa Securities. "We're not going to get clean numbers for one or two months."

Signs that additional fiscal spending to fund the recovery effort following the terrorist attacks will remain below $100bn helped the long end of the curve move higher amid relief inflation will be kept in check. The Treasury Secretary, Paul O'Neill, said on Wednesday morning that spending next year should be in the range of $60bn to $75bn. Lower commodity prices have also helped rein in inflation fears.

The 30-year bond was up 13/16 to 101 l at midday, yielding 5.273 per cent, while the 10-year note had risen 17/32 to 104 13/32 with a yield of 4.443 per cent.

The ongoing fall in 10-year interest rates, has helped push down mortagage rates, encouraging more homeowners to refinance. The Mortgage Bankers Association said on Wednesday that its weekly refinance index had reached its highest levels since October 1998. 
   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | effund : Federal Funds Rate | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTCOM00020051017dxa300884  



 HD Economists in Asia Don't Expect Boon From U.S. Rate Cut --- Rebound in Exports, They Say, Is Needed to Spur Recovery    BY By Jason Booth    CRStaff Reporter   WC566 words   PD3 October 2001   SNThe Asian Wall Street Journal   SCAWSJ   PGM1   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
   LP HONG KONG -- Asian markets were expected to open today to news of another U.S. interest-rate cut, but their applause may be muted. 

 Market watchers Tuesday were forecasting a cut by the U.S. Federal Reserve of one-half percentage point, to the lowest level in nearly 40 years. 
   TD While such a steep cut in the cost of capital is usually welcome, Asian economists and strategists doubted any Fed move would mark the start of a sustainable recovery in either Asian stocks or economic growth. It will take a rebound in exports in order to do that. 

 "It's a question of liquidity vs. fundamentals," said Bill Belchere, managing director of Asian economics and fixed-income strategy at Merrill Lynch in Singapore. "The liquidity may put a bottom under the economy, but consumer sentiment and investment are driven by exports." 

 Ambivalence toward an interest-rate cut was reflected in Asia's financial markets Tuesday. Stock markets in Japan, Australia, Singapore and Thailand ended moderately higher. Yet stocks in Taiwan lost almost 4% amid selling of technology stocks following similar losses in New York. Markets in Hong Kong, South Korea and China were closed for national holidays. 

 Indonesian and Philippine stocks fell amid concern over U.S. military retaliation for last month's terrorist attacks in New York and Washington. Both nations are themselves grappling with Muslim separatist groups, which could react violently to an attack on Afghanistan. 

 Lower U.S. interest rates probably would cause a handful of the region's economies to follow suit. Korea, Taiwan, Singapore and Australia were seen as likely to lower rates. Hong Kong also would cut its interest rates as the Hong Kong currency is pegged to the U.S. dollar. 

 That probability helped interest-rate sensitive stocks such as banks and property companies do well across the region, and further gains by these issues could come in the event of a sizable interest-rate reduction. 

 Yet interest rates in Asia are already near record lows and lending remains subdued. In Hong Kong, for example, total loans and advances contracted 0.3% in August, continuing a year-long trend. Instead, the depressed economic environment, compounded by worries about expected U.S. military action, will likely push the added liquidity into Asian bond markets. 

 The bigger question, meanwhile, is whether cheap money will slow the investment by Asians into U.S. Treasury bonds. The yen has strengthened substantially against the dollar since the Sept. 11 attacks. That trend may be related to Japanese companies and institutional investors repatriating capital as they close their books at the end of Japan's fiscal second half. Yet if the lower rates plus U.S. military action prolong the capital outflow from America, it could lead to financial difficulties in the U.S., which has long depended on foreign investors to finance the huge current-account gap in the U.S. 

 "We already see that capital flows to the U.S. are much smaller and may not be enough to finance the U.S. current-account deficit," said David Simmonds, an economist at Citibank. 

 Should money going into U.S. Treasurys dry up, interest rates could rise, and that in turn could further punish the stock market. 
   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSc31 : Marketing | c312 : External Markets | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REasia :  | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia | china : China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | easiaz : Eastern Asia | indon : Indonesia | jap : Japan | namz : North America | phlns : Philippines | seasiaz : Southeast Asia | singp : Singapore | skorea : South Korea | taiwan : Taiwan | thail : Thailand | usa : United States   ANDocument awsj000020011002dxa30001d  



 HD Reaction mixed to drop in  interest rate  by  Federal Reserve    WC388 words   PD3 October 2001   ET20:50   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.
   LP HATTIESBURG, Miss. (AP) - The Federal Reserve's half-point interest rate cut may spur consumer spending but is unlikely to attract passengers back to airlines, a Hattiesburg banker says. 

 David Johnson, chief executive officer of The First National Bank of South Mississippi, serves on the New Orleans Federal Reserve Bank board. 
   TD The Federal Reserve cut the interest rate banks charge each other on overnight loans to 2.5 percent Tuesday, prompting most major commercial banks to drop their prime lending rates to 5.5 percent. 

 "This is to inspire confidence in the economy, to let people know that the Fed is active in participating," Johnson said. "Just as relevant, it is to encourage people to borrow, to make transactions more economically feasible. Any kind of venture is more likely to work if your interest rate is lower." 

 The cut in the prime lending rate means consumers will pay less for home mortgages, car loans and credit card purchases. 

 "It's probably not going to be a great impact but it will be a positive impact," said Ken Broom, president of the Hattiesburg Association of Realtors. "It's going to help us remain stable, which is what they're shooting for." 

 The Sept. 11 terrorist attacks prompted some fear that consumers would opt out of normal spending patterns. 

 "If consumers take advantage of cheaper credit, the trend could be reversed. If people are buying cars, are buying washing machines, people have to employ folks to make those things," Johnson said. "If lowering a rate causes somebody to go buy a house, its going to help the furniture business, the lumber business, the appliance people, the cement people. It just goes on and on." 

 Johnson said lowering the credit card interest probably will not attract people back to the airline ticket counters. 

 "If you walk in and feel threatened, the ticket is not going to be cheap enough to get on that airplane," Johnson said. 

 University of Southern Mississippi marketing professor Tony Henthorne said bargain tickets could bring in fliers. 

 "If it's cheaper, it's going to overcome some of that but there's still going to be fear to fly," he said. "But I think that's the only way to get people back in the air." 
   RFRush   INi75 : Airlines | i7505 : Airline Ticketing/Reservations   NSccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gcon : Consumer Affairs | gcrim : Crime/Courts | gterr : Acts of Terror   REnamz : North America | usa : United States | usms : Mississippi | uss : Southern U.S.   IPCsldm5981 | selmsms- | tagmsdsm   IPDState and Regional | AP State Wires: Mississippi | BC-MS--Fed-Mspi Reax BC-MS--Fed-Mspi Reax | c531fe1b20ac7b717a4bfa4aa2c22190   ANDocument aprs000020011003dxa300txv  



 HD UPDATE 1-Welteke says ECB to review Fed cut next week.    BY By Jonathan Gould    WC875 words   PD3 October 2001   ET14:00   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 Reuters Limited
   LP FRANKFURT, Oct 3 (Reuters) - Bundesbank President Ernst Welteke has played down the prospects for the European Central Bank reacting immediately to Tuesday's half point interest rate cut by the U.S. Federal Reserve. 

 But in remarks made late on Tuesday but embargoed until Wednesday, he left open the possibility of further cuts given growth and inflation prospects. 
   TD "It's back to normality for ECB policy," Welteke told financial journalists. 

 He said the ECB would review the Fed's latest cut along with other fresh economic indicators when its policy-making council meets next on October 11. 

 "We'll talk about it (Tuesday's Fed cut) next week. Also, it's a matter of whether we have new economic data," he said. 

 The ECB slashed rates half a point to 3.75 percent on September 17 in concert with the Federal Reserve in a move to shore up confidence following the attacks in the United States. 

 Welteke said that psychological reasons were more important than economic ones in that decision. "Think what would have happened if the ECB hadn't cut rates with the Fed," he said. 

 The comment echoed a remark by ECB Chief Economist Otmar Issing on Tuesday that the ECB had "reacted to an exceptional situation with an exceptional answer" in its inter-meeting cut. 

 Both Welteke and Issing said the September 17 cut did not mark a change in ECB strategy. 

 The Fed followed up its September 17 move with a further half-point cut on Tuesday, bringing the key federal funds rate to 2.5 percent, its lowest level in nearly 40 years. 

 ECB TO REVIEW FED CUT, NEW DATA 

 The Bundesbank chief said the attacks on New York and Washington last month had greatly increased uncertainty among economic actors and the general public, but even before the attacks, the slowdown in U.S. and euro zone growth and considerable difficulties in Japan had been evident. 

 "Growth developments this year have become even worse after the attacks," he said, adding it was too early to come to a final judgement about their impact. 

 The United States was likely to see a contraction in the third quarter and probably also in the fourth, which would meet the technical definition of a recession, he said. 

 The euro was broadly stable at around $0.9220 following the release of Welteke's remarks and the Reuters euro zone business activity index showing a contraction in the service sector in September. 

 GROWTH IMPROVING BUT BELOW POTENTIAL 

 Welteke said long-term prospects for the euro zone remain solid but the economy would still be weighed down by the world economic slowdown. 

 "Growth in 2002 will be higher than in 2001 but possibly not reach potential," he said. The ECB has estimated the euro zone's long-term non-inflation growth rate at 2-2.5 percent. 

 Welteke referred to the International Monetary Fund's 2001 growth forecast of 1.8 percent for the euro zone and 0.8 percent for Germany. "We would be lucky if we would reach 0.8 percent," he said. 

 Germany's quarter-on-quarter growth in the third quarter would probably be "not much more than zero," after zero growth in the second quarter and 0.4 percent growth in the first, he added. 

 Still, Germany did not face a recession, despite reduced growth rates, he said. 

 Ken Wattret, an analyst at BNP Paribas in London, said Welteke had painted a gloomy picture of the German economy and added that the chances for a rate cut by the ECB at its next meeting on October 11 were significant. 

 "I must admit I'm sceptical about the likelihood of a 50 basis point move from the ECB, but the probability of a drip-feed of interest rate cuts has increased based on the services PMI," Wattret said. 

 INFLATION 

 Welteke said annual inflation rates may rise in the short term after having been on a falling trend since May. 

 Germany, which saw its year-on-year inflation rate slip to 2.1 percent in September from 2.6 percent in August, might see inflation pick up again in October because of a statistical base effect, he said. 

 "The statistical effect is the same for the euro zone," he added. 

 Aside from the short-term statistical effect, inflation would also be boosted by rising taxes and official fees that take effect in January in Germany, which could add 0.3-0.4 percentage point to year-on-year inflation rates. Oil prices remained a wild card. 

 The longer-term inflation trend was still down but it was unlikely to reach a level where there were deflation worries. 

 "Long term, I share the view that inflation will be under two percent in the euro zone. But on the other hand, I wouldn't say there was a danger in the other direction (towards deflation)," Welteke said. 

 "If there were such a (deflation) danger, the ECB would act, of course," he added. 

 Welteke played down suggestions that financial leaders could strike an agreement to rebalance exchange rates at next weekend's meeting of financial officials in Washington. 

 (Additional reporting by James Mackenzie). 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | ecbnk : European Central Bank | eec : European Union | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations   REeurz : Europe | gfr : Germany | namz : North America | usa : United States | weurz : Western Europe   ANDocument lba0000020011003dxa304oob  



 HD Thailand says too early to assess Fed rate cuts.    WC107 words   PD3 October 2001   ET05:50   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 Reuters Limited
   LP BANGKOK, Oct 3 (Reuters) - Thai Finance Minister Somkid Jatusripitak said on Wednesday it was too early for Thailand to gauge the impact of the latest interest rate cut by the U.S. Federal Reserve. 

 Asked about the impact of the Fed rate cut, Somkid told reporters: "It's not that fast. Don't jump to any conclusion. The Fed rate cuts are for stimulating the U.S. economy. For us, we and the (Bank of Thailand) governor are monitoring the situation." 
   TD The Fed cut the federal funds rate by 50 basis points to 2.5 percent on Tuesday. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gdip : International Relations   REasiaz : Asia | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | namz : North America | seasiaz : Southeast Asia | thail : Thailand | usa : United States   ANDocument lba0000020011003dxa301zrg  



 HD Fed cuts rates half-point, ready to do more.    BY By Glenn Somerville    WC1,050 words   PD3 October 2001   ET04:05   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 Reuters Limited
   LP WASHINGTON, Oct 2 (Reuters) - The Federal Reserve on Tuesday slashed a key short-term interest rate by a half-percentage point to the lowest level in nearly 40 years and said it was poised to act again as it tries to avert a U.S. recession in the aftermath of the Sept. 11 attacks. 

 The policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee cut the federal funds rate governing overnight interbank loans to 2.5 percent, its ninth cut this year and the second in just over two weeks, bringing the rate to its lowest level since May 1962, during the Kennedy administration. 
   TD The more symbolic discount rate, which applies to emergency Fed loans to banks, dropped a matching amount to 2.0 percent. 

 In a statement explaining the move, the Fed said the devastating attacks on New York and Washington, which left nearly 6,000 dead or missing, "significantly heightened uncertainty" in the already weakened U.S. economy. 

 Financial markets were heartened by the Fed action, which accorded with Wall Street expectations. 

 The Dow Jones industrial average added 113.76 points, or 1.29 percent, to close at 8,950.59 while the high tech-laden Nasdaq composite index closed ahead 11.87 points at 1,492.33. 

 Prices for U.S. Treasury bonds also climbed. 

 The Fed move highlighted the severity of the risk the world's largest economy now runs of falling into its first recession - defined as two quarters of economic contraction - since the downturn of mid-1990 to March 1991. 

 BLOOM OFF THE ROSE 

 The record expansion since then has created tens of millions of jobs and added to American prosperity, and the Fed on Tuesday tried to offer shaken consumers some reassurance about the future in its statement. 

 "Nonetheless, the long-term prospects for productivity growth and the economy remain favorable and should become evident once the unusual forces restraining demand abate," the Fed said in its statement explaining the rate decision. 

 After the cut, the fed funds rate is below the 2.7 percent annual rate of increase in a widely used indicator of consumer prices recorded in August, meaning that the cost of money is cheaper than one measure of inflation. 

 However, this is somewhat deceiving since analysts note that Fed policymakers favor a different inflation gauge - the personal consumption expenditures index in the quarterly gross domestic product report - which suggests so-called real interest rates are actually some distance from zero. The PCE price index rose at a 1.3 percent rate in the second quarter. 

 Business leaders welcomed the cut in borrowing costs. 

 "While the full effects won't be felt for months, today's action will lower debt burdens and increase the purchasing power of the American consumer (and) that, in turn, should give a needed boost to consumer spending," said Jerry Jasinowski, president of the National Association of Manufacturers. 

 PRIMING THE PUMP 

 The latest Fed bid to prime the economic pump comes days before next Saturday's gathering in Washington of finance ministers from the Group of Seven industrial nations - a meeting likely to be dominated by concern a faltering U.S. expansion could drag the global economy into recession. 

 "The plight of the U.S. economy is being felt worldwide," said economist Kurt Karl of New York-based reinsurer Swiss Re. He added that central banks in Canada, Britain and Europe were likely to follow the Fed's action. 

 Earlier on Tuesday, White House Economic Adviser Glenn Hubbard told the Senate Banking Committee the attacks "increase significantly the likelihood that the economy is in a recession." 

 The U.S. central bank has now cut the fed funds rate by 4 full percentage points since the start of the year - one of its most aggressive rate-cutting campaigns in history - but analysts say it still has ample room to keep trimming rates. 

 "It has not been unusual for the 'real' fed funds rate (the nominal rate excluding inflation as measured by the PCE) to be to zero or less in the wake of prior recessions," said economist David Orr of First Union Corp. in Charlotte, N.C.. 

 While the Fed has moved swiftly to ease monetary policy, the Bush administration and Congress still are struggling to come up with a fiscal stimulus package to spur activity. 

 President Bush said after meeting congressional leaders on Tuesday that any measures should be "big enough to get the economy moving in the short run but small enough so that it doesn't affect long-term interest rates." 

 A package worth up $100 billion, including roughly $50 billion in emergency spending already approved, has been discussed, congressional aides said, so that would leave $45 billion to $50 billion for new tax cuts and added spending. 

 Major banks began reducing prime lending rates - charged to their most credit-worthy corporate borrowers - within minutes of the Fed announcement, dropping them to 5.5 percent from 6 percent, an inducement for businesses to borrow. 

 The world's top economy was shaky before the attacks and analysts say the assaults ensured at least a short recession by sapping consumer and business confidence, key since consumer spending drives two-thirds of U.S. economic activity. 

 In its statement, the Fed said the economy still faces a greater risk of weakness than of inflation, a signal that the central bank stood ready to cut rates further. 

 Wall Street economists had widely expected the Fed to make a cut of this magnitude. In a Reuters survey of firms that deal directly with the Fed in the government debt market, 21 of 25 had anticipated a half-percentage point cut. 

 The Fed has moved forcefully since the Sept. 11 attacks to try to cushion the blow to consumer and business confidence and to keep an ample supply of liquidity in the economy. 

 The U.S. central bank cut the federal funds rate a half percentage point on Sept. 17, between regular meetings - a move joined by the United States' key trading partners. 

 And the Fed joined with central banks around the world to pump tens of billions of dollars into the banking system after the attacks to ensure that businesses and consumers would not encounter problems in settling business transactions. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States | usdc : Washington DC | uss : Southern U.S.   ANDocument lba0000020011003dxa3012lc  



 HD Toward Zero: As Fed Cuts Rates Yet Again, Its Powers Seem to Be Limited --- Nation's Shaky Confidence Resists Monetary Cure; Japan's Spooky Example --- Auto Sales Offer Some Hope    BY By Greg Ip and Greg White    CRStaff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal   WC2,855 words   PD3 October 2001   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGA1   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 2001, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)
   LP The Federal Reserve, delivering the lowest short-term rates since John F. Kennedy was president, is pursuing its most aggressive campaign in recent history to stimulate the economy. But it's a campaign whose goal seems more elusive with each passing day. 

 Yesterday, the Fed cut the target for its benchmark federal-funds interest rate to 2.5% from 3%, and left the door open to further rate cuts. "The terrorist attacks have significantly heightened uncertainty in an economy that was already weak," the Fed said in a statement explaining its action. 
   TD Though the Fed's move was widely anticipated, investors reacted positively. The Dow Jones Industrial Average jumped 113.76 points, 1.29%, to 8950.59. 

 Including its emergency rate cut just before the nation's stock markets reopened on Sept. 17, the Fed has chopped U.S. rates a full percentage point since Sept. 11, and by a whopping four percentage points since the start of the year. 

 But lower interest rates work only if they induce consumers and businesses to borrow -- and then spend -- more. And since the Fed began cutting rates, the growth in business borrowing has ground to a halt, and consumer-credit growth has slowed sharply. Only home mortgage lending is still growing at a healthy pace, and even that has taken a hit in the wake of the terrorist attack. 

 All this raises a troubling question: Are the headwinds facing the economy so great that no interest rate, even one approaching zero, can turn things around? 

 "The fear is that people are sufficiently spooked by the uncertainty sparked by the terrorist attacks, that they don't want to spend," says Gregory Mankiw, a Harvard University economist who specializes in monetary policy. "Lower rates are certainly a good thing -- the question is will they encourage enough spending to pull us out of what looks like a recession?" 

 For months, Mark Messer, an engineering technician in St. Augustine, Fla., had been scouting for property on which to build a new home to replace the two-bedroom apartment in which he, his wife and their daughter live. With mortgage rates inching lower, financing hasn't been an issue. But because Mr. Messer's employer is a subcontractor for aircraft maker Boeing Co. -- which has announced sharp cutbacks amid the slump in air travel -- Mr. Messer is worried about his job. 

 "I'm not even buying a new TV, in case I do lose my job," he says. "Interest rates could go down to 1%, and it still wouldn't make me apply for a loan," he adds. 

 The chief executive of Milacron Inc., a maker of plastic molding equipment, plastic parts and metal tools, says much the same thing. His Cincinnati, Ohio, company is renegotiating its bank credit line and expects to pay a lower interest rate, thanks to the Fed. But that isn't going to prompt the company to borrow for expansion. "Because of the concern about the length of the downturn, we just do not want any additional debt," says CEO Ron Brown. The cost of borrowing, he says, isn't the issue. 

 Like many others in the hard-hit manufacturing sector, Milacron is a long way from needing to expand. "We have plenty of capacity, and it's going to take some time to get full use of that capacity," Mr. Brown says. 

 With demand down, the company, which decided in July to shutter five to seven plants during the second half, last week expanded the planned shutdowns to 12 small plants world-wide. It also said it now plans to lay off 800 employees, up from a previously planned 575, from its current work force of about 10,000. Mr. Brown says he won't even consider expansion until he sees a pick up in overall demand, and he doesn't anticipate a rebound in most sales until the first half of next year or in capital-equipment sales until the second half of 2002. 

 The effectiveness of monetary policy comes into question almost every time the economy turns down, most recently during the sluggish recovery from the nation's 1990-91 recession. Yet in each downturn since World War II, lower interest rates, sooner or later, have revived the economy. And, just yesterday, there were heartening signs that the appeal of zero-interest-rate loans is luring hesitant consumers back into auto dealers' showrooms. 

 There are reasons to fear the Fed will have a harder time now. Last month's terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center and Pentagon were an event for which there is no historic or economic precedent. By comparison, the 1990 Iraqi invasion of Kuwait, which coincided with a recession and credit crunch in the U.S., was a far milder shock to the country. 

 Nearly all the drags on the American economy before Sept. 11 -- mounting unemployment, falling stock prices, unused industrial capacity, a bandwidth glut, stubbornly high long-term interest rates, weakening economies abroad and, most of all, eroding confidence in the future -- were intensified by the terrorist attacks. 

 Eroding confidence is the factor that poses the biggest challenge to the standard remedies in the Fed's cupboard. National confidence turns not on interest rates but on things over which the central bank has no control: the public fear of another terrorist attack, the pictures on TV news, the ability of the president to calm the nation's anxiety, the capacity of the U.S. military to disable the terrorist network. 

 And then there is the unsettling example of Japan, the first major economy since the Great Depression to struggle with deflation and persistently weak demand that so far has been stubbornly resistant to both government spending and lower interest rates. Since the end of 1990, Japan's central bank has lowered its discount rate to the current 0.1% from 6%. 

 Most mainstream economists think lower interest rates and the tens of billions of dollars in the economic-stimulus program now in the works will turn the economy around. Many of them are predicting a rebound early in 2002. Monetary policy hasn't lost its potency, they insist. Push interest rates low enough, and people respond. 

 That's what auto makers are expecting. A week after the attacks, General Motors Corp., under pressure from its dealers and concerned that pessimism about the economic outlook would become a self-fulfilling prophecy, announced a zero-interest-rate financing offer covering its entire lineup of new cars and trucks. The promotion was backed up by a national ad campaign with the slogan, "Keep America Rolling." 

 "It's costing us more money, but we think it's a good trade-off," says GM Chief Executive Rick Wagoner, who has been very vocal in the weeks since Sept. 11 about the need to stimulate demand in order to keep the terrorist attacks from pushing the economy into a deep downturn. He credits the Fed's rate cuts with helping make the offer possible. For GM, "zero-percent financing costs less in today's environment," he says. 

 The move, aided by President Bush's call to return to "business as usual," seems to be paying off. Within days, rivals matched GM's offer. Dealers say showroom traffic increased. Particularly outside the terror-shaken Northeast, sales are moving back toward pre-attack levels. "On Sept. 11, it was like somebody turned off a light switch, but it's been turned back on with the 0% financing," said Jesse Pridgen, a truck salesman at Capital Ford Inc. in Raleigh, N.C. Thanks to the appeal of no-interest loans, the dealership's September sales are about what they were last year. 

 Alan Rosen, chief executive of Continuum Chemical Corp., a Houston industrial-services company, bought two Ford pickups -- a $27,000 F-150 and a $29,000 F-350 -- for his business. "It was a deal you couldn't pass up because you're using Ford's money to finance your future," he says. He figures he saved between $7,000 and $9,000 in financing costs. 

 Big auto makers said yesterday that sales in September held up much better than most in the industry and on Wall Street expected. GM's sales were only 2.9% below last September's levels. Ford says sales to consumers -- that is, excluding fleet and commercial sales -- were down just 2% or 3%, with the exception of the New York City area. And German auto maker Bayerische Motoren Werke AG's September sales in the U.S. set a record, although the 8.7% increase over last year was smaller than in any month this year. 

 Fed officials remain confident that monetary policy retains its power to get the economy growing. In congressional testimony in July, Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan said, "You essentially get very complex differences in the way monetary policy plays out, but at the end of the day, it does seem to be effective." 

 There is talk, both inside the Fed and among the analysts who track the Fed, about the risk of running out of ammo -- of dropping rates so quickly that they hit some floor, at or close to zero, with no room to cut further when the economy is still weakening. That could make the central bank look impotent and raise comparisons to Japan. But some Fed officials have the opposite worry: that the Fed will overdo rate cuts now so that inflation takes hold next year or the year after. 

 Such concerns, however, have been overtaken by an overriding desire to act quickly and get the impact of lower rates into the economy as quickly as possible. The federal-funds rate, at which banks lend to each other overnight, hasn't been at 2.5% since 1962. And the Fed cut the discount rate, the rate at which it lends to banks directly, by one-half percentage point yesterday to 2%, at the request of eight of the Fed's 12 regional banks. That suggests a higher degree of consensus among policy makers than has been the case recently. Commercial banks lowered their prime rate to 5.5% from 6%. 

 Peter Hooper, chief U.S. economist at Deutsche Bank, thinks the Fed will move to quarter-point rate cuts now -- but not out of concern that rates will get to zero too quickly. "If they really think things are weak, they won't hold back," he says. 

 A number of factors are muting the economy's response to the Fed's rapid rate-cutting: Stock prices haven't risen much, as they usually do (despite a rally in the last week). The dollar isn't falling, as it usually does, so exporters aren't getting a boost, though it has weakened a bit recently. 

 And longer-term bond yields, which are the primary driver of mortgage rates, haven't fallen nearly as much as the short-term rates targeted by the Fed. In part that's because they fell a lot last year in anticipation of the Fed's action, a big reason the housing market didn't falter when so much of the economy did. And in part that's because Congress and the White House are working on a new fiscal stimulus package that could wipe out most, if not all, of this fiscal year's surplus, which means the government would be paying down little, if any, of its outstanding debt. 

 As a result, the rate on a 30-year fixed-rate mortgage rate has only fallen to 6.72%, compared with 7.38% at the end of last year, according to Freddie Mac, the big mortgage lender. 

 While applications to refinance mortgages are now above pre-attack levels, applications for mortgages from home buyers remain 9% lower, according to the Mortgage Bankers' Association of America. 

 Refinancing can be an important source of fuel for consumer spending. "I'm not worried about monetary policy having no impact," says David Hale, chief global economist at Zurich Group. "It's going to be in refinancing." He cites Fannie Mae data that suggests households have extracted some $70 billion to $80 billion in equity from their homes this year; if the Fed keeps short-term rates at current levels, the figure could be $80 billion to $100 billion next year, Mr. Hale says. 

 But mortgage refinancing may be losing some of its oomph, in part because of the failure of mortgage rates to match the drop in short-term rates. That has frustrated many potential borrowers. Dean McCaskill, vice president of Latin American sales for a security firm, has received numerous offers to refinance the $270,000 mortgage on his home near Fort Lauderdale, Fla., but when closing costs are included, he is unable to do much better than the 7.25% rate he got in 1998. 

 And more of those who are refinancing old, higher-interest mortgages aren't spending the proceeds. Sherri Steen, head of mortgage loan processing at Bar Harbor (Maine) Banking & Trust Co., hasn't had one application to purchase a new home in the past two weeks, though new loan applications are 20% above what the bank would normally expect. But most of the borrowers are using the money to pay off credit cards and other higher-interest loans. "People are being a little more cautious with the funds when they have it," Ms. Steen says. 

 The same is true in the West. Gary Broaddus, president of Green Mountain Mortgage Corp. of Lakewood, Colo., says refinancing typically accounts for 20% of his business, and home purchases, about 80%. Today, that ratio has flipped, with some 80% of customers refinancing. Some of those are converting equity in their homes into cash that they park in money-market funds in case they get laid off. "People don't like to have uncertainty." 

 For others, plunging stock prices have overwhelmed the benefit of lower mortgage rates. Israel Cuyler had been looking last year to trade up from the three-bedroom house he and his wife share in Rochester, N.Y. But the losses from his stock portfolio this year made it too difficult to finance both a new house and his two sons' college educations. In the wake of the terrorist attack, two potential clients put new contracts with his company, which performs janitorial services and lead and asbestos abatement, on hold. "Since the market tanked, I wouldn't buy crutches for a crippled crab," he says. 

 Such worries are why most economists expect the economy to contract in the current quarter and struggle back in the first or second quarter of next year. The times are unusual, they says, but the textbooks aren't wrong. With the usual lags -- which have never been easy to predict -- and some help from fiscal policy, monetary policy will pull the economy out of recession. "The question is how far do they need to go to offset the contraction in spending driven by the fear and uncertainty over the Sept. 11 attacks," says Harvard's Prof. Mankiw. "I have no doubt moving rates from 3%, to 2%, to 1%, or to zero will stimulate the economy." 

 Mr. Hale, the Zurich Group economist, rejects comparisons to the Great Depression of the 1930s or Japan in the 1990s. "Japan's banking system is rotten to the core," unable to do the basic lending needed for an economy to grow, he says. And in the 1930s, U.S. bank failures wiped out a third of bank deposits. "The banking sector was disintegrating." At first the present situation looks similar to 1991 to 1993, the last time before this week the federal-funds interest rate fell below the inflation rate. But back then, banks were so weak and shellshocked, they wouldn't or couldn't meet the demand for credit. They are much stronger and able to lend now. 

 As interest rates drop, it becomes more attractive for investors either to borrow or to shift savings into such investments as a home, a factory or a stock. Yesterday's stock-market gains suggest some investors think that point has arrived. And just as it is difficult for economists and the Fed to predict the effects of the Sept. 11 attack, so, too, it is difficult to gauge the power of the patriotism the attack has produced. 

 Bill Franklin, a Texas police captain who knew President Bush as governor, was motivated to refinance his home in part by President Bush's televised speech to Congress. He used the savings from lowering his mortgage rate to 6.5% from 8.25% to finance a 1997 Ford pickup truck for his 17-year-old daughter. "I felt I could help the nation by helping the economy," he says. 

 --- 

 Sholnn Freeman in Detroit, Andrew Caffrey in Boston, and Robert Gavin in Olympia, Wash., contributed to this article. 
   INi32 : Machinery/Industrial Goods | i351 : Motor Vehicles | i35101 : Passenger Cars | i64 : Retail/Wholesale | i651 : Automobile Dealing | i6511 : New Car Dealing | i814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | iaut : Automobiles | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | eec : European Union | gcat : Political/General News | gcrim : Crime/Courts | gterr : Acts of Terror | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | m131 : Money Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | npag : Page-One Story | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations   REeurz : Europe | gfr : Germany | namz : North America | usa : United States | usc : Midwest U.S. | weurz : Western Europe   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument j000000020011003dxa30001u  



 CLMTuesday's Markets   HD Stock Investors Show a `Comfort' Level --- Rate Cut Spurs 113.76-Point Rise, Surprising Many    BY By E.S. Browning    CRStaff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal   WC933 words   PD3 October 2001   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGC1   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 2001, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)
   LP Relieved that the Federal Reserve appears to be pulling out the stops to revive the economy, investors applauded yesterday's half-point interest-rate cut, boosting bonds and pushing the Dow Jones Industrial Average up 1.29%. 

 The late-day jump in stocks surprised many investors, who had thought the market had anticipated the rate cut, the Fed's ninth so far this year. In its statement accompanying the cut, the Fed said the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks "have significantly heightened" uncertainty in an already weak economy. 
   TD Yet despite the Fed's concern, signs are spreading that some professional investors are gradually putting money back into stocks. 

 "The market has reached a level that makes people feel a lot more comfortable that we have seen the worst of what could happen," said stock trader Rob Cohen at brokerage firm Credit Suisse First Boston. Some worry less about more declines now, and "there have been a lot of people who are nervous about missing a sharp move" upward, he said. 

 Stocks fluctuated up and down immediately following the Fed announcement as investors debated its importance. They worried about the terse Fed commentary on the weak economy but were pleased that the Fed cut rates by half a point instead of a quarter point. Ultimately, the buyers prevailed, and the Dow industrials advanced 113.76 points to 8950.59. 

 The Nasdaq Composite Index, with some technology stocks such as Intel and Cisco Systems declining, put in a weaker gain of 0.80%, or 11.87 points, to finish at 1492.33. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 1.23%, or 12.78 points, to 1051.33. 

 Compared to past Fed announcements, the reaction this time was mild. Bond prices moved only a little after the Fed move, said Mark Mahoney, Treasury-market strategist at brokerage firm UBS Warburg. Longer-term bonds had been up for several days in anticipation of a string of Fed cuts to come, he noted, and they held on to some gains. 

 The 10-year Treasury note rose 5/32, or $1.5625 for each $1,000 invested. Its yield, which moves inversely to price, fell to 4.51%. 

 The biggest move was in shorter-term paper, notably the two-year note. The two-year note rose after the announcement, because some traders had been betting on a Fed cut of only a quarter point. They had to adjust their positions when the cut was larger. 

 Now, Mr. Mahoney said, interest-rate futures reflect expectations of a quarter-point cut next month in the Fed's target short-term rates and the possibility of yet another quarter-point cut after that. Mr. Mahoney said that he, too, expects two more quarter-point cuts. 

 One reason: "The Fed's language was gloomier than expected" concerning the economy's weakness, he said, indicating that more cuts are almost certain. 

 Fed rate cuts translate almost immediately into a lower prime rate, or base lending rate, at most banks. Loans pegged to prime, such as many business loans and home-equity loans, will carry lower interest rates now. The expectation of more cuts could be good for mortgage rates as well. Those typically are based on the 10-year Treasury yield, and that yield generally falls when Fed rate-cuts are anticipated, as it has done in recent days. 

 All the same, investors were hardly euphoric. The Fed's terse four-paragraph commentary, much shorter than most, left many investors thinking that any economic recovery will be slow and difficult. 

 "The economic fundamentals are weak and weakening," said Frederick Taylor, vice chairman of U.S. Trust, the money-management division of Charles Schwab. "The investing public will continue to think in a risk-averse fashion." 

 Still, the overall market is getting closer to a "reasonable valuation," he said, and as a result, his firm gradually is moving a small amount of money into stocks, notably into beaten-down travel, entertainment and insurance shares, as well as drug and oil stocks. He said he expects some economic recovery to show up by the early or middle part of next year. 

 "I don't want to be cavalier, but how can it help but get better?" Mr. Taylor said. "There is no one flying on planes or going into stores or buying automobiles. Unless we have more terrorist activities, that will reverse itself somewhat," although investors will remain cautious, he said. 

 Some temporary, technical factors also helped boost stocks after the Fed announcement. Some short-sellers, who borrow stock and sell it in hopes of profiting by buying it back cheaper later, took profits when stocks initially fell in response to the Fed news, traders said. To do that, they bought back the stocks they had sold, which gave the market an artificial boost. 

 Outside the U.S., stocks advanced in dollar terms. The Dow Jones World Stock Index, excluding U.S. stocks, rose 0.76%, or 0.87 point, to 115.30. 

 In major U.S. market action: 

 Stocks advanced. On the Big Board, where 1.28 billion shares traded, 2,078 stocks rose and 1,056 fell. 

 Bonds gained. The 30-year bond was up 17/32 to yield 5.34%. 

 The dollar was mixed. Late in New York, it traded at 120.83 yen, up from 120.27, while the euro rose against the dollar to 91.88 cents from 91.71. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | eec : European Union | m11 : Equity Markets | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nsum : News Digest | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations   REasiaz : Asia | easiaz : Eastern Asia | jap : Japan | namz : North America | usa : United States   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument j000000020011003dxa30001t  



 CLMCredit Markets   HD Patriotism, Higher Yield Boost New York's Sale Of $1 Billion in Notes to Finance City's Recovery    BY By Henny Sender    CRStaff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal   WC1,168 words   PD3 October 2001   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGC12   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 2001, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)
   LP New York City sold $1 billion in notes to help finance its recovery, but the city had to offer a slightly higher rate than it had hoped. 

 New York tried to take advantage of the outpouring of patriotism in the wake of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks by offering the tax-exempt notes with a low initial yield of 2.1%. However, after institutional investors balked, Bear Stearns Cos., the lead manager, was forced to raise the initial yield to 2.18%. 
   TD That sent $2 billion in institutional orders flooding in, and the deal  was done at 2.13%. The notes from New York City's Transitional Finance Authority will be used to cover cleanup costs until the federal aid money comes in. They are backed by the city income tax. 

 The deal wasn't affected by the Federal Reserve's decision to slice an important interest rate by half a percentage point, said Dan Keating, a senior managing director in fixed income at Bear Stearns. Patriotic fervor appeared to be a factor for some of the note buyers. Retail investors, who normally buy 10% to 15% of such offerings, snapped up 40% of the notes. 

 Heide Alexander, a resident of Battery Park City just a block away from the World Trade Center, plans to sell shares of stock and buy the New York City notes. "Instead of focusing on the destruction, to buy these bonds is a positive thing to help rebuild," she said. "That way good can come out of the bad." 

 The heaviest buying came from tax-exempt mutual funds, which have seen their coffers swell with funds from refugees fleeing the uncertainty of the stock market. 

 "It was both well received and well secured," said Gary Pollack, a fixed-income director for Deutsche Bank Private Banking in New York. 

 All holders of the notes won't have to pay federal income tax on the interest. However, the notes were particularly attractive to New York residents, who will also escape state and city taxes. "I had some large orders from high-net-worth individuals," Mr. Pollack said. "To get almost 90% of what one-year Treasuries are yielding and yet be totally tax-exempt is very attractive." 

 Outside New York, demand was less pronounced. 

 Kelly Mainelli, a California-based fund manager for Montgomery Asset Management, didn't buy any of the notes though he monitored the deal for clues about general market conditions. For many institutions, the yield on the New York notes was ultimately too low, according to Alexandra Lebenthal, president and chief executive of Lebenthal & Co., a municipal-bond house in New York. 

 The deal received the highest rating for short-term debt. Still, fund managers say that today's financing doesn't deliver any message about New York's future financial viability after the attacks. "It is possible that if the long-term effect is to keep tourists out and and there is a mass migration out of the city, we may find the rating agencies thinking about downgrades," says Tom Mole, a managing director at J.W. Seligman & Co, a New York securities firm. "But this was a safe bet." New York City generally raises about $4.5 billion a year from the capital markets. 

 Treasurys 

 Treasurys rose as investors wagered the Federal Reserve will cut interest rates further, even after yesterday's Fed easing. 

 Policy makers made the year's ninth rate cut, lowering the target for Federal Funds, or the overnight-lending level, a half-percentage point to 2.5% and the discount rate a half-percentage point to 2%. 

 "The terrorist attacks have significantly heightened uncertainty in an economy that was already weak," the Fed said, adding, "risks are weighted toward conditions that may generate economic weakness in the foreseeable future." 

 At 4 p.m. EDT, the benchmark 10-year note was up 8/32 point, or $2.50 per $1,000 face value, at 103 28/32. Its yield fell to 4.508% from 4.538% Monday, as yields move inversely to prices. 

 The 30-year Treasury bond's price rose 17/32 point to 100 18/32 to yield 5.336%, down from 5.372% Monday. 

 In a Dow Jones Newswires/CNBC survey yesterday following the Fed announcement, 24 primary dealers in Treasurys said the Fed will trim the Federal-Funds rate target by another quarter-percentage point at its next policy meeting, on Nov. 6. 

 Investors have ignored most recent economic releases, assuming that only surveys taken after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks will provide reliable assessments of the economy. Still, many await two Labor Department reports: tomorrow's weekly update on claim filings for unemployment-insurance benefits and Friday's monthly report on employment trends. 


  Here are results of yesterday's Treasury auction of four-week bills.
All bids are awarded at a single price at the market-clearing yield.
Rates are determined by the difference between that price and the face
value.
Applications ............................. $20,767,906,000
Accepted bids ............................  $8,000,096,000
Accepted noncompetitively ................     $11,823,000
Accepted frgn noncomp ....................              $0
Auction price (Rate) ..................... 99.823 (2.280%)
Coupon equivalent ........................          2.311%
Bids at market-clearing yield accepted ...           3.39%
Cusip number .............................       912795HU8
  The notes are dated Oct. 4, and mature Nov. 1.



Corporate Bonds



In investment-grade corporate-debt offerings, the Detroit Edison unit
of DTE Energy Co. sold a two-part, $700 million first-mortgage bond
issue.



A $200 million, four-year part was priced to yield 1.32 percentage
points over Treasurys, while a $500 million, nine-year part was priced
to yield 1.60 percentage points over Treasurys. The bonds were rated
single-A-3 by Moody's Investors Service and single-A-minus by Standard &
Poor's and sold via joint lead managers Salomon Smith Barney, Barclays
Capital and Banc One Capital Markets.



Conoco Inc. and its Conoco Global Funding unit were planning to sell
a combined $2.5 billion. Conoco Global Funding will sell five-, 10- and
30-year maturities indicated, respectively, to provide yield margins
over Treasurys of 1.8 percentage points, 1.95 percentage points and 2.05
percentage points. Credit Suisse First Boston, J.P. Morgan Chase and
Salomon Smith Barney Inc. will be joint bookrunning managing
underwriters.



Conoco Inc. will sell floating-rate securities with one-year,
18-month and two-year maturities. They were indicated to provide
respective yields over three-month Libor of 0.75 to 0.8 percentage
point; 0.85 to 0.9 percentage point; and 0.95 to one percentage point.
Banc of America Securities, Deutsche Banc Alex. Brown and J. P. Morgan
will serve as joint-bookrunners. The debt is rated Baa1 by Moody's and
triple-B-plus by S&P.



---



Steven Vames and Michael C. Barr contributed to this article.

   COberstn : The Bear Stearns Companies LLC   INi1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i16 : Electricity/Gas Utilities | i16101 : Electric Power Generation | i831 : Financial Investments | i83101 : Investment Banking | iinv : Investing/Securities   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | e21 : Government Finance | e211 : Government Taxation/Revenue | e213 : Sub-national/Local Taxes | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gcrim : Crime/Courts | gterr : Acts of Terror | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REnamz : North America | nyc : New York City | usa : United States | usc : Midwest U.S. | use : Northeast U.S. | usny : New York | uss : Southern U.S.   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument j000000020011003dxa30001r  



 CLMForeign Exchange   HD Dollar Shows Little Reaction to Fed Rate Cut    BY By Grainne McCarthy    CRDow Jones Newswires   WC581 words   PD3 October 2001   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGC14   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 2001, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)
   LP NEW YORK -- The dollar shrugged off a widely expected interest-rate cut by the Federal Reserve, ending the day slightly weaker against the euro and slightly higher against the yen as heightened political risk continued to weigh on the currency. 

 Sterling, meanwhile, weakened sharply against its major counterparts after U.K. Prime Minister Tony Blair gave his strongest endorsement yet to joining European Monetary Union during the five-year lifetime of his current Parliament. 
   TD As expected, the Fed cut its overnight federal-funds rate target (which governs overnight interbank loans) to 2.5% from 3.0%, its lowest level since 1962. It also lowered the discount rate (a key benchmark) by the same amount, to 2%. The Federal Open Market Committee reiterated that "the risks are weighted mainly toward conditions that may generate economic weakness in the foreseeable future." 

 This was exactly what currency markets had been expecting, a fact that sparked a slight selloff in the dollar in the aftermath of the rate decision, but not much price movement. 

 In late New York trading, the euro was at 91.88 U.S. cents, up from 91.41 cents in London and from 91.71 cents in New York late Monday. The dollar was at 120.83 yen, up from 120.75 yen in London and above 120.27 yen late Monday in New York. 

 Sterling was trading at $1.4692, off its intraday low of $1.4625, but well weaker than $1.4794 in New York Monday. The dollar was at 1.6191 Swiss francs, up from 1.6168 Swiss francs Monday. 

 The fact that the Fed indicated it stood ready to ease again was another factor the market had been hoping to hear, but again, had already priced into the dollar. 

 Increased war rhetoric from Mr. Blair at the Labor Party conference in Brighton, England, as well as another refusal yesterday by Afghanistan's ruling Taliban to surrender Osama bin Laden without proof he was involved in the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks kept currency markets focused on the political risk to the dollar. 

 From a pure monetary policy perspective, the Fed rate cut further widens the interest-rate differential between the U.S. and euro zone, a factor that should lead to some euro strengthening, said Mike Rosenberg, head of foreign-exchange research at Deutsche Bank in New York. 

 On the other hand, the fact that the Bank of Japan has been almost as aggressive as the Fed in easing policy likely points the way to further dollar strength against the yen, he said. 

 Sterling weakened sharply against both the dollar and euro, however, as traders sold it heavily after Mr. Blair said the U.K. should join the common European currency this Parliament if the economic conditions are met. 

 Elsewhere, the Swiss franc lost some ground, partly on the back of Swissair Group's  decision to ground all its planes because the company failed to make payments for fuel and other expenses. 

 Ashraf Laidi, chief currency analyst at MG Financial in New York, said Swissair's announcement had "lowered the Swiss franc to attractive low levels," although prospects of a deal between the airline and its bankers "may also help the franc." 

 Elevated risks of near-term military action and/or further terrorist attacks should allow the Swiss franc to continue to benefit from its safe-haven status, however, Mr. Laidi added. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | e52 : Euro Zone/Currency | ecat : Economic News | eec : European Union | gcat : Political/General News | gpol : Domestic Politics | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations   REasiaz : Asia | easiaz : Eastern Asia | eurz : Europe | jap : Japan | namz : North America | switz : Switzerland | uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | weurz : Western Europe   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument j000000020011003dxa30001h  



 CLMWorld Stock Markets   HD Major Overseas Stock Markets Gain, but Investors Grow Worried About Possible European Recession    BY By Craig Karmin    CRStaff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal   WC1,294 words   PD3 October 2001   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGC10   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 2001, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)
   LP Major markets abroad generally moved higher, though investors said it had little to do with the widely anticipated interest-rate cut in the U.S. 

 The Federal Reserve's half-percentage point reduction brought U.S. rates to their lowest level in nearly 40 years, and a number of Asian central banks and the European Central Bank are expected to follow the Fed's lead with their own cuts in the weeks ahead. 
   TD But investors remain skeptical that looser monetary conditions can do much to resuscitate flagging business investment or mitigate weakening U.S. consumer confidence that seems to be spreading abroad. Some note that while the Fed has trimmed rates nine times in 2001, global markets haven't responded forcefully to these cuts since early in the year. 

 "The fact is the fundamental prospects for most companies in most industries are lousy right now," says Dominic Freud, head of European equities for SG Cowen. "The Federal Reserve cutting rates isn't really going to help that." 

 European markets opened weaker, but rallied after U.S. futures and then stocks opened higher. Blue-chip indexes in Paris and London gained around 1% and Frankfurt's Xetra DAX Index advanced 1.5%. In Asia, Tokyo enjoyed big gains but Taiwan's Weighted Price Index plunged 4% to a nine-year low after semiconductor shares fell overnight in the U.S. 

 Overall, the Dow Jones World Stock Index fell 0.45%, or 0.72 point, to 159.21 points. Excluding the U.S., the index fell 0.53%, or 0.61 point, to 114.43. 

 After taking a two-week pounding that began the day following the terrorist attacks, major European stock markets have fought their way back to levels approaching those of Sept. 11. But analysts are rapidly marking down earlier predictions of 18% to 20% earnings growth in 2002. "People are starting to talk about recovery being pushed back to the second half of 2002, or possibly even longer," says Mr. Freud. 

 Indeed, France's Havas Advertising said yesterday that it doesn't expect its business to pick up until 2003, causing its share price to plummet 13% to 5.69 euros. In the U.K., United Business Media shares fell 8.6% to 345.5 pence after the company said that advertising at its U.S. technology publications had slumped. 

 Other corporate news in Europe was equally discouraging and cut across sectors. The chairman of Spanish airline Iberia said the company is studying cost-control measures that could include staff and flight reductions, and is reviewing the planned purchase of 19 new aircraft for 2002. 

 Dutch temporary-employment agency Vedior, meanwhile, issued a profit warning that sent its shares falling 18% and other stocks in the employment sector plunging 10% to 20% across Europe. Figures from the French government indicated that consumer confidence has fallen to its lowest levels in around three years. 

 The European Central Bank is expected to cut interest rates when it meets again on Oct. 11. But for many investors, who maintain that the ECB was too concerned about inflation and underestimated the slowdown in growth, this move would come too late. 

 "Had they cut rates six months ago, you'd be seeing more economic activity in Europe," says Steve Bleiberg, head of global equity strategy at Credit Suisse Asset Management in New York. 

 In fact, Merrill Lynch is already forecasting a European recession -- and for reasons similar to what is plaguing the U.S. In a client note last week, the brokerage firm said that "greater uncertainty about the future of the global economy is likely to dampen investment and consumption quickly." 

 Merrill Lynch is projecting a European recession for the third and fourth quarters, coinciding with a recession in the U.S., though it also forecasts a strong recovery in the second half of 2002 as fiscal and monetary stimulus programs finally kick in. 

 --- 

 Other Market Activity 

 In TOKYO, the Nikkei Stock Average gained 1.7%, or 164.28 points, to 10136.56, crossing above the 10000 mark for the first time since Sept. 14. Major banks rose amid relief that UFJ Holdings' bleaker earnings outlook was in line with analysts' revised forecasts. UFJ Holdings shares rose 0.2% to 580,000 yen, while Mitsubishi Tokyo Financial Group gained 4.1% to 998,000 yen. Mizuho Holdings rose 1.5% to 475,000 yen. Compaq Computer's profit warning Monday prompted heavy foreign selling of high-tech blue chips. Sony dropped 1.2% to 4,050 yen, while NEC fell for a fifth straight day, shedding 1.6% to close at 930 yen. Toshiba fell 2.1% to 429 yen and Fujitsu dropped 4% to 947 yen. 

 In TAIPEI, the Weighted Price Index fell 4%, or 144.82 points, to 3492.12, its lowest close since Jan. 30, 1993. Electronics shares bore the brunt of the selloff, declining 4.9% after the overnight drop in the Philadelphia Semiconductor Index. Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing fell 3.6% to 45 New Taiwan dollars. 

 In LONDON, the FTSE 100 Index rose 1%, or 46.7 points, to 4832.3. Tobacco stocks continued to rally. Imperial Tobacco rose 29.5 pence, or 3.5%, to 862.5 pence, and BAT gained 8.5 pence, or 1.3%, to 620 pence. Shire Pharmaceutical added 58.5 pence, or 6.6%, to 945.5 pence after Nomura Securities reiterated a buy rating on the stock. Oil stocks rebounded from Monday's losses. BP rose 17.5 pence, or 3.3%, to 546 pence, and Shell gained 11.5 pence, or 2.3%, to 498.5 pence after BP issued a statement reaffirming that it will meet a 5.5% growth target for 2001. 

 In PARIS, the CAC 40 Index gained 1%, or 40.09 points, to 4044.66. Software editor Dassault Systemes rose 4.4% to 35.09 euros, while Franco-Italian chip-maker STMicroelectronics gained 3.8% to 24.18 euros. Pan-European defense and space company EADS fell 3.7% to 10.64 euros on Goldman Sachs's downgrade and jitters over Swissair, which stopped all operations earlier yesterday. 


---
                 Morgan Stanley Indexes
                                           %FROM
                    Oct. 1   Sept. 28      12-00
U.S. .............  988.4      989.9       -20.9
Britain .......... 1443.6     1478.3       -21.6
Canada ...........  860.5      863.9       -25.6
Japan ............  640.8      628.4       -20.7
France ........... 1329.0     1350.6       -30.1
Germany ..........  545.2      551.4       -33.3
Hong Kong ........ 4964.2     4964.2       -35.4
Switzerland ......  747.6      758.0       -26.5
Australia ........  618.6      607.7       - 3.4
World Index ......  922.0      926.0       -24.5
EAFE MSCI-p ...... 1072.5     1081.0       -28.1
  As calculated by Morgan Stanley Capital International Perspective,
Geneva. Each index, calculated in local currencies, is based on the
close of 1969 equaling 100. p-Preliminary.
---
                  Reacting to the Fed
  How the major world indexes responded in anticipation of, and after,
the U.S. Federal Reserves's half-point cut to its target interest rate
yesterday, and how they stand so far in 2001.
                       Percentage change     Year-to-date
  Index                  yesterday        percentage change
  Tokyo Nikkei 225          1.65%              -26.47%
  Frankfurt Xetra DAX       1.51               -33.10
  Singapore Straits Times   1.35               -29.92
  Dow Jones Industrial Avg  1.29               -17.02
  S&P 500 Index             1.23               -20.37
  Paris CAC-40              1.00               -31.75
  London FTSE100            0.98               -22.34
  Nasdaq Composite          0.80               -39.59
  Mexico IPC               -0.44                -5.14
  Brazil Bovespa           -1.43               -32.17
  Taiwan Weighted          -3.98               -26.39
  Source: Reuters via WSJ Market Data Group

   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | eec : European Union | m11 : Equity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations   REasiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia | cana : Canada | china : China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | easiaz : Eastern Asia | eurz : Europe | fra : France | gfr : Germany | hkong : Hong Kong | jap : Japan | medz : Mediterranean | namz : North America | switz : Switzerland | uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | weurz : Western Europe   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument j000000020011003dxa30000v  



 HDUS bonds rise on hints of further economic decay.   BYBy JENNY WIGGINS IN NEW YORK.     WC341 words   PD3 October 2001   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2001 The Financial Times Ltd. All rights reserved. Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the web.  
   LPUS government securities continued to push higher across the curve yesterday as fears of ongoing economic deterioration gave rise to expectations of yet more interest rate cuts.

The Federal Reserve, after cutting the federal funds rate by 50 basis points to 2.50 per cent on Tuesday, indicated more easing is likely. On Wednesday the market had already priced in another 25bp cut at the Open Market Committee's next meeting in November, traders said.
   TDThe two-year note, whch is most sensitive to changes in interest rates, was up 3/32 to 100 1/16 at midday, yielding an historically low 2.713 per cent.

The market also ignored better-than-expected business activity data from the National Association of Purchasing Managers. The non-manufacturing NAPM survey rose to 50.2 in September from 45.5 in August.

Traders said the figures were not an accurate reflection of the post-September 11 period. "The figures are fairly irrelevant right now," said Drew Forbes of Daiwa Securities. "We're not going to get clean numbers for one or two months."

Signs that additional fiscal spending to fund the recovery effort following the terrorist attacks will remain below $100bn helped the long end of the curve move higher amid relief inflation will be kept in check. The Treasury Secretary, Paul O'Neill, said on Wednesday morning that spending next year should be in the range of $60bn to $75bn. Lower commodity prices have also helped rein in inflation fears.

The 30-year bond was up 13/16 to 101 l at midday, yielding 5.273 per cent, while the 10-year note had risen 17/32 to 104 13/32 with a yield of 4.443 per cent.

The ongoing fall in 10-year interest rates, has helped push down mortagage rates, encouraging more homeowners to refinance. The Mortgage Bankers Association said on Wednesday that its weekly refinance index had reached its highest levels since October 1998. 
   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | effund : Federal Funds Rate | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument ftcom00020011004dxa30000n  



 HDRate cut completes the circle for Greenspan.   BYBy AT 2.5%,OVERNIGHT RATES ARE AT THEIR LOWEST LEVEL IN 39 YEARS, WRITES GERARD BAKER.    WC672 words   PD3 October 2001   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPThe last time short-term US interest rates were held for a sustained period below 3 per cent John F. Kennedy was in the White House, Alan Shephard had just become the first American in space and Alan Greenspan was a successful but somewhat obscure financial adviser with a taste for saxophone solos.

On Tuesday the interest cycle turned full circle when the same Mr Greenspan and his colleagues at the Federal Reserve cut their key monetary policy instrument - the Federal funds target rate - to 2.5 per cent, bringing overnight rates to their lowest level in 39 years. The combination of a quiescent inflationary environment, the year-long slide in business investment and the anxious uncertainties wrought by the terrorist horrors of September 11 prompted the ninth rate cut this year and the second since the disasters in New York, Washington and Pennsylvania.
   TDWith the year-on-year inflation rate at about 2.5 per cent, Tuesday's move also takes real interest rates to around zero, giving an indication of how stimulative the Fed is trying to be. The last time the Fed reduced real short-term rates to zero was when it was attempting to lift the economy out of its prolonged weakness in the early 1990s.

But this time real rates may still have away to go before they turn negative. The inflation trend seems to be headed well below 2.5 per cent in the next few months.

Nonetheless, the level of real and nominal rates and the speed with which the Fed has acted - both before and after the attacks - are a testament to its own belief in the efficacy of monetary policy in lifting the economy out of the trough into which it has descended in the last year. But this outward confidence is based on historical patterns of spending that may prove less relevant in the current circumstances - as some Fed officials and policymakers acknowledge.

But the effectiveness of rate cuts in these circumstances is an open question, not least among policymakers themselves before Tuesday's meeting. Senior monetary policy officials had been puzzling over the unfamiliar nature of the slowdown even before September 11. Unlike past downturns, the weakness that began a year ago started in the corporate sector and was manifest in a sharp decline in investment spending as companies rolled back some of the big investments made in the late 1990s. Capital spending dropped at an annual rate of 7.6 per cent in the first half of this year.

By contrast, although growth in consumer spending slowed at the same time, consumption remained robust, sustained by a strong housing market. Interest rate cuts typically stimulate an economy out of weakness - initially through the housing market and the consumer - but this time those components were already relatively strong and have not responded to stimulus.

On top of that, the events of September 11 have undermined business and consumer confidence and Fed officials are not certain how effective monetary or fiscal efforts to restore confidence will be in the presence of fears for physical safety. Mr Greenspan told members of Congress last week in a closed-door meeting that the most effective means of restoring confidence would be the assurance of public safety in the months ahead.

In these circumstances the central bank is operating under even greater uncertainty than usual.

"Were it not for the extraordinary fear and uncertainty problem right now, the Fed would not have gone 50 basis points today," said Peter Hooper, chief US economist at Deutsche Banc Alex Brown in New York, and a former Fed economist.

But for the time being the Fed - and financial markets - continue to put their trust in interest rate cuts; and even with the Fed funds rate at 2.5 per cent, there is still some considerable room for further action if Mr Greenspan deems it necessary. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gcrim : Crime/Courts | gterr : Acts of Terror   REnamz : North America | usa : United States | use : Northeast U.S. | uspa : Pennsylvania   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument ftcom00020011003dxa30006q  



 HD Australian rate cut expected amid fears of global recession    WC408 words   PD2 October 2001   SNAgence France-Presse   SCAFPR   LAEnglish   CYCopyright (c) 2001 Bell & Howell Information and Learning Company. All rights reserved.
   LP SYDNEY, Oct 2 (AFP) - Australia's official interest rates are expected to be cut to an historic low Wednesday after central bankers met Tuesday amidst fears of a global recession, analysts said. 

 Whether the Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) cuts the official cash rate of 4.75 percent by a quarter or half percentage point will depend on how it gauges the impact on Australia of the September 11 terrorist attacks in the United States. 
   TD The RBA was the only major central bank not to move rates lower after the Federal Reserve reduced US interest rates by half a percentage point soon after the attacks. 

 Westpac chief economist Bill Evans said the Federal Reserve was expected to again cut rates after it meets Tuesday. 

 "Given the sharply heightened global risks and the fact that the Fed would have cut by a total of one percent since the last RBA move, we think the RBA is certain to move again," Evans said. 

 The economic circumstances justify a 0.5 percentage point cut but Evans expressed concern the RBA might opt for a more conservative 0.25 percentage point reduction. 

 The key to the RBA's decision would be its assessment of whether the terrorist attacks would have a short-term or more widespread impact on the United States and world economies, Evans said. 

 Complicating the decision is the imminent announcement of a general election in Australia. Convention dictates that no interest rate decisions will take place during the campaign. 

 Australian Prime Minister John Howard, who is expected to announce an election date this week, said Tuesday the poll could be held on November 10, but no decision had yet been made. 

 Any RBA easing would have to be good for two months  -- after the election -- by which time the United States and other central banks were likely to have cut further, Evans said. 

 Commonwealth Bank chief economist Michael Blythe anticipates a 0.25 percent rate cut Wednesday. 

 He said all the new risks to the global economy since the terrorist attacks have been on the downside. 

 "They may be enough to tip the global economy into recession. They should be enough to stir the RBA into action," Blythe said. 

 Australia, which has cut official interest rates four times since they stood at 6.25 percent in February, last reduced by 0.25 percentage points on September 5. 

 jo/jt/bro 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gcrim : Crime/Courts | gterr : Acts of Terror   REausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia | namz : North America | usa : United States   IPDFinancial | SEQN: 0071 | RBA International Inc | Evans, Bill   ANDocument afpr000020011002dxa2001pn  



 HD POLL-Wall St. counting on more Fed rate cuts this year.    BY By Marjorie Olster    WC543 words   PD2 October 2001   ET23:08   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 Reuters Limited
   LP NEW YORK, Oct 2 (Reuters) - Wall Street is counting on more Federal Reserveinterest rate cuts before the year ends to counter a feared recession following the Sept. 11 attacks on the United States, a new poll taken after Tuesday's half-point rate cut showed. 

 With many on Wall Street already convinced the country is in a recession, there is a growing consensus the central bank will reduce its benchmark federal funds rate to 2.0 percent in the next three months. 
   TD Of 25 primary dealers of U.S. government securities polled, 17 predicted a 2.0 percent funds rate by Dec. 31 and eight said it would be 2.25 percent. 

 The survey was conducted after the policy setting Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) cut the funds rate from 3.0 percent to 2.5 percent on Tuesday, its ninth reduction this year and second half-point cut since Sept. 11. The rate now stands at its lowest point since 1962. 

 "I think fourth-quarter gross domestic product (GDP) could be negative as well as the third quarter, which means that 2.0 percent fed funds is still in the cards." said Ian Morris, chief U.S. economist at HSBC Securities (USA) in New York. 

 The attacks last month by hijackers who crashed planes into the World Trade Center in New York and the Pengtagon outside of Washington left some 5,700 dead or missing and dealt a body blow to the U.S. economy. 

 The Fed said the attacks "significantly heightened uncertainty" about the economy and added that the greatest risk to the economy remained excessive weakness, both of which suggest more rate cuts were likely. 

 The economy was already shaky prior to the attacks, but many analysts say the assaults ensured at least a short recession by sapping consumer and business confidence and triggering more job cuts. A recession is typically defined as two quarters during which the GDP contracts. 

 All but one of the 25 firms who deal directly with the Fed in money markets said the FOMC would reduce the funds rate on overnight bank lending by a quarter point at its next meeting on Nov. 6. The 25th dealer, Deutsche Banc Alex. Brown, said the Fed would probably cut. Sixteen said a November cut would be followed by another quarter-point cut at the Dec. 11 meeting. 

 "The statement just confirms what some people doubted - that authorities both fiscal and monetary are going to fire on all cylinders for the economy, said Dominic Konstam, head of interest-rate strategy at Credit Suisse First Boston. 

 "There is obviously a very serious problem in the economy in terms of confidence. Corporate America was and still is in a profit recession and firing people. They have a huge debt burden so having low interest rates and lots of liquidity allows that process to unravel in a more orderly way," he added. 

 Most dealers expect the Fed to leave rates low for some time in an indication that no quick economic recovery is expected. Fifteen of the 23 dealers polled said the funds rate would remain at 2.0 percent through the middle of next year. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m11 : Equity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   ANDocument lba0000020011002dxa208am8  



 HD U.S. CEOs say rate cut not enough to spur spending.    BY By Julie MacIntosh    WC723 words   PD2 October 2001   ET22:36   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 Reuters Limited
   LP NEW YORK, Oct 2 (Reuters) - U.S. executives on Tuesday welcomed the Federal Reserve's interest rate cuts, though they said shoring up shattered consumer confidence is more important than lower rates for boosting the economy and cautioned the cuts are not enough to spur new spending by American companies. 

 The Fed's ninth rate cut this year slashed the key federal funds rate to 2.5 percent, its lowest level since 1962, and the U.S. central bank said it was poised to act again to avert a recession in the wake of the Sept. 11 attacks. 
   TD The Fed's move led a number of major U.S. banks to cut their lending rates for their most credit-worthy customers to 5.5 percent from 6 percent. Lower rates should encourage borrowing as companies, and consumers, pay less interest on their loans. 

 But executives said until U.S. manufacturers, retailers and other industries report stronger demand, borrowing and spending levels are not likely to rise significantly, thwarting an economic recovery. 

 "If people are worried about a job tomorrow, or worried about their future, it doesn't matter where interest rates are," said John Correnti, chief executive of Birmingham Steel Corp. 

 He said consumer confidence remains shattered and will keep Americans from buying the new cars, washers, driers and homes that would spur industrial production and the economy. 

 By cutting interest rates, the Fed hopes to encourage companies to borrow money to step up spending on capital goods and services. A strong level of capital spending is generally seen as a key component of economic health. 

 But the weak economic outlook takes first stage to an increase in corporate outlays, executives said. 

 'OFFSETTING IMPACT' 

 A drop in spending on durable goods "has an immediate and significant revenue and profit impact on us which far outweighs the smaller benefit we get from lower interest rates," said Kevin Brown, chief financial officer at automotive parts maker Donnelly Corp. 

 Tuesday's rate cut "has a small offsetting impact, but not nearly significant enough to stimulate us to go spend more money." 

 U.S. companies had struggled against cuts in capital spending, lower consumer confidence and sagging demand for goods and services prior to the devastating attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon. 

 New orders and factory production in the nation's manufacturing sector had increased slightly, however, and corporate earnings warnings had pared down until the attacks brought on another wave of consumer and corporate anxiety. 

 About 200 U.S. companies across a broad range of industries have issued profit warnings since Sept. 11, many citing the attacks as the impetus for lower results. Sales at discount, chain and department stores also dropped sharply during September, according to Instinet Research's Redbook Retail Sales Average. 

 Executives hailed the rate cut, saying it showed the Fed is working hard to stimulate growth and soothe the nerves of U.S. consumers whose spending accounts for about two-thirds of the economy. 

 "It really does demonstrate that the Fed is there and they're going to do what it takes to get things moving again," said Norm Wesley, chairman and chief executive at Fortune Brands Inc., maker of everything from Titleist golf balls to Jim Beam bourbon. 

 "A Fed cut in and of itself would not be something to make us go back and revisit" the more carefree spending policies of the near decade-long economic boom, though, Wesley cautioned. 

 Many corporate leaders echoed Wesley's comments following the rate cut decision by the Federal Open Market Committee, the Fed's interest rate-setting panel. The FOMC had widely been expected to cut its key lending rate by half a percentage point, matching the size of its last cut on Sept. 17. 

 To add weight to the Fed's rate cuts and the U.S. government's rebate checks to taxpayers, several corporate officers said they'd like to see a more widespread approach to stimulating the economy, such as cuts in capital gains or income taxes. 

 "We like to see some fiscal policy stimulus along with monetary policy," said Dean Priddy, chief financial officer of wireless telephone equipment maker RF Micro Devices Inc. . "They both play a major role in the economy." 
   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1105 : Consumer Sentiment | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   ANDocument lba0000020011002dxa2082we  



 HD U.S. stocks drop after Fed's ninth rate cut this year.    BY By Denise Duclaux    WC860 words   PD2 October 2001   ET21:08   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 Reuters Limited
   LP NEW YORK, Oct 2 (Reuters) - Stocks slipped in late afternoon trading on Tuesday after the Federal Reserve ratcheted down borrowing costs by a half percentage point in its ninth interest-rate cut this year to revive the nation's ailing economy. 

 "I personally feel it's appropriate, and will be effective in reviving and supporting the economy and markets," said Clare Zempel, director of investment policy at Robert W. Baird & Co., explaining the fact that stocks declined after the cut is a "reminder the economy is currently weak and there is risk." 
   TD The central bank cut interest rates by a half percentage point for the second time in three weeks in the wake of the Sept. 11 attacks that decimated the World Trade Center and slammed the Pentagon. The latest reduction brings the federal funds overnight lending rate to 2.5 percent, its lowest level since 1962 during the Kennedy administration. 

 Fund managers said a half-point cut already had been factored into stocks and would not trigger a sustained rally or prove a speedy remedy for falling corporate profits. This year's rate cuts have done little so far to stop the wrenching slide in stocks, which hit new three-year lows last month. 

 "It's so unclear whether rate cuts are a good idea or that cuts are going to do anything," said Edgar Peters, chief investment officer at Boston-based PanAgora Asset Management, which manages $15 billion. 

 Lower interest rates benefit companies and consumers because they lower borrowing costs, and spur spending and investments. But investors' fears about escalating violence, sliding profits and the weakening economy are overshadowing the Fed's campaign to jump-start economic activity. 

 "Those three issues overshadow the positive effects of the continued Fed rate cutting," said Erik Gustafson, portfolio manager at Stein Roe & Farnham, which oversees $22 billion. "We have a crisis in confidence right now, and until that confidence is rebuilt, until we see a lower level of fear, the markets are going to continue to struggle." 

 The Dow Jones industrial average slipped 23 points, or 0.27 percent, to 8,813, after rising 0.6 percent earlier in the day. Aircraft giant Boeing Co., up $1.24 at $33.64, helped lift the blue-chip Dow after saying it will sell 30 of its 737 jetliners to China in a deal valued at about $1.6 billion. 

 The Nasdaq Composite Index lost 5 points, or 0.35 percent, to 1,475, after climbing 1.6 percent earlier in the day. Microsoft Corp., up 50 cents at $52.29, helped lead the software sector higher and boosted the tech-packed index. 

 The broader Standard & Poor's 500 Index was down 3 points, or 0.36 percent, at 1,034. 

 Technology shares were little changed despite a warning by Compaq Computer Corp. that the weakening economy would push the computer maker into a quarterly loss. Compaq's forecast highlighted Corporate America's sliding earnings, which are expected to tumble more than 20 percent in the third quarter, making it the worst quarter in a decade. 

 Earnings tracking firm Thomson Financial/First Call said earnings for the S&P 500 companies are still expected to grow 8.9 percent in the final quarter and by 2.9 percent in the first quarter of 2002. 

 Compaq slipped 36 cents to $7.97, ranking as the most active on the New York Stock Exchange. The No. 2 personal computer maker said the weak economy, its own merger plans with Hewlett-Packard Co. and the chaos following the attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon converged to form "the perfect storm" with a quarterly loss now expected. 

 The Fed said it was poised to lower borrowing costs again to avert the growing threat of a recession in the aftermath of the attacks that left thousands presumed dead. The Fed said the attacks "significantly heightened uncertainty" in the weakened U.S. economy. Many economists believe the world's biggest economy already has slipped into recession. 

 Most government data have yet to reflect the fallout from the attacks, but signs of economic disruptions abound. Companies have announced steep layoffs, while private surveys point to waning consumer confidence. 

 Experts say Fed easing will eventually boost the economy and the market, but the string of cuts has left stocks cold so far. In the six months after the first cut in early January, the Standard & Poor's 500 fell 8.4 percent, its worst six-month performance after the start of an easing cycle in some 50 years, according to research firm MarketHistory.com. The S&P 500 has fallen about 20 percent this year. 

 "I think that it's going to be a positive for the markets," said Paul Cherney, a market analyst at S&P Marketscope. "I do not expect to see a table-pounding bullish rally. I think they're done with 50-basis-point moves. They've done 100 basis points in two weeks and they've flooded the system with liquidity." 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m11 : Equity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   ANDocument lba0000020011002dxa207gzo  



 HD U.S. stocks slip as Fed cuts rate for ninth time.    WC342 words   PD2 October 2001   ET20:28   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 Reuters Limited
   LP NEW YORK, Oct 2 (Reuters) - Stocks teetered near unchanged, erasing modest gains, in mid-afternoon trading on Tuesday after the Federal Reserve ratcheted down borrowing costs by a half percentage point in its ninth interest-rate cut this year to revive the nation's ailing economy. 

 Stocks crept higher seconds following the decision and then eased. The blue-chip Dow Jones industrial average shed 9.47 points, or 0.11 percent, to 8,827.36, after rising 0.6 percent earlier in the day. The technology-packed Nasdaq Composite Index held a meager gain of 0.77 points, or 0.05 percent, at 1,481.23 after climbing 1.6 percent earlier in the day. The broader Standard & Poor's 500 Index lost 1.43 points, or 0.14 percent, to 1,037.12. 
   TD The central bank cut interest rates by a half percentage point for the second time in just over two weeks in the wake of the Sept. 11 attacks that decimated the World Trade Center, slammed the Pentagon and left thousands presumed dead. The latest reduction brings the federal funds overnight lending rate to 2.5 percent - a 39-year-low - from 3 percent. 

 The nation's economic troubles have deepened since the attacks, leading many to believe the world's biggest economy has slipped into recession. Most government data have yet to reflect the fallout from the attacks, but signs of economic disruptions abound. Companies have announced steep layoffs, while private surveys point to waning consumer confidence. 

 Experts say Fed easing will eventually boost the economy and the market, but the string of cuts has left stocks cold so far. In the six months after the first cut in early January, the Standard & Poor's 500 .SPX) fell 8.4 percent, its worst six-month performance after the start of an easing cycle in some 50 years, according to research firm MarketHistory.com. The S&P 500 has tumbled about 20 percent this year. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m11 : Equity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   ANDocument lba0000020011002dxa207fga  



 HD TEXT-FOMC statement from Oct 2 meeting.    WC208 words   PD2 October 2001   ET20:25   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 Reuters Limited
   LP WASHINGTON, Oct 2 (Reuters) - The following is the full text of the Federal Open Market Committee's statement following its meeting Tuesday on interest rate policy: 

 "The Federal Open Market Committee decided today to lower its target for the federal funds rate by 50 basis points to 2-1/2 percent. In a related action, the Board of Governors approved a 50 basis point reduction in the discount rate to 2 percent. 
   TD The terrorist attacks have significantly heightened uncertainty in an economy that was already weak. Business and household spending as a consequence are being further damped. Nonetheless, the long-term prospects for productivity growth and the economy remain favorable and should become evident once the unusual forces restraining demand abate. 

 The Committee continues to believe that, against the background of its long-run goals of price stability and sustainable economic growth and of the information currently available, the risks are weighted mainly toward conditions that may generate economic weakness in the foreseeable future. 

 In taking the discount rate action, the Federal Reserve Board approved requests submitted by the Boards of Directors of the Federal Reserve Banks of Boston, New York, Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, St. Louis, Kansas City and San Francisco." 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   ANDocument lba0000020011002dxa207ffy  



 HD UPDATE 4-Fed cuts rates half-point, ready to do more.    BY By Glenn Somerville    WC1,052 words   PD3 October 2001   ET00:00   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 Reuters Limited
   LP WASHINGTON, Oct 2 (Reuters) - The Federal Reserve on Tuesday slashed a key short-term interest rate by a half-percentage point to the lowest level in nearly 40 years and said it was poised to act again as it tries to avert a U.S. recession in the aftermath of the Sept. 11 attacks. 

 The policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee cut the federal funds rate governing overnight interbank loans to 2.5 percent, its ninth cut this year and the second in just over two weeks, bringing the rate to its lowest level since May 1962, during the Kennedy administration. 
   TD The more symbolic discount rate, which applies to emergency Fed loans to banks, dropped a matching amount to 2.0 percent. 

 In a statement explaining the move, the Fed said the devastating attacks on New York and Washington, which left nearly 6,000 dead or missing, "significantly heightened uncertainty" in the already weakened U.S. economy. 

 Financial markets were heartened by the Fed action, which accorded with Wall Street expectations. 

 The Dow Jones industrial average added 113.76 points, or 1.29 percent, to close at 8,950.59 while the high tech-laden Nasdaq composite index closed ahead 11.87 points at 1,492.33. 

 Prices for U.S. Treasury bonds also climbed. 

 The Fed move highlighted the severity of the risk the world's largest economy now runs of falling into its first recession - defined as two quarters of economic contraction - since the downturn of mid-1990 to March 1991. 

 BLOOM OFF THE ROSE 

 The record expansion since then has created tens of millions of jobs and added to American prosperity, and the Fed on Tuesday tried to offer shaken consumers some reassurance about the future in its statement. 

 "Nonetheless, the long-term prospects for productivity growth and the economy remain favorable and should become evident once the unusual forces restraining demand abate," the Fed said in its statement explaining the rate decision. 

 After the cut, the fed funds rate is below the 2.7 percent annual rate of increase in a widely used indicator of consumer prices recorded in August, meaning that the cost of money is cheaper than one measure of inflation. 

 However, this is somewhat deceiving since analysts note that Fed policymakers favor a different inflation gauge - the personal consumption expenditures index in the quarterly gross domestic product report - which suggests so-called real interest rates are actually some distance from zero. The PCE price index rose at a 1.3 percent rate in the second quarter. 

 Business leaders welcomed the cut in borrowing costs. 

 "While the full effects won't be felt for months, today's action will lower debt burdens and increase the purchasing power of the American consumer (and) that, in turn, should give a needed boost to consumer spending," said Jerry Jasinowski, president of the National Association of Manufacturers. 

 PRIMING THE PUMP 

 The latest Fed bid to prime the economic pump comes days before next Saturday's gathering in Washington of finance ministers from the Group of Seven industrial nations - a meeting likely to be dominated by concern a faltering U.S. expansion could drag the global economy into recession. 

 "The plight of the U.S. economy is being felt worldwide," said economist Kurt Karl of New York-based reinsurer Swiss Re. He added that central banks in Canada, Britain and Europe were likely to follow the Fed's action. 

 Earlier on Tuesday, White House Economic Adviser Glenn Hubbard told the Senate Banking Committee the attacks "increase significantly the likelihood that the economy is in a recession." 

 The U.S. central bank has now cut the fed funds rate by 4 full percentage points since the start of the year - one of its most aggressive rate-cutting campaigns in history - but analysts say it still has ample room to keep trimming rates. 

 "It has not been unusual for the 'real' fed funds rate (the nominal rate excluding inflation as measured by the PCE) to be to zero or less in the wake of prior recessions," said economist David Orr of First Union Corp. in Charlotte, N.C.. 

 While the Fed has moved swiftly to ease monetary policy, the Bush administration and Congress still are struggling to come up with a fiscal stimulus package to spur activity. 

 President Bush said after meeting congressional leaders on Tuesday that any measures should be "big enough to get the economy moving in the short run but small enough so that it doesn't affect long-term interest rates." 

 A package worth up $100 billion, including roughly $50 billion in emergency spending already approved, has been discussed, congressional aides said, so that would leave $45 billion to $50 billion for new tax cuts and added spending. 

 Major banks began reducing prime lending rates - charged to their most credit-worthy corporate borrowers - within minutes of the Fed announcement, dropping them to 5.5 percent from 6 percent, an inducement for businesses to borrow. 

 The world's top economy was shaky before the attacks and analysts say the assaults ensured at least a short recession by sapping consumer and business confidence, key since consumer spending drives two-thirds of U.S. economic activity. 

 In its statement, the Fed said the economy still faces a greater risk of weakness than of inflation, a signal that the central bank stood ready to cut rates further. 

 Wall Street economists had widely expected the Fed to make a cut of this magnitude. In a Reuters survey of firms that deal directly with the Fed in the government debt market, 21 of 25 had anticipated a half-percentage point cut. 

 The Fed has moved forcefully since the Sept. 11 attacks to try to cushion the blow to consumer and business confidence and to keep an ample supply of liquidity in the economy. 

 The U.S. central bank cut the federal funds rate a half percentage point on Sept. 17, between regular meetings - a move joined by the United States' key trading partners. 

 And the Fed joined with central banks around the world to pump tens of billions of dollars into the banking system after the attacks to ensure that businesses and consumers would not encounter problems in settling business transactions. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   ANDocument lba0000020011002dxa2076z2  



 CLMMonday's Markets   HD Major Indexes Slip on Worries About Earnings    BY By E.S. Browning    CRStaff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal   WC718 words   PD2 October 2001   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGC1   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 2001, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)
   LP Even the prospect of more interest-rate cuts today wasn't enough to extend last week's stock rally, as investors focused instead on gloomy earnings prospects, nudging the Dow Jones Industrial Average down slightly. 

 Though the Federal Reserve already has cut its target rates eight times this year, "we aren't out of the woods at all," said Ken Sheinberg, head of listed trading at brokerage firm SG Cowen. "You are going to start to hear people say, `It's great that they are cutting rates, but what is it really doing?'" 
   TD Investors expect the Fed to cut its target short-term rates again today, possibly by as much as half a percentage point to 2.5%, with an announcement due at about 2:15 p.m. Eastern time. But amid uncertainty about what the Fed will do and a dismal outlook for earnings, trading levels yesterday fell off. On the New York Stock Exchange and the Nasdaq Stock Market, trading volume was at its lowest level since stock trading resumed following the terrorist attacks and was below the average level for the year thus far. 

 All of the major indexes rebounded from early-day slides, but none was able to erase all its early losses. Beleaguered technology stocks took the hardest hit, led by chip makers. The Nasdaq Composite Index, dominated by tech stocks, dropped 1.22%, or 18.34 points, to 1480.46. 

 "Defensive" stocks such as drug makers, whose sales keep growing even during economic downturns, kept the Dow industrials from falling significantly. The blue-chip index finished down just 10.73 points, or 0.12%, at 8836.83. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, heavy in drug makers and other defensive stocks, fell 0.23%, or 2.39 points, to 1038.55. 

 Treasury bonds rallied in anticipation of another Fed rate cut; lower target rates make existing bonds more valuable. The dollar was mixed. 

 Given that the Fed has been cutting interest rates since early January and that another rate cut today is widely anticipated, investors and traders said any rate cut might not give the market the same jolt as some past cuts. 

 "I don't think it is crucial at this point," said Tim Morris, chief investment officer at New York money-management group Bessemer Trust. A rate cut may give investors a psychological boost, and any failure to cut rates might shock the markets. But interest rates aren't the problem any longer, many investors believe. 

 "The cost of money isn't keeping people from doing business. The market is looking for some kind of handle on the earnings outlook," Mr. Morris said. 

 After the end of regular trading hours, investors got another earnings shock, as Compaq Computer warned that third-quarter results would fall well short of its previous expectations. Compaq fell 6% in after-hours trading. That could affect tech stocks again today. 

 "I've got to believe that the next three or four weeks are going to be filled" with bad news on the earnings front, said Tim Heekin, director of trading at San Francisco brokerage firm Thomas Weisel Partners. "I think the earnings picture is probably going to have more of an impact than the Fed cut." 

 Economic news out yesterday, such as stronger-than-expected September manufacturing numbers and weaker-than-expected consumer spending in August, had only minor effects on stocks, traders said. 

 Outside the U.S., stocks declined in dollar terms. The Dow Jones World Stock Index, excluding U.S. stocks, fell 0.53%, or 0.61 point, to 114.43. 

 In major U.S. market action: 

 Stocks retreated. On the Big Board, where 1.17 billion shares traded, 1,297 stocks rose and 1,867 fell. 

 Bonds gained. The 10-year Treasury note rose 13/32, or $4.06 for each $1,000 invested. The yield, which moves inversely to price, fell to 4.538%. The 30-year bond was up 25/32 to yield 5.372%. 

 The dollar was mixed. Late in New York, it traded at 120.27 yen, up from 119.44, while the euro rose against the dollar to 91.71 cents from 91.15. 
   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | eec : European Union | m11 : Equity Markets | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nsum : News Digest | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations   REasiaz : Asia | easiaz : Eastern Asia | jap : Japan | namz : North America | usa : United States   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument j000000020011002dxa20000d  



 HD Asia set to follow Fed, but some doubt the point.    BY By Jennifer Chen    WC747 words   PD1 October 2001   ET04:32   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 Reuters Limited
   LP SINGAPORE, Oct 1 (Reuters) - Most Asian central banks are ready to take interest rates to the chopping block assuming the Federal Reserve delivers a widely expected easing in U.S. policy when it meets on Tuesday. 

 But analysts say it's a "damned if you do, damned if you don't" choice for many since those that cut will not see much difference in their sputtering economies given stubbornly laggard domestic demand. And those that don't may undermine market confidence. 
   TD "Policy measures probably have not helped much in the last year or so given the nature of the global economic downturn," said Andrew Fung, Head of Treasury at Rabobank in Singapore. 

 "The problem is if they don't ease, they send the wrong signal to the market ... If there is anything to be gained from easing, it would show that the central banks at least recognise that economies are weak," he argued. 

 Economists are expecting the Fed to cut its federal funds rate for the ninth time this year at its October 2 meeting to boost an economy many fear has slipped into recession after the September 11 attacks. Another cut would take the rate, currently at three percent, to its lowest levels since the early 1960s. 

 THOSE THAT CUT 

 The last Fed cut on September 17 came inter-meeting and prompted Japan, Hong Kong, Taiwan, Korea, and, even policy laggard, Malaysia to lower interest rates. 

 Australia resisted the temptation but the Reserve Bank meets on Tuesday and much of the market there is betting it will follow a Fed move with a 25-basis-point easing of its own. 

 Also on the starting grid for easings are Hong Kong, Taiwan and Korea. 

 Blessed with stable currencies, low inflation and miniscule external debt burdens, analysts say these central banks have enough breathing space in their monetary policies to ease rates. 

 Moreover, growth is the main issue here. Taiwan is bracing for its first ever full-year contraction in GDP. Korea dropped its full-year GDP growth target to 2-3 percent from 4-5 percent. And Hong Kong is expected to revise down its 2001 forecast again, after cutting it to one percent from three percent in August. 

 Still, many doubt whether more monetary easing will produce the desired effect of boosting domestic demand given low consumer confidence and appetite for risk, and, in the case of Taiwan, local banks that are just unwilling to lend. 

 "It's questionable whether easing works. Liquidity has been ample in Asia all year long, but this additional liquidity has not sparked demand," said Bill Belchere, Managing Director of Asian Economics and Fixed Income Strategy at Merrill Lynch in Singapore. 

 "Essentially, what we've got now is that we are going to be putting more liquidity in the system in a worse global and regional situation. It's setting up a recovery somewhere down the road, but the first move is down," he said. 

 THOSE THAT WON'T, FOR NOW 

 Indonesia and the Philippines are considered unlikely to slice rates immediately as they are both battling massive foreign debt and weak currencies, not to mention inflation in the Philippines. 

 "If the internal situations improve in Indonesia and Thailand then you can have substantial falls in interest rates because they really haven't fallen that much in the year to date," said Merrill Lynch's Belchere. 

 But political instability - the bugbear for these countries - has been lurking as a possible U.S. strike against Afghanistan could stir up Muslim separatist groups in the Philippines and ignite the fervour of Indonesia's Muslim radicals. 

 Curiously, Thailand has proved a wild card recently as to whether it may ease rates. 

 The country has been swimming against the tide of global easing, with the government arguing that rates were low enough already and leading to capital outflows. Indeed, the Bank of Thailand actually hiked rates in July, and has since said it would not consider lowering them. 

 However, the BOT hinted on Wednesday that a cut in local money market rates may come if U.S. rates and the London Interbank Offered Rate fell further. 

 "Thailand will look at the domestic situation. But they also take a strong view on the U.S.-Thai interest rate differential. So a Fed cut could be a way they justify reversing their hike," said Steve Brice, treasury economist at Standard Chartered Bank in Singapore. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REasia :  | asiaz : Asia | namz : North America | usa : United States   ANDocument lba0000020011001dxa100tsr  
 Page 1 of 1      2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.


 

 Page 1      2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.

