 


 HD BBK'S HEINKE SEES SHORT US SLOWDOWN, NO REASON FOR ECB MOVE.    WC608 words   PD1 February 2001   ET18:23   SNMarket News International   SCMARNEW   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001. Market News International, Inc.
   LP DUESSELDORF (MktNews) - The interest rate cuts already put in place by the Federal Reserve, combined with the tax cuts planned by the Bush administration, will ensure that the U.S. economic slowdown is short-lived, Bundesbank Governing Council member Eberhard Heinke said Thursday. 

 But Heinke, in a speech here, said there was no reason at the moment for the European Central Bank to follow the Fed's lead and cut interest rates. 
   TD "At the moment (world) economic development is dominated by the economic slowing in the U.S. but this slowing will not last long because of the recent interest rate cuts by the Federal Reserve and the tax cuts planned by the new Bush administration," Heinke said. "These (actions) will give a new boost to U.S. growth, and in turn to global growth, in the short term." 

 "But at the same time I see no reason for the ECB to shift from its (current) "quiet hand" policy course," Heinke added. 

 Heinke does not have a direct say in the ECB's interest rate policy but as a member of the Bundesbank council does advise Bundesbank President Ernst Welteke, who sits on the ECB's policy making Governing Council. 

 In other comments, Heinke said that the European Central Bank's (ECB) forex interventions last autumn played an important role in the euro's turnaround, a view in sharp contrast to the Bundesbank's traditionally disapproving stance on interventions on foreign exchange markets. 

 "The euro's foreign exchange rate has clearly improved. This is partly due to changing growth differential between the United States and the euro area. But (ECB) policy also played an important role in the euro's trend-reversal," said Heinke, who is also head of the regional central bank of North Rhine-Westphalia. 

 "At the end of September (2000) the ECB in a joint action with other major central banks intervened for the first time on foreign exchange markets in favour of the euro. At the beginning of November the ECB again intervened repeatedly in the markets. With those (actions) the ECB showed its firm determination to follow up its words on market overreaction with actions. The ECB's action was an essential contribution to the euro's turnaround," Heinke said. 

 Turning to inflation, Heinke said that there are no signs now of sustained inflationary tendencies in the euro area. 

 In this context, Heinke praised the monetary policy of the ECB, noting that the central bank's 225 basis points in interest rate hikes since November 1999 "were necessary and important decisions to strengthen confidence in price stability" in the euro zone. 

 The main reason for last year's acceleration in inflation was the rise in oil prices and the euro's weakness, he noted. 

 "The inflation rate in the euro area significantly exceeded the 

 ECB's (inflation) limit of 2.0% (in 2000). However, I admit that 

 monetary policy was in a extremely difficult environment in light of the 

 oil price rises and the euro's depreciation," Heinke said. 

 Nevertheless, Heinke urged the ECB to meet its inflation target 

 this year. "The ECB's strict inflation target of 2.0% must be reached or rates must fall below," he said. 

 In other remarks, Heinke also said that fiscal policies in the euro area must be watched closely. "Despite efforts in Germany as well as in other euro area countries to consolidate their budgets, there is still the need to watch fiscal policies in a critical manner," he said. 

 -Berlin bureau: -49-30-22620580; email: mschmitz@marketnews.com 

 [TOPICS: M$X 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | e52 : Euro Zone/Currency | ecat : Economic News | eec : European Union | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations   REeurz : Europe | gfr : Germany | namz : North America | usa : United States | weurz : Western Europe   IPCDUESSELDORF   ANDocument marnew0020010713dx2100765  



 HD REPEAT-POLL-As U.S. economy sags, more Fed rate cuts expected.    BY By Marjorie Olster    WC547 words   PD1 February 2001   ET06:21   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 Reuters Limited
   LP NEW YORK, Jan. 31 (Reuters) - A growing number of top Wall Street firms expect the Federal Reserve to press its campaign to stave off a recession with another aggressive interest rate cut by March, a new Reuters poll found on Wednesday. 

 A survey of the 25 primary dealers of U.S. government securities found all but one firm expected another rate cut at or before Fed's next policy-setting meeting on March 20. 
   TD The other 24 were evenly split between forecasts for a half-point and a quarter-point cut in the key federal funds rate on overnight bank lending. In the last Reuters poll on Jan. 25, 19 dealers predicted a quarter-point cut in March, one firm called for a half-point drop and five saw no change. 

 For the second time in one month, the policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) on Wednesday cut both the rates it controls by half a point, bringing fed funds from 6.0 to 5.5 percent and the discount rate from 5.5 to 5.0 percent. The previous cut on Jan. 3 was???eduled Fed meetings. 

 Those were the most dramatic cuts in U.S. borrowing costs in a single month since December, 1991, when the country was struggling to pull out of a recession. 

 With the economy slowing much more dramatically than most had anticipated, a number of economists saw a fyzzed would feel an urgent enough need to move again between meetings, as it did earlier this month.???oing at least to 5.0 percent on fed funds and we are going to get there faster than we thought before," said David Resler, chief economist at Nomura Securities International in New York "I think the odds of an inter-meeting cut are 50-50." 

 The Fed's announcement on Wednesday said the threat of an economic slump required a "rapid and forceful response," vowing to do even???anufacturing. 

 On a positive note, the Fed said inflation remained contained, signaling there were virtually no hurdles to easing monetary policy further. 

 "It's very clear to me that the Fed is quite concerned about the degree and severity of this slowdown and is willing to do whatever is necessary if the signs point to further weakness," Resler said. 

 Of the 25 firms who deal directly with the Fed in money market operations, 22 forecast a fed funds rate of 5.0 percent or lower by the middle of this year, compared to 18 in the prior poll. 

 The Fed's latest move came hours after the government said the pace of growth fell sharply in the final quarter of 2000 to the slowest clip in 5-1/2 years, a 1.4 percent annual pace. 

 Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan told U.S. lawmakers last week that growth was "probably very close to zero" right now. 

 "We think that they're going to continue to ease aggressively," said Jeffrey Palma, economist at UBS Warburg in Stamford, Conn. 

 "We're looking for a 50-basis-point cut in March, in part because we think that growth in the first quarter is going to be quite weak, down about 1.0 percent." 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   ANDocument lba0000020010713dx2105z5g  



 HD UPDATE 1-Fed felt in Dec rate cut might be needed soon.    WC443 words   PD1 February 2001   ET20:53   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 Reuters Limited
   LP WASHINGTON, Feb 1 (Reuters) - Federal Reserve policymakers agreed late last year they might have to cut U.S. interest rates sharply and soon to counter an abrupt slowdown in the economy, but they weren't quite ready to do so at the time. 

 Members of the Federal Open Market Committee felt they lacked enough evidence to pull the trigger last December, but by Jan. 3 agreed unanimously that "prompt and forceful policy action sooner and larger than expected by financial markets" was needed, according to minutes from their Dec. 19 policy meeting and a Jan. 3 conference call, released on Thursday. 
   TD Even though a "few" members of the rate-setting FOMC wanted to cut rates right away, "they could accept a delay in light of prevailing uncertainties about the prospective performance of the economy," the minutes said. 

 As usual, the minutes did not specify how many or which members of the group - which includes the five executive governors and presidents of regional Fed banks who vote on a rotating basis - were pushing for an immediate rate cut. 

 In the end, the Fed held rates steady in December but issued a clear warning in its so-called "statement of risks" that an excessive slowdown was the main risk, a sharp shift from its previous stance that inflationary overheating was the key threat to the record expansion, now in its tenth year. 

 "The revised statement of risks...could strengthen expectations regarding future monetary policy easing to an extent that was difficult to predict and could generate sizable reaction in financial markets," policymakers agreed in December. 

 On Jan. 3, the Fed slashed short-term interest rates a half percentage point in a relatively rare intermeeting move - the first since late 1998 - that surprised global markets and briefly sent U.S. stock markets soaring. 

 "Information that had become available since the December meeting tended to confirm that the economic expansion had continued to weaken," the conference call minutes showed. 

 The January move was followed by a rapid-fire additional half-point cut on Wednesday this week, slashing the key federal funds overnight bank lending rate to 5.5 percent from 6 percent. But the Fed this week continued to stand by its warning that it was ready to cut rates further if necessary. 

 At their December session, policymakers noted the economy had slowed significantly, albeit from an "unsustainably high" and potentially inflationary pace earlier in 2000. 

 That had helped keep inflation in check, a factor that Fed policymakers agreed would ease the path toward swift interest-rate cuts if the economic picture continued to darken. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   ANDocument lba0000020010713dx2105x0x  



 HD UPDATE 2-Fed felt in Dec U.S. rate cut might be needed soon.    BY By Glenn Somerville    WC683 words   PD1 February 2001   ET23:02   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 Reuters Limited
   LP WASHINGTON, Feb 1 (Reuters) - Federal Reserve policymakers agreed late last year they might have to cut U.S. interest rates sharply and soon to counter an abrupt slowdown in the economy, but they weren't quite ready to do so at the time. 

 Most members of the central bank's Federal Open Market Committee felt they lacked enough evidence to pull the trigger last December. By Jan. 3, however, they agreed unanimously that "prompt and forceful policy action sooner and larger than expected by financial markets" was needed. 
   TD The Fed on Thursday issued minutes from the FOMC's Dec. 19 policy meeting as well as a Jan. 3 conference call, showing policymakers were growing worried as 2000 drew to a close but were still uncertain how steep a downturn was developing. 

 "Those few members who expressed a preference for easing at this meeting believed that, with unit labor costs and inflation expectations contained, enough evidence of further weakness already existed to warrant immediate action," the minutes from Dec. 19 showed. REMAIN ON ALERT 

 Nonetheless, "they could accept a delay in light of prevailing uncertainties about the prospective performance of the economy," the minutes said, provided the FOMC was ready to act promptly "including the possibility of an easing move early in the intermeeting period" if the economy kept weakening. 

 As usual, the minutes did not specify how many or which members of the group - which includes the five executive governors and presidents of regional Fed banks who vote on a rotating basis - were pushing for an immediate rate cut. 

 In the end, the Fed held rates steady in December but issued a clear warning in its so-called "statement of risks" that an excessive slowdown was the main risk, a sharp shift from its previous stance that inflationary overheating was the key threat to the record expansion, now in its 10th year. 

 "The revised statement of risks...could strengthen expectations regarding future monetary policy easing to an extent that was difficult to predict and could generate sizable reaction in financial markets," policymakers agreed in December. 

 On Jan. 3, the Fed slashed short-term interest rates a half percentage point in a relatively rare intermeeting move - the first since late 1998 - that caught global markets by surprise and briefly sent U.S. stock markets soaring. 

 "Information that had become available since the December meeting tended to confirm that the economic expansion had continued to weaken," the conference call minutes said. 

 Among troubling signs cited in the minutes was an "exceptionally soft" manufacturing sector burdened by bulging stocks of unsold new cars and other goods as well as a lackluster Christmas shopping season. MANUFACTURING SECTOR IN RECESSION 

 Fresh evidence that the nation's manufacturing sector, which accounts for about one-fifth of the national economy, has slid into recession emerged on Thursday. The National Association of Purchasing Management said its index of activity contracted for a sixth straight month in January as orders weakened and inventories grew. 

 The Fed's shock Jan. 3 rate cut was followed by a rapid-fire additional half-point trim on Wednesday this week, slashing the key federal funds overnight bank lending rate to 5.5 percent from 6 percent. 

 The Fed this week continued to stand by its warning that it was ready to cut rates further if necessary, repeating its warning that the key threat to the economy came from excessive weakness in measures like business investment and consumer spending. 

 At their December session, policymakers noted the economy had slowed significantly, albeit from an "unsustainably high" and potentially inflationary pace earlier in 2000. 

 That was helping keep inflation in check, a factor that Fed policymakers agreed eased the path toward swift interest-rate cuts if the economic picture continued to darken. 

 The Fed said again this week that "with inflation contained" it remained ready for a "rapid and forceful response" that financial markets read as a clear sign that policymakers were poised to whatever necessary to keep the expansion on track. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States | usdc : Washington DC   ANDocument lba0000020010713dx2105wwm  



 HD Psychology Test: Latest Fed Rate Cut Combats a Contagion Of Low Confidence --- Amid New Signs of Gloom, Anxiety About Recession Could Be Self-Fulfilling --- The Role of `Animal Spirits'    BY By Greg Ip and Nicholas Kulish    CRStaff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal   WC1,962 words   PD1 February 2001   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGA1   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 2001, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP With yesterday's half-point interest rate cut, Federal Reserve Board Chairman Alan Greenspan is hoping to lift the nation's economic spirits before they pull the economy into recession. 

 Together with another half-point cut earlier this year, the Fed's actions mark the central bank's most aggressive easing move since 1982. But there's a key difference between now and 19 years ago. Back then, the central bank was struggling to revive an economy that had fallen into deep recession, with unemployment rates near the double digits. This time around, Mr. Greenspan is administering medicine to a patient who's still showing remarkable health, including a jobless rate that, at 4%, is near a 30-year low. 
   TD More than usual, the Fed chief appears to be engaged in a game of psychology, struggling less to revive a moribund economy than to restore a sense of confidence to the nation's consumers and businesses. He remains convinced that the New Economy is for real, and that it promises above-average economic growth in the years ahead. But recent surveys show that many consumers and businesses have lost that faith. 

 New evidence of their gloom came on Tuesday, when the Conference Board reported that consumer confidence had slid to a four-year low, taking its biggest hit since the 1990-91 recession. The survey showed that consumers have yet to actually feel much pain. But they fear worse times ahead. The week before, the same New York-based research group reported that business confidence had hit its lowest point since 1980. 

 "Consumer and business confidence has eroded further, exacerbated by rising energy costs that continue to drain consumer-purchasing power and press on business profit margins," the Federal Open Market Committee said, in a statement that accompanied yesterday's cut to 5.5% from 6% in its target for the federal-funds rate. "Partly as a consequence, retail sales and business spending on capital equipment have weakened appreciably. . . . Taken together, and with inflation contained, these circumstances have called for a rapid and forceful response of monetary policy." 

 The Fed's actions are aimed at Americans like Tim Bice, who owns his own small construction firm in Waseca, Minn. Mr. Bice has been contemplating starting a new business that doesn't experience the winter lulls that construction does. He's thinking about manufacturing homes indoors that can then be transported to a home site, in any season. He even located a place to start his business -- an empty radio factory. But in recent months, his enthusiasm for the project has waned. Business remains good, he says; if anything, he got to bid on building more new houses than was usual for January. But the outlook, he fears, is bleak. "On the news every night, all these layoffs, people downsizing, everybody is talking recession, recession," he says. 

 Fear of a recession can quickly bring on the real thing. "Animal spirits," the British economist John Maynard Keynes once wrote, can hold the key to important economic variables, such as business investment. 

 And new numbers out yesterday show that investment did drop in last year's fourth quarter. The government reported that the quarter's real, or inflation-adjusted, growth in gross domestic product slipped to an annual rate of 1.4%, its slowest pace since 1995. Household consumption, which makes up two-thirds of total economic spending, advanced at a respectable 2.9%. But business investment on equipment and software actually fell at a 5% rate -- a dramatic reversal from 21% growth in the first quarter of 2000. A big December drop reported last week in orders for capital goods, excluding aircraft and defense, suggests the capital retrenchment isn't over. 

 That's being felt by companies like Cisco Systems Inc., the giant Internet-gear maker in San Jose, Calif. "In November, when we first started to see a slowdown, we thought it would be a blip -- it looked like it wouldn't affect us," Cisco Chief Executive John Chambers said yesterday, according to Dow Jones Newswires. "But then in early December it was obvious that things were slowing down with many of our customers much faster than people anticipated. I became concerned when the Fed didn't move, but now they're moving." 

 The slowdown in investment is troubling for three reasons, says Joshua Feinman, chief economist at Deutsche Asset Management in New York. First, it subtracts directly from total spending in the economy. Second, as companies cut back, suppliers of capital goods slash output and jobs, and their stock prices fall -- unsettling both employees and consumers. Third, and perhaps most important, if businesses slow their investment spending, that could undercut the rapid growth in productivity that has fueled hopes for above-average economic growth in the decade ahead. 

 Many economists, including William Dudley, head of U.S. economic research at Goldman Sachs in New York, think Mr. Greenspan's rapid action now means a recession is less than a 50% probability. The Jan. 3 surprise cut -- which came between meetings of the FOMC, instead of at one of the committee's regularly scheduled gatherings -- helped stocks and corporate bonds turn in a healthy January performance. That makes it easier for companies to issue securities to fund new investment, and it makes holders of the securities feel wealthier and more inclined to spend. 

 "You don't want [confidence] to break," says Mr. Dudley. "But the financial markets suggest we're not at that breaking point." Mr. Dudley argues that maintaining confidence is the key to keeping a temporary slowdown from snowballing into a more serious recession. Since World War II, the unemployment rate has never gone up more than 0.33 percentage point during any period of economic growth, except during one strike-affected period, he notes. But in a recession, it has never gone up less than 1.9 percentage points. Once unemployment starts rising, it can be hard to stop. 

 For all the talk of consumer confidence, business confidence may be just as critical at this juncture, and it is eroding even faster. When the key decision makers at the nation's largest corporations are feeling pessimistic, outlays by businesses for new equipment -- once a major driver of growth -- suffer. 

 Last week, the Conference Board said that in the fourth quarter of 2000 CEO confidence plunged by its largest amount ever -- to levels not seen since 1980. CEOs' expectations for conditions in their own industries six months from now fell to the lowest level since the survey began in 1976. Lynn Franco, who oversees the survey, says executives are quicker to shift their views on the economy than the average consumer. "They generally tend to be a little more pessimistic," she says. 

 "The economy has decelerated so rapidly it has created enormous uncertainty in the minds of CEOs" and chief financial officers, says Richard Berner, chief U.S. economist at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter. That's prompted belt-tightening at many companies. 

 At discount brokerage firm Charles Schwab Corp., for instance, where sagging revenue has taken its toll, that means a cutback in all planned discretionary expenses. Among its cost-cutting measures, Schwab, which is based in San Francisco, already has announced a hiring freeze, and has told some employees to take several Fridays off as vacation days. "We had to look at all nonessential projects and other areas within the company where we could either delay or put off costs," says spokesman Greg Gable. "We're looking at the more mundane areas, too, like limiting travel wherever possible." Similar cutbacks are happening in other industries. 

 Jerry Jasinowski, president of the National Association of Manufacturers, says capital spending is one of the first lines of defense against falling profitability: "Once businesses get in the mindset of cutting capital spending one quarter, they're not going to turn around on a dime the next quarter, particularly in view of the inventory overhang and high energy prices." 

 In recent weeks, the European Central Bank has constantly spoken of "increasing uncertainty" from the U.S. economic slowdown and its impact on the rest of the world. Its governing council gathers for a regular meeting today, though it hasn't indicated any plans to change rates. "There are no signals yet that we should change our monetary policy," Ernst Welteke, an ECB council member, told reporters over the weekend, but an additional half-percentage-point Fed cut "would certainly trigger a very diligent discussion and evaluation." 

 Yesterday, the Fed also cut the largely symbolic discount rate by half a point to 5%, for a total reduction of one percentage point since the start of the year. In its statement, the Fed said that "the risks are weighted mainly toward conditions that may generate economic weakness in the foreseeable future," which means rates are more likely to fall soon than to rise. Some analysts think the next cut could happen before the FOMC meets again March 20. 

 While there's been little hard data yet on how the economy performed in January, Mr. Greenspan may already have gotten a glimpse of a report coming out today from the National Association of Purchasing Management, which conducts a monthly survey of manufacturing activity. A former Fed insider says the central bank often gets an early look at that report. The Fed chief also may have gotten an early look at some of the data in the January employment report, due out tomorrow. 

 The pace and magnitude of cuts show a shift in tactics by Mr. Greenspan, who has generally preferred to move in small, quarter-point steps in order to avoid startling the markets. The half-point Jan. 3 cut took markets by surprise, and even yesterday's cut, though less than the three-quarters point some had hoped for, was more than the consensus expectation just a few weeks ago. Former Fed Vice Chairman Alan Blinder says Mr. Greenspan is moving more aggressively because "he sees a more pressing need than is normal. Second, the market has gotten better at thinking ahead to what the Fed is going to do. The result is that his previous worry -- that if you move too much at once you'll unsettle the markets -- isn't a worry any more." 

 Whether the Fed's action will be sufficient to revive the economy's sagging spirits remains to be seen. But some were optimistic yesterday. "This half-point cut is exactly what was needed to brake our descent into a general downturn," says Mr. Jasinowski, the NAM president. "The astute timing of the Fed's last two interest-rate moves . . . probably has prevented an economy-wide recession." 

 --- 

 G. Thomas Sims in Frankfurt in contributed to this article. 

 --- 

 Journal Link: Was the Fed's rate cut too much, too little or about right? Participate in the Question of the Day in the online Journal at WSJ.com. 


---
                 GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT
  Here are some of the major components of the gross domestic product
expressed in seasonally adjusted annual rates in billions of chained
(1996) dollars:
                                  3RD QTR.     4TH QTR.
                                    2000         2000
  GDP                             9,369.5      9,401.5
  less: inventory chng               72.5         67.1
  equals: final sales             9,290.9      9,327.3
  Components of Final Sales
  Personal Consumption            6,329.8      6,374.6
  Nonresidential Invest.          1,438.8      1,433.6
  Residential Invest.               362.3        360.0
  Net Exports                      -427.7       -442.2
  Gov't Purchases                 1,578.2      1,589.6
  Implicit Price Deflator             1.6          2.1

   INi3302 : Computers/Electronics | i3303 : Networking | i7902 : Telecommunications | i814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | i831 : Financial Investments | ibnk : Banking/Credit | iinv : Investing/Securities   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1101 : Economic Growth | e1116 : Employment/Unemployment | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | npag : Page-One Story   REnam :  | namz : North America | usa : United States | usca : California | usw : Western U.S.   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument j000000020010711dx21002h8  



 HDFed cut supports euro and sterling.   BYBy ADRIENNE ROBERTS IN LONDON.    WC236 words   PD1 February 2001   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPThe euro and the pound strengthened against the dollar on Thursday morning following Wednesday's half-percentage-point interest rate cut by the US Federal Reserve.

The move brings the Fed's base rate down to 5.5 per cent - half a point below that of the UK. It also substantially narrows the gap between the US and the euro-zone refinancing rate, which is currently at 4.75 per cent.
   TDThe question now on the market's mind is whether the UK and the euro-zone will also relax monetary policy to forestall possible damage from the US economic slowdown. Attention is focused on Thursday's European Central Bank monetary policy meeting and next week's Bank of England meeting. Analysts are divided over what to expect. The majority does not expect a move from the ECB on Thursday, but many economists believe the odds are in favour of a BoE cut next week.

By 1000 GMT, the euro was steady at $0.9430 after a high of $0.9445. Sterling was trading at $1.4730 after a two-week high of $1.4744. The British currency received an added boost from robust manufacturing figures. The UK Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply's overall activity index came in at 52, up from 51.3 in December and its best level since January 2000. 
   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | eec : European Union | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations   REeecz : European Union Countries | eur :  | eurz : Europe | nam :  | namz : North America | uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | weur :  | weurz : Western Europe   IPCMarket News | Corporate Finance | Economic News | Interest Rates | Market Reports | Company News | Economic Indicators | Federal Reserve USA | European Union | Europe | United Kingdom | United States of America | Americas | Pacific Rim | Western Europe | North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument ftcom00020010715dx2100ct5  



 HDNew Issues - Markets back US rate move.   BYBy REBECCA BREAM.    WC411 words   PD1 February 2001   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPThe international bond markets reacted favourably on Thursday to the US Federal Reserve's half-percentage point interest rate cut on Wednesday.

Bankers reported that credit spreads on corporate bonds - especially cyclical sectors - narrowed by up to five basis points.
   TDIn the primary market, banks and other financial institutions dominated issuance, although Ford Motor Credit added $1bn to its $3bn five-year bond deal.

Benign conditions are continuing in the emerging markets, thanks to easing US interest rates, and Latin American borrowers were especially active yesterday.

The Republic of Panama tapped the dollar market, raising $750m - more than had been expected. The 10-year bonds offered a yield of 468 basis points over Treasuries, and the deal is said to satisfy the central American sovereign's international funding requirements for the rest of the year.

Colombia, an active euro borrower, tapped an outstanding E400m 2005 deal to raise an extra E200m. Buenos Aires, the Argentinian province, also came to the market with a E200m deal. Argentina is reported to be planning an imminent return to the markets with a E500m six-year deal.

Investor sentiment towards Argentina has improved dramatically since the country's debt crisis at the end of last year, but the reception of any new deal will be a clear pointer to future borrowing prospects.

In Europe, Estonian ministers are discussing plans for a E100m issue this month to refinance outstanding loans. Lithuania, meanwhile, will embark on roadshows in Europe next week to market a forthcoming euro deal.

Birka Energi, the Swedish power group, is currently on the road to promote a E500m seven-year bond issue, its first international deal in more than a year.

The deal, led by ABN Amro and Schroder Salomon Smith Barney, is expected to price next week to yield between 95 and 98 basis points over swaps. The Baa1/BBB plus-rated company is reported to be receiving a warm reception from European investors.

"This shows what a turnaround there has been in European market sentiment in recent weeks," said Erik Winter, head of European corporate capital markets at SSSB.

In the high-yield market Ono, the largest integrated cable television and broadband provider in Spain, launched a $300m 10-year deal. Schroder Salomon Smith Barney is sole bookrunner.

Ono will price the transaction on Friday, and proceeds will be used to continue the build-out of the company's cable franchise. 
   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REnam :  | namz : North America | usa : United States   IPCMarket News | Bonds | Markets | Economic News | Interest Rates | Economic Indicators | Federal Reserve USA | United States of America | Americas | Pacific Rim | North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument ftcom00020010715dx2100coh  



 HDUS Treasuries lifted by Fed rate cut.   BYBy ABIGAIL RAYNERIN NEW YORK, ARKADY OSTROVSKY IN LONDON AND BAYAN RAHMAN IN TOKYO.    WC489 words   PD1 February 2001   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPGovernment bond prices rose on Thursday as markets around the world digested Wednesday's 50 basis points interest rate cut by the US Federal Reserve.

The 30-year Treasury bond gained a full point earlier on Thursday amid growing concerns that the issue is a dying breed and investors looked on the bright side of a sharp slowdown in the manufacturing sector. By late trade the 10-year note gained 3/16 to 104 15/16, yielding 5.09 per cent, while the 2-year gained 1/32 to 100 11/32 to yield 4.56 per cent. The 30-year Treasury was still in strong demand but off its earlier highs, up 25/32 to 111 19/32, pushing the yield down to 5.45 per cent. The bonds were snapped up after Wednesday's quarterly refunding announcement at which there was some suggestion by the private sector borrowing committee that the final 30-year Treasury bond sale should take place in August.
   TDA further boost to longer-dated issues came from the National Association of Purchasing Management, which said its index of factory activity fell from 44.3 in December to 41.2 in January - the lowest level since March 1991.

"The NAPM data suggest the economy is slowing more decisively than the consensus had anticipated but that the slowdown is disinflationary and that has boosted the long end," said John Lipsky, chief economist at Chase Manhattan. He added that slower growth and less inflation was good for the bond market against a background of the Federal Reserve acting appropriately.

The data also added to hopes of further Fed rate cuts. Expectations were also fuelled by the tone of the Fed's monetary policy committee's announcement after it cut rates on Wednesday, which suggested it was prepared to act quickly and forcefully to prevent a US recession.

In Europe, prices of bonds with longer maturities also rose in response to the US rate cut.

Prices also benefited from the strength of the euro, which rose to a week-high against the dollar.

The 10-year German bund future rose 0.12 to 108.99, while in the cash market the yield on the 10-year German bund fell 1 basis point to 4.787 per cent. However, at the short end of the yield curve, bond prices fell after the European Central Bank left interest rates unchanged.

The yield on the two-year bond rose 1.6 basis points to 4.398 per cent.

Japanese government bond prices were higher yesterday on strong demand at an auction of five-year JGBs.

The Ministry of Finance auctioned Y1,085bn of five-year JGBs with a 0.9 per cent coupon, resulting in a lowest accepted price of 100.06 and an average price of 100.08. 
   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | e21 : Government Finance | e212 : Government Borrowing | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpol : Domestic Politics | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REnam :  | namz : North America | usa : United States   IPCMarkets | Government Borrowing | Government News | Economic News | Market Reports | Economic Indicators | Bonds | Interest Rates | Market News | Federal Reserve USA | United States of America | Americas | Pacific Rim | North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument ftcom00020010715dx2100ccb  



 HDEurope closes lower on tech and telecoms weakness.   BYBy SUMATHI BALA IN LONDON.    WC574 words   PD1 February 2001   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPEuropean bourses ended down on Thursday as sluggishness in technology and telecoms sectors was componded by fears that the US Federal Reserve's further 50-basis-point interest rate cut may not be enough to prevent an economic slowdown.

The Eurotop 300 index fell 13.37 at 1,530.94.
   TDFRANKFURT was off its earlier lows but ended down as disappointing figures from Deutsche Bank weighed on the benchmark index. The Xetra Dax eased 60.40, at 6,735.13 at 1630GMT.

Deutsche Bank's shares were down more than 7 per cent after it reported a 2 per cent fall in fourth-quarter profits and revealed 2,600 job cuts as part of restructuring.

Other technology stocks continued to struggle despite a pick up in the tech-heavy Nasdaq after a wobbly open on Wall Street.

Siemens fell 1.8 per cent, while SAP gave up more than 3 per cent Infineon was 0.9 per cent lower.

Epcos, the electronics component maker, bucked the trend and was 3 per cent higher on the back of strong first-quarter figures, despite cutting its sales outlook.

The Neuer Markt Nemax 50 index was down 3.1 per cent, or 87.05, at 2,708.36.

PARIS followed suit with profit-taking in the telecoms sector undermining the market.

Alcatel, the telecoms equipment maker, was down 0.9 per cent after its price target was cut by Schroder Smith Barney and Lehman Brothers.

Techonology stocks that had rallied on the expectation of a half-point US rate cut, also fell.

Cap Gemini was down 5 per cent and Dassault Systemes eased 6 per cent, while Thomson Multimedia shed more 1.8 per cent.

Other stocks actively traded included Sanofi-Synthelabo, the drugs group, off 3.1 per cent and TF1, the TV company, down 4.1 per cent on the back of a decision by Euronext Paris to adopt free-float weightings for blue chips in which other blue-chip companies hold a large stake.

Accor, the hotel group, lost more than 6 per cent despite reporting positive sales figures.

The CAC 40 closed 98.77 lower at 5,899.72.

AMSTERDAM eased further despite a 10 per cent gain for Corus, the Anglo-Dutch steelmaker. The group announced it was to cut 6,050 jobs in a major overhaul of its operations. The move prompted Credit Suisse First Boston to upgrade the stock to strong buy from buy.

KPN, the telecoms giant, was down 0.8 per cent on a medium-term downgrade from accumulate to neutral from Merrill Lynch.

KLM gained 1.6 per cent after the airline reported an unexpected profit in the third quarter.

The AEX ended 5.94 at 634,04.

LONDON tracked the rest of Europe lower as banks and telecoms sluggishness pushed the blue chip index lower.

The FTSE 100 closed 45.7 lower at 6,251.7, with the junior indices also down.

Standard Chartered led the way, down more than 4.9 per cent. HSBC eased 1.9 per cent and Barclays was 1.6 per cent lower. Software group Sage was down 3.6 per cent, while COLT Telecom lost 3.5 per cent and Vodafone, the UK's biggest stock, eased 1.9 per cent.

Cable and Wirelress put in the weakest performance in FTSE 100, falling 5.8 per cent. 
   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REnam :  | namz : North America | usa : United States   IPCMarket News | Recession &Recovery | Economic News | Interest Rates | Market Reports | Economic Indicators | Federal Reserve USA | United States of America | Americas | Pacific Rim | North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument ftcom00020010715dx2100c7t  



 HDEurope lower on disappointing results.   BYBy SUMATHI BALA IN LONDON.    WC514 words   PD1 February 2001   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPEuropean bourses were trading broadly lower the by the midsession on Thursday amid concern that the US Federal Reserve's further 50 basis point interest rate cut may not be enough to prevent further economic slowdown.

At 1330GMT, the Eurotop 300 index fell 13.37 at 1,530.94.
   TDFRANKFURT was weighed heavily by Deutsche Bank's poor figures. The Xetra index eased 70.17, at 6, 275.0.

Deutsche Bank's shares were down more than 5 per cent after it reported a 2 per cent fall in fourth-quarter profits and revealed 2,600 job cuts as part of restructuring.

Epcos, the electronics component maker, bucked the trend and was 3 per cent higher on the back of strong first-quarter figures, despite cutting its sales outlook.

Technology stocks were boardly lower tracking the tech-heavy Nasdaq's 2.3 per cent fall overnight.

Siemens eased 1.6 per cent, while SAP gave upmore than 2 per cent succumbing to profit-taking following Wednesday's bullish figures. The Neuer Markt Nemax 50 index was down 3.2 per cent, or 91.60, at 2,703.77.

PARIS was trading equally lower dragged down by weakness in technology and telecoms sectors.

Alcatel, the telecoms equipment maker, was down more than 2 per cent after brokers cut its price targets.

Techonology stocks that had priced in the US rate cut also fell. Cap Gemini, Dassault Systeme and Thomson Multimedia eased more than 3 per cent.

Other stocks actively traded included Sanofi-Synthelabo, the drugs group, off over 4 per cent and TF1, the TV company, down 3 per cent on the back of a decision by Euronext Paris to adopt free-float weightings for blue chips in which other blue-chip companies hold a large stake.

Accor, the hotel group lost more than 5 per cent despite reporting positive sales figures.

The CAC 40 was 89.96 lower at 5908.63.

AMSTERDAM eased further despite an 10 per cent gain for Corus, the Anglo-Dutch steelmaker. The group announced it was to cut 6,050 jobs in a major overhaul of its operations. The move prompted Credit Suisse First Boston to upgrade the stock to strong buy from buy.

KPN, the telecoms giant, was down 0.8 per cent on a medium-term downgrade from accumulate to neutral from Merrill Lynch.

KLM gained 1.6 per cent after the airline reported an unexpected profit in the third quarter.

The AEX was down 2.36 at 637,51.

LONDON tracked the rest of Europe lower as banks and telecoms weighed on the benchmark index.

The FTSE 100 was down 37.6 at 3,259.9, with the junior indices equally lower.

Standard Chartered was the worst blue chip perfomer, down more than 4 per cent. HSBC eased 2.4 per cent and Barclays was 2.1 per cent lower.

In the telecoms sector, CMG and Logica shed more than 4 per cent, while Vodafone, the UK's biggest stock, shed more than 1 per cent. 
   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REnam :  | namz : North America | usa : United States   IPCMarket News | Recession &Recovery | Economic News | Interest Rates | Market Reports | Economic Indicators | Federal Reserve USA | United States of America | Americas | Pacific Rim | North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument ftcom00020010715dx2100c52  



 HDEditorial comment - The Fed plays its best card.   WC467 words   PD1 February 2001   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPThe Goldilocks days of theUS economy - not too hot, not too cold but just right - are long gone. Instead, the US Federal Reserve is seeking a monetary policy that is not too loose, not too tight but just enough to avoid a big recession without restarting a boom. Wednesday's half point rate cut was the best balance that could be struck.

Figures released over the past two days have shown that the US is being hit by the double whammy of a slowdown in investment and plummeting consumer confidence.
   TDThree years of double-digit investment growth have been great for productivity and output growth but have left companies with high debt levels and, in some cases, overcapacity. Now, as earnings fall, investment plans are the obvious target for cuts. Yesterday's fourth-quarter gross domestic product figures confirmed this, showing a fall in gross non-residential investment of an annualised 1.5 per cent.

For the moment, the drop is just a correction to a period of unsustainably high growth. But if lower investment persists, it will damage the prospects of the US keeping up its recent record of productivity improvements.

Meanwhile, January's sharp drop in consumer confidence suggests that the fears of Alan Greenspan, Fed chairman, that a slowdown could "breach the fabric of consumer confidence" are already materialising. Although consumer spending is still growing, it looks set to reverse soon.

The combination of lower investment and consumer spending is easily enough to tip the US into a prolonged period of slow growth, even recession. The Fed's aggressive policy response, an interest rate cut of a full percentage point within the space of a month, is aimed at counteracting these powerful forces.

Lower interest rates will be of direct help to overindebted businesses and individuals. They may also raise confidence and cheer the financial markets. It is far from clear, though, whether lower rates can induce already highly indebted individuals and businesses to carry on borrowing and spending, in spite of a slowing economy.

The Fed is also taking a risk that its interest rate cuts will work too well. The markets could start to believe - again - that Mr Greenspan will bail them out of any crisis; confidence could start to recover. The credit expansion of recent years may then return, paving the way for an even sharper correction some months along the line.

However, as the data this week have shown, the risk of a fall into recession is much greater. The Fed has done all it can for now to avert this danger. The effects of this rapid monetary easing are hard to predict; and until the Fed has some idea of the impact, it should be cautious about making any further moves. 
   NSc15 : Performance | c152 : Earnings Projections | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News   REnam :  | namz : North America | usa : United States   IPCComment &Analysis | Economic News | Interest Rates | General News | Economic Indicators | Federal Reserve USA | United States of America | Americas | Pacific Rim | North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument ftcom00020010715dx2100c12  



 HD Euro back above 94 cents    WC405 words   PD1 February 2001   SNAgence France-Presse   SCAFPR   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright 2001) 
   LP TOKYO, Feb 1 (AFP) - The euro regained 94 cents Thursday after US economic growth slumped in the fourth quarter and the Federal Reserve slashed interest rates, with a warning of more cuts to come. 

 The dollar had risen in anticipation of the half-point reduction in US short-term rates announced Wednesday, but lost ground once policymakers under Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan warned that the risk was of "conditions that may generate economic weakness in the foreseeable future." 
   TD New figures showing US gross domestic product (GDP) growth slowed sharply in the fourth quarter of 2000, falling to an annual rate of 1.4 percent from 2.2 percent in the third, also hit the greenback. 

 The euro was the main beneficiary, rising to 0.9406 dollars around 2:00 pm (0500 GMT) in Tokyo, up from 0.9367 dollars in New York and 0.9303 dollars here Wednesday afternoon. 

 Eurozone assets were now more attractive relative to their dollar counterparts, with investors expecting another half-point Fed rate cut in March, said HSBC currency analyst Tsutomu Shirafuji. 

 "The Fed's reaction is coming very quickly," he said. "The euro- dollar market is responding to the short-term interest-rate differential." 

 The Fed lowered its benchmark federal funds rate from 6.0 to 5.5 percent. The European Central Bank, which meets on Thursday, has held its key "refi" refinancing rate steady at 4.75 percent since October. 

 "A sustained rise in the euro still needs an easing from the ECB," DBS bank said in Singapore. 

 Against the yen, the euro also rose to 109.62, up from 108.26 in Tokyo late Wednesday. 

 But the Japanese currency derived no benefit from the dollar's problems, slipping to 116.52-55 yen against the greenback at 2:00 pm, down from 116.48 yen in New York and 116.38 yen in Tokyo late Wednesday. 

 "US economic growth was bad, but investors don't have much incentive to buy the yen either given the weak Tokyo stock market and uncertainty over the Japanese economic outlook ahead of March," said Mitsubishi Trust and Banking dealer Toshihiko Sakai. 

 The Tokyo Stock Exchange's Nikkei-225 index fell 119.56 points, or 0.9 percent, to end Thursday morning at 13,723.99. It has been depressed as companies dump cross-shareholdings before the fiscal year ends on March 31. 

 bur-krn/jit/bro 
   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1101 : Economic Growth | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REasiaz : Asia | easiaz : Eastern Asia | jap : Japan | namz : North America | usa : United States   IPDFood | SEQN: 0081 | Federal Reserve Board   ANDocument afpr000020010709dx2100yhn  



 HD Euro back above 94 cents    WC386 words   PD1 February 2001   SNAgence France-Presse   SCAFPR   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright 2001) 
   LP TOKYO, Feb 1 (AFP) - The euro regained 94 cents Thursday after US economic growth slumped in the fourth quarter and the Federal Reserve slashed interest rates, with a warning of more cuts to come. 

 The dollar had risen in anticipation of the half-point reduction in US short-term rates announced Wednesday, but lost ground once policymakers under Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan warned that the risk was of "conditions that may generate economic weakness in the foreseeable future." 
   TD New figures showing US gross domestic product (GDP) growth slowed sharply in the fourth quarter of 2000, falling to an annual rate of 1.4 percent from 2.2 percent in the third, also hit the greenback. 

 The euro was the main beneficiary, rising to 0.9401 dollars around 11:00 am (0200 GMT) in Tokyo, up from 0.9367 dollars in New York and 0.9303 dollars here Wednesday afternoon. 

 Eurozone assets were now more attractive relative to their dollar counterparts, with investors expecting another half-point Fed rate cut in March, said HSBC currency analyst Tsutomu Shirafuji. 

 "The Fed's reaction is coming very quickly," he said. "The euro- dollar market is responding to the short-term interest-rate differential." 

 The Fed lowered its benchmark federal funds rate from 6.0 to 5.5 percent. The European Central Bank, which meets on Thursday, has held its key "refi" refinancing rate steady at 4.75 percent since October. 

 Against the yen, the euro also rose to 109.59, up from 108.26 in Tokyo late Wednesday. 

 But the Japanese currency derived no benefit from the dollar's problems, slipping to 116.55-58 yen against the greenback at 11:00 am, down from 116.48 yen in New York and 116.38 yen in Tokyo late Wednesday. 

 "US economic growth was bad, but investors don't have much incentive to buy the yen either given the weak Tokyo stock market and uncertainty over the Japanese economic outlook ahead of March," said Mitsubishi Trust and Banking dealer Toshihiko Sakai. 

 The Tokyo Stock Exchange's Nikkei-225 index fell 119.56 points, or 0.9 percent, to end Thursday morning at 13,723.99. It has been depressed as companies dump cross-shareholdings before the fiscal year ends on March 31. 

 tfu/jit/lb 
   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1101 : Economic Growth | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REasiaz : Asia | easiaz : Eastern Asia | jap : Japan | namz : North America | usa : United States   IPDFood | SEQN: 0042 | Federal Reserve Board   ANDocument afpr000020010709dx2100yef  



 HDCURRENCIES &MONEY - Dollar unmoved as Fed cuts rates.   BYBy ADRIENNE ROBERTS and CHRISTOPHER SWANN.    WC663 words   PD1 February 2001   SNFinancial Times   SCFTFT   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPForeign exchange traders gave a muted reaction to the decision by the Federal Reserve to cut rates by 50 basis points.

But traders said the dollar could suffer over the coming sessions.
   TD"There had been some suggestion that the Fed would boost the equity markets with a 75 basis point cut, now the focus will continue to be on the deteriorating economy," said Robert Lynch of BNP Paribas.

The dollar had been under pressure for most of the day, depressed by the continued flow of poor economic figures from the US.

Gross domestic product data showed the US economy growing at a puny annualised rate of 1.4 per cent in the fourth quarter - well below expectations of around 2 per cent.

Most worrying perhaps was the sharp slowdown in investment spending by businesses.

From a rise of 7.7 per cent in the third quarter, business investment fell by 1.5 per cent in the fourth - the sharpest slowdown since 1991.

The Chicago manufacturing purchasing managers index also made fairly grim reading - falling to its lowest level since 1982.

"It is being made painfully apparent that the manufacturing sector is in a deep recession," said Russell Jones, head of currency research at Lehman Brothers.

When added to Tuesday's poor consumer confidence figures, the GDP release caused some in the market to suggest the prospect of a 75 basis point cut in US interest rates.

By middle of London trading, the Fed funds futures - seen as the best gauge of US rate expectations - were pricing in the risk of a 75 basis point fall.

The euro ended London trading at $0.93, half a cent higher on the previous day.

* But while the economic data continued to affect the interest rate futures markets the damage to the dollar was relatively contained.

The euro managed to probe only modestly above $0.93 in early London trading.

Analysts said this reflected the reluctance of investors to write off the US economy just yet.

"There are certainly few who want to take big bets ahead of the FOMC decision and there is always the risk that the non-farm payroll figures on Friday will disappoint," said Tony Norfield, head of currency research at ABN Amro in London.

In addition traders said that the euro continued to labour under the weight of long positions. Many traders were quick to buy into the currency as it surged at the end of last year and are now reluctant to add to these positions.

The latest IMM data from the Chicago Mercantile Exchange showed that these positions had been pared back.

"These should soon be cleared, allowing the euro to move higher," said Mr Norfield. "But for the moment they continue to hold the euro back."

* With the Fed decision out of the way, one question uppermost on European traders' minds is likely to be whether the European Central Bank will follow suit.

The bank holds its fortnightly monetary policy meeting today, but recent comments by ECB board members have suggested a reluctance to ease monetary policy.

"Our central view is that the refinancing rate will remain on hold at 4.75 per cent throughout 2001," said David Page at Investec in London.

But he adds that this view hinges on "a visible recovery" in the US by the second half of 2001. "Without this the slowdown in the global economy will be sharper this year, with the repercussions felt more strongly in the euro area, thus prompting the ECB to cut rates."

Yesterday's slew of euro-zone producer price inflation data all pointed to moderating price pressures. Italian producer price growth registered its first month-on-month decline in two years, with the annual rate slipping to 6.2 per cent from 6.7 per cent. Producer price inflation in France fell to 4.7 per cent from 5.9 per cent. 
   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REnam :  | namz : North America | usa : United States   IPCMarket'sp'News | Markets | Foreign'sp'Exchange'sp'Markets | Economic'sp'News | Interest'sp'Rates | Economic'sp'Indicators | Federal'sp'Reserve'sp'USA | United'sp'States'sp'of'sp'America | Americas | Pacific'sp'Rim | North'sp'America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument ftft000020010715dx21008xl  



 HD Martin says Fed rate cut good news for Canada, U.S.    WC122 words   PD31 January 2001   ET21:39   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 Reuters Limited
   LP OTTAWA, Jan 31 (Reuters) - Wednesday's interest rate cut by the U.S. Federal Reserve is good news both for Canada and the United States, and Canada can "weather the storm" caused by a slowdown south of the border, Finance Minister Paul Martin said on Wednesday. 

 "It is clear that the Fed is prepared to act decisively and that's good news for the United States and it's good news for Canada, " Martin told reporters. "Overall, economists right across the land continue to say that the Canadian economy is going to be able to weather this storm." 
   TD Reuters Toronto Bureau 416-941-8100 e-mail toronto.newsroom@reuters.com). 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REcana : Canada | namz : North America | usa : United States   ANDocument lba0000020010713dx1v07dvw  



 HD TEXT-FOMC statement following Jan 30-31 meeting.    WC295 words   PD31 January 2001   ET20:19   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 Reuters Limited
   LP WASHINGTON, Jan 31 (Reuters) - The following is the full text of the 

 Federal Open Market Committee's statement at the close of its Jan. 30-31 
   TD meeting on interest rate policy: 

 "The Federal Open Market Committee at its meeting today decided to lower 

 its target for the federal funds rate by 50 basis points to 5-1/2 

 percent. In a related action, the Board of Governors approved a 50 basis 

 point reduction in the discount rate to 5 percent. 

 Consumer and business confidence has eroded further, exacerbated by 

 rising energy costs that continue to drain consumer purchasing power and 

 press on business profit margins. Partly as a consequence, retail sales 

 and business spending on capital equipment have weakened appreciably. In 

 response, manufacturing production has been cut back sharply, with new 

 technologies appearing to have accelerated the response of production and 

 demand to potential excesses in the stock of inventories and capital 

 equipment. 

 Taken together, and with inflation contained, these circumstances have 

 called for a rapid and forceful response of monetary policy. The 

 longer-term advances in technology and accompanying gains in 

 productivity, however, exhibit few signs of abating and these gains, 

 along with the lower interest rates, should support growth of the economy 

 over time. 

 Nonetheless, the Committee continues to believe that against the 

 background of its long-run goals of price stability and sustainable 

 economic growth and of the information currently available, the risks are 

 weighted mainly toward conditions that may generate economic weakness in 

 the foreseeable future. 

 In taking the discount rate action, the Federal Reserve Board approved 

 requests submitted by the Boards of Directors of the Federal Reserve

 Banks of New York, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, 

 Minneapolis, Dallas and San Francisco." 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | ntra : Transcript   REnamz : North America | usa : United States | usdc : Washington DC   ANDocument lba0000020010713dx1v07djw  



 HD POLL-As U.S. economy sags, more Fed rate cuts expected.    BY By Marjorie Olster    WC584 words   PD31 January 2001   ET23:57   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 Reuters Limited
   LP NEW YORK, Jan. 31 (Reuters) - A growing number of top Wall Street firms expect the Federal Reserve to press its campaign to stave off a recession with another aggressive interest rate cut by March, a new Reuters poll found on Wednesday. 

 A survey of the 25 primary dealers of U.S. government securities found all but one firm expected another rate cut at or before Fed's next policy-setting meeting on March 20. 
   TD The other 24 were evenly split between forecasts for a half-point and a quarter-point cut in the key federal funds rate on overnight bank lending. In the last Reuters poll on Jan. 25, 19 dealers predicted a quarter-point cut in March, one firm called for a half-point drop and five saw no change. 

 For the second time in one month, the policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) on Wednesday cut both the rates it controls by half a point, bringing fed funds from 6.0 to 5.5 percent and the discount rate from 5.5 to 5.0 percent. The previous cut on Jan. 3 was between scheduled Fed meetings. 

 Those were the most dramatic cuts in U.S. borrowing costs in a single month since December, 1991, when the country was struggling to pull out of a recession. 

 With the economy slowing much more dramatically than most had anticipated, a number of economists saw a fair chance that the Fed would feel an urgent enough need to move again between meetings, as it did earlier this month. 

 "We are going at least to 5.0 percent on fed funds and we are going to get there faster than we thought before," said David Resler, chief economist at Nomura Securities International in New York "I think the odds of an inter-meeting cut are 50-50." 

 The Fed's announcement on Wednesday said the threat of an economic slump required a "rapid and forceful response," vowing to do even more if needed. 

 The decision was based on evidence of further weakening in U.S. confidence, the strain of rising energy costs on consumers and businesses and a sharp cutback in manufacturing. 

 On a positive note, the Fed said inflation remained contained, signaling there were virtually no hurdles to easing monetary policy further. 

 "It's very clear to me that the Fed is quite concerned about the degree and severity of this slowdown and is willing to do whatever is necessary if the signs point to further weakness," Resler said. 

 Of the 25 firms who deal directly with the Fed in money market operations, 22 forecast a fed funds rate of 5.0 percent or lower by the middle of this year, compared to 18 in the prior poll. 

 The Fed's latest move came hours after the government said the pace of growth fell sharply in the final quarter of 2000 to the slowest clip in 5-1/2 years, a 1.4 percent annual pace. 

 Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan told U.S. lawmakers last week that growth was "probably very close to zero" right now. 

 "We think that they're going to continue to ease aggressively," said Jeffrey Palma, economist at UBS Warburg in Stamford, Conn. 

 "We're looking for a 50-basis-point cut in March, in part because we think that growth in the first quarter is going to be quite weak, down about 1.0 percent." 
   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   ANDocument lba0000020010713dx1v07dil  



 HD Stocks mostly lower as markets look beyond Fed rate cut    WC680 words   PD31 January 2001   SNAgence France-Presse   SCAFPR   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright 2001) 
   LP NEW YORK, Jan 31 (AFP) - Stocks ended mostly lower Wednesday as Wall Street looked beyond the half-point rate cut by the Federal Reserve aimed at reinvigorating the now-struggling US economy. 

 The tech-heavy Nasdaq tumbled 65.62 points (2.31 percent) to close at 2,772.73. 
   TD The Dow Jones industrials eked out a gain of 6.16 points (0.06 percent) at 10,887.36 while the broader Standard and Poor's 500 slipped 7.86 points (0.57 percent) to 1,365.87. 

 The Fed announcement of the rate cut came hours after the government said US economic growth had slowed to a pace of 1.4 percent in the fourth quarter, prompting some economists to warn of a downturn in early 2001. 

 After sluggish morning trading, the major indexes alternated between losses and gains in its wake, in an example of a "buy on the rumor, sell on the news" reaction, dealers said. 

 "This is just a little profit-taking," said Michael Lyons, senior trader at Dean Witter. "There was no surprise in the news. We'll see stocks move higher again. The buyers will be back." 

 Cantor Fitzgerald chief market strategist Bill Meehan said investors were now focusing on the Fed's commentary on the move, which had "left the door open" on further easing. 

 The committee said that economic conditions call for a "rapid and forceful response of monetary policy," indicating that it will continue cutting interest rate throughout the first half of the year, analysts said. 

 "Rapid and forceful are the key words," said Mark Vitner economist at First Union Corp. 

 Other dealers said trading may be choppy tomorrow as investors await the next set of important economic data in Friday's unemployment report. 

 Interest-sensitive pharmaceutical and retail stocks ended higher. 

 Merck closed up 1.18 dollars at 82.18 and Johnson and Johnson gaining 1.53 to 93.13. 

 Wal-Mart climbed 3.03 dollars to 56.80 and Home Depot was up 2.20 at 48.20. Sears gained 27 cents to 38.75 and KMart ended up 21 cents at 8.75. 

 Financial stocks were sold off as investors locked in recent gains, dealers said. 

 JP Morgan Chase lost 99 cents to 54.99, Citigroup slipped 23 cents to 55.97 and Bank of America closed down 1.65 dollars at 53.82. 

 AOL Time Warner finished down 1.75 dollars at 52.56 following an analysts conference at which top executives said they were comfortable with estimates that first-quarter earnings will grow by at least 18 pct. 

 Earlier, many investors were puzzled by the company's fourth- quarter earnings release which included an array of confusing figures. 

 Amazon.com slumped 1-5/8 to 17-5/16 on some cautionary new analyst comments following its announcement of a 15 percent cut in its workforce. 

 Applied Materials fell 2-1/8 to 50-5/16 after announcing it expects first-quarter revenues to grow in the 7-10 percent range, below prior guidance. 

 Coca-Cola gained 9 cents to 58. The company reported an in-line fourth-quarter earnings and said it is comfortable with analysts' expectations for full year. 

 Delta Airlines was up 9 cents at 47.22 dollars after a newspaper report that it has started discussions about industry consolidation with Northwest Air Lines, down 9/16 at 24-13/16, and Continental Air Lines, up 99 cents at 52.15. 

 Oil shares were boosted by a positive Prudential Securities note that predicted the sector will benefit from continued high oil and gas prices, with ExxonMobil up 2.17 dollars at 84.15 and Chevron gaining 1.42 at 83.28. 

 Bonds were higher on the indications of weaker US growth. 

 The yield on the 10-year bond slipped to 5.128 percent from 5.222 percent Tuesday and on the 30-year bond to 5.524 percent from 5.589 percent. A drop in yields reflects a rise in bond prices. 

 cf/rl/mdl 
   NSc15 : Performance | c151 : Earnings | c1514 : Earnings Surprises | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPDFinancial | SEQN: 0929   ANDocument afpr000020010709dx1v00y7w  



 HD Fed cuts short-term US interest rates half a point by Nathaniel Harrison ATTENTION - ADDS background ///    WC705 words   PD31 January 2001   SNAgence France-Presse   SCAFPR   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright 2001) 
   LP WASHINGTON, Jan 31 (AFP) - The US Federal Reserve on Wednesday cut its benchmark short-term interest rate by half a point to 5.5 percent in a bid to revive the US economy that finds itself suddenly struggling for air. 

 The decision to cut the federal funds rate, a target figure used by banks making overnight loans among themselves, came at the end of a two-day meeting here of the Fed's policymaking Open Market Committee under the leadership of Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan. 
   TD The committee on January 3, in a surprise move between regularly scheduled meetings, cut the fed funds rate by half a point to six percent. 

 The Fed on Wednesday also decided to lower its largely symbolic discount rate, which the Federal Reserve charges member banks that borrow from it, by half a point to five percent. 

 The committee in a statement warned that current conditions in the United States "may generate economic weakness in the foreseeable future," suggesting to some analysts that additional rate reductions were possible. 

 "Consumer and business confidence has eroded further, exacerbated by rising energy costs that continue to drain consumer purchasing power and press on business profit margins," the statement said. 

 It also cited weaker retail sales and business spending on capital equipment as well as overstocked inventories. 

 "Taken together, and with inflation contained, these circumstances have called for a rapid and forceful response of monetary policy," the committee said. 

 But it also found that advances in technology and productivity showed few signs of petering out. 

 "These gains, along with lower interest rates, should support growth of the economy over time." 

 The rate cut had been widely awaited and anticipated in US corporate circles after Greenspan -- in an unusually frank observation -- told Congress last week that first quarter momentum had likely plummeted to near zero. 

 As the Fed committee was meeting here, two particularly ominous reports emerged confirming that the economy was running out of steam more rapidly than had been feared. 

 The Commerce Department earlier Wednesday said gross domestic product expanded at an annual rate of just 1.4 percent in fourth quarter 2000, down from an already anemic 2.2 percent in the third. Wall Street analysts were expecting growth of two percent in the October-December period. 

 On Tuesday, the Conference Board, a business research group, disclosed that its all-important consumer confidence index tumbled 14.2 points in January to its lowest point since December 1996. 

 Since consumer spending accounts for two thirds of US output, any sharp fall-off in confidence could be seriously destabilizing, a danger alluded to by Greenspan last week. 

 Wednesday's aggressive action on interest rates was aimed at emboldening worried consumers and making it easier for businesses to borrow money, expand output and increase payrolls. 

 Moments after the Fed announcement, the Bank of America said it was cutting its prime rate 8.50 percent from nine percent, effective Thursday. 

 Many financial institutions were expected to follow the lead of the US central bank in trimming their prime rate -- the rate used for key corporate customers. 

 But interest rate movements prompted by the Federal Reserve usually take six to nine months to have a noticeable impact. And in the present economy, the principal obstacle to growth, according to Greenspan, is the bloated state of business inventories. 

 Companies are currently trying to sell what they have already produced rather than actually expanding output. 

 Citing weak goods purchases in the fourth quarter, analyst Mark Vitner of First Union said "the economy made little progress in clearing out the recent buildup in inventories." 

 "What is needed is a pickup in retail sales and the Fed's rate cuts may help spur that." 

 At Salomon Smith Barney, economists have said production growth will have to be pared back to a level below that of demand in order to get rid of built-up inventories. 

 For that reason, the financial services firm sees a contraction of the US economy of 1.1 percent in the first quarter. 

 Other analysts foresee a rebound in the second half of the year in response to easier credit. 

 nh/rl 
   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1101 : Economic Growth | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gcon : Consumer Affairs   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPDFinancial | SEQN: 0856 | Federal Reserve Board | Greenspan, Alan   ANDocument afpr000020010709dx1v00y1v  



 HD US SEN. CONRAD, TOP DEM ON BUDGET PANEL, PRAISES FED RATE CUT.    WC294 words   PD31 January 2001   ET21:21   SNMarket News International   SCMARNEW   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001. Market News International, Inc.
   LP - Senator Conrad Says Fed's Two Rate Cuts are 'Quite Aggressive' Bid to Revive U.S. Economy - Monetary Policy is Now 'Moving In the Right Direction' 

 By John Shaw 
   TD WASHINGTON (MktNews) - The Federal Reserve Board's decision to cut both the federal funds and discount rates 50 basis points Wednesday was praised by Senator Kent Conrad, the senior Democrat on the Senate Budget Committee. 

 At a briefing on fiscal issues, Conrad said the reduction in short term interest rates was appropriate and necessary to revive the slumbering American economy. 

 Conrad said monetary policy is now "going in the right direction." 

 He said the Fed has been "quite aggressive" in its two interest rate cuts this month. 

 Conrad said the two rate cuts and other additional Fed rate cuts should boost the economy and provide the necessary stimulus to avoid a recession. 

 Conrad spent much of the briefing warning against the "enormous uncertainty" inherent in the Congressional Budget Office's projections of $5.6 trillion 10-year surplus. He said Congress should set aside President Bush's proposed 10-year tax cut which he called a "profound mistake." 

 Conrad said Bush's tax plan would cost at least $2 trillion over the decade when debt servicing costs are calculated. 

 The key lawmaker proposed a "compromise" 10-year $900 billion tax cut, saying reductions of this size are more fiscally responsible. 

 Conrad said the Senate Budget Committee is going to have a difficult time passing a budget resolution this spring. 

 "It's certainly going to be difficult," he said, adding that there are "significant differences" between the Democratic and Republican approaches to fiscal policy. 

 ** Market News International Washington Bureau: (202) 371-2121 ** 

 [TOPICS: MFU 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpol : Domestic Politics   REnamz : North America | usa : United States | usdc : Washington DC   IPCWASHINGTON   ANDocument marnew0020010713dx1v0072g  



 HDDollar unmoved as Fed cuts rates.   BYBy CHRISTOPHER SWANN AND ADRIENNE ROBERTS.    WC663 words   PD31 January 2001   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPForeign exchange traders gave a muted reaction to the decision by the Federal Reserve to cut rates by 50 basis points on Wednesday.

But traders said the dollar could suffer over the coming sessions.
   TD"There had been some suggestion that the Fed would boost the equity markets with a 75 basis point cut, now the focus will continue to be on the deteriorating economy," said Robert Lynch of BNP Paribas.

The dollar had been under pressure for most of the day, depressed by the continued flow of poor economic figures from the US.

Gross domestic product data showed the US economy growing at a puny annualised rate of 1.4 per cent in the fourth quarter - well below expectations of around 2 per cent.

Most worrying perhaps was the sharp slowdown in investment spending by businesses.

From a rise of 7.7 per cent in the third quarter, business investment fell by 1.5 per cent in the fourth - the sharpest slowdown since 1991.

The Chicago manufacturing purchasing managers index also made fairly grim reading - falling to its lowest level since 1982.

"It is being made painfully apparent that the manufacturing sector is in a deep recession," said Russell Jones, head of currency research at Lehman Brothers.

When added to Tuesday's poor consumer confidence figures, the GDP release caused some in the market to suggest the prospect of a 75 basis point cut in US interest rates.

By middle of London trading, the Fed funds futures - seen as the best gauge of US rate expectations - were pricing in the risk of a 75 basis point fall.

The euro ended London trading at $0.93, half a cent higher on the previous day.

But while the economic data continued to affect the interest rate futures markets the damage to the dollar was relatively contained.

The euro managed to probe only modestly above $0.93 in early London trading.

Analysts said this reflected the reluctance of investors to write off the US economy just yet.

"There are certainly few who want to take big bets ahead of the FOMC decision and there is always the risk that the non-farm payroll figures on Friday will disappoint," said Tony Norfield, head of currency research at ABN Amro in London.

In addition traders said that the euro continued to labour under the weight of long positions. Many traders were quick to buy into the currency as it surged at the end of last year and are now reluctant to add to these positions.

The latest IMM data from the Chicago Mercantile Exchange showed that these positions had been pared back.

"These should soon be cleared, allowing the euro to move higher," said Mr Norfield. "But for the moment they continue to hold the euro back."

With the Fed decision out of the way, one question uppermost on European traders' minds is likely to be whether the European Central Bank will follow suit.

The bank holds its fortnightly monetary policy meeting on Thursday, but recent comments by ECB board members have suggested a reluctance to ease monetary policy.

"Our central view is that the refinancing rate will remain on hold at 4.75 per cent throughout 2001," said David Page at Investec in London.

But he adds that this view hinges on "a visible recovery" in the US by the second half of 2001. "Without this the slowdown in the global economy will be sharper this year, with the repercussions felt more strongly in the euro area, thus prompting the ECB to cut rates."

Wednesday's slew of euro-zone producer price inflation data all pointed to moderating price pressures. Italian producer price growth registered its first month-on-month decline in two years, with the annual rate slipping to 6.2 per cent from 6.7 per cent. Producer price inflation in France fell to 4.7 per cent from 5.9 per cent. 
   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1101 : Economic Growth | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPCFederal Reserve USA   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument ftcom00020010715dx1v00bz3  
 Page 1 of 1      2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.


 

 Page 1      2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.

