 


 HDFed plays down signs of recovery.   BYBy GERARD BAKER IN WASHINGTON.    WC504 words   PD12 December 2001   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPThe Federal Reserve extended its campaign of interest rate cuts to revive the US economy on Tuesday, but softened the pace of easing by trimming rates just a quarter of a percentage point.

The US central bank's policymaking open market committee lowered its target for the federal funds rate, the main overnight rate at which banks lend to each other, to 1.75 per cent from 2 per cent. The Fed also reduced the largely symbolic discount rate from 1.5 to 1.25 per cent.
   TDThough it was the first time since the summer that the Fed had cut rates by 25 rather than 50 basis points, a move that reflected cautious optimism that the US economy may be approaching bottom, policymakers were careful to leave the door open to further possible rate cuts if needed.

They retained their so-called "tilt" of policy, saying economic conditions continued to point towards weakness in the foreseeable future. And they played down recent tenuous signs of recovery.

"Economic activity remains soft, with underlying inflation likely to edge lower from relatively modest levels. To be sure, weakness in demand shows signs of abating but those signs are preliminary and tentative," the committee said in a statement.

It was the 11th time this year that the central bank has cut short term rates - a campaign of unprecedented urgency to bolster the US economy, which earlier this year fell into recession for the first time in 10 years.

Financial futures markets have indicated in recent weeks that investors believe the central bank is close to the end of the easing cycle and are expecting rates to start rising again by the middle of next year.

The Fed cut rates by a half-point five times between January and May this year in response to proliferating evidence of economic weakness. It slowed the pace with two quarter-point moves over the summer amid hopes that the economy might be bottoming out. But after the terrorist attacks on September 11, it resumed the strategy of half-point cuts, with three between September and November.

Tuesday's cut leaves the Fed with a little more room for further reductions next year if economic reports turn sour again and the much anticipated recovery does not materialise.

Recent economic data on the performance of the US economy have been mixed. After plummeting in the wake of the September 11 attacks, consumer spending bounced back in October, and confidence seems to have stabilised. Meanwhile, businesses have continued to eliminate inventories, another factor that should underpin spending in the near future.

But the labour market remains desperately weak. The jobless rate rose to 5.7 per cent in November from 5.4 per cent a month earlier.

The Fed's announcement had little impact on stocks with the Dow Jones Industrial Average closing down 33.08 points at 9,888.37 while the Nasdaq composite edged up 9.80 to 2,001.92. 
   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPCFederal Reserve USA | Recession &Recovery | Economic News | Interest Rates | Economic Indicators | United States of America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument ftcom00020011213dxcc000bb  



 HD ANALYSTS' VIEW-Europe reacts to Fed rate cut.    WC531 words   PD12 December 2001   ET08:39   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 Reuters Limited
   LP LONDON, Dec 12 (Reuters) - Following are European analysts' reactions on Wednesday to the U.S. Federal Reserve's 25 basis point cut in a key short-term interest rate on Tuesday. 

 In its 11th reduction this year, the Fed cut the federal funds rate to 1.75 percent, its lowest in 40 years and indicated it was ready to cut again if necessary as economic risks remained tilted towards weakness. 
   TD MICHAEL DERKS, COMMONWEALTH BANK OF AUSTRALIA, LONDON 

 "The front end of the Treasury curve took encouragement from the rate cut. The accompanying statement was open-ended about further rate cuts and that helped. Their previous rate cuts were obvious, but at these low levels it becomes harder to guess. Nevertheless, the Fed is not convinced about economic recovery and so another 25 basis point rate cut is most likely at their January meeting. We have another six weeks of data to get through, but the market is already thinking about the next rate cut." 

 STEVE BARROW, CURRENCY STRATEGIST, BEAR STEARNS: 

 "It was as expected. I think the encouraging thing from the market perspective is that the Fed not only kept an easing bias but mentioned that inflation prospects were very good. That suggests that even once the economy stabilises and starts to move higher next year the Fed won't be in a rush to hike rates. 

 "We see the Fed cutting by another 25 basis points and the Fed funds target will end 2002 at 1.5 percent." 

 ROB HAYWARD, SENIOR FX STRATEGOST AT ABN-AMRO 

 "The Fed cut was bang in line with expectations. Our house view is that we've seen the end but the Fed has implied if there are no signs of stabilisation they could again in January. "The Fed didn't provide any impetus one way or the other" 

 AUDREY CHILDE-FREEMAN, CIBC WORLD MARKETS 

 "The central scenario of a 25 basis point rate cut was highly expected by the market. The other issue was whether they would keep an easing bias and they did, so no major surprise. We are now getting closer to levels where we are at the bottom of the easing cycle and that is why perhaps you see less and less of a market impact when the Fed cut rates. At the end of the day you are in an environment where we have low inflation, low growth and still falling interest rates but the market is forward looking. All of these forces have been in place for a long time and we have seen them being priced in. The market tries to look forward to next year now and it is now betting on a recovery at some stage next year and hence a pick up in economic growth and a pick up in interest rates." 

 JOSE SARAFANA, WESTLB, DUESSELDORF 

 "The Fed cut was widely expected so I don't think it will have a big impact. Inflation is falling and growth in the U.S., in euroland and in Japan is weakening and the forecasts of all the economies are being lowered so we have fundamental support for bond markets." 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nedc : Commentary/Opinion   REeurz : Europe | namz : North America | uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | weurz : Western Europe   ANDocument lba0000020011212dxcc00ctc  



 HD UPDATE 4-Fed cuts U.S. interest rates a quarter point.    BY By Glenn Somerville    WC1,020 words   PD12 December 2001   ET02:48   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 Reuters Limited
   LP WASHINGTON, Dec 11 (Reuters) - The Federal Reserve cut U.S. interest rates a quarter percentage point Tuesday, extending one of the most aggressive rate-cutting campaigns in its history as it tries to lift the economy out of recession. 

 Fed policymakers said the economy was soft and there were only tentative signs weak demand was firming - a statement some analysts took to mean the rate-easing cycle was not yet over. 
   TD The widely expected cut lowered the federal funds rate charged on overnight loans between banks to 1.75 percent, the lowest in 40 years. It was the 11th rate reduction by the U.S. central bank this year, a bold bid to boost consumer and business confidence with unemployment at a six-year high. 

 In a statement explaining the decision, policymakers said economic risks remained tilted toward weakness, implying they will cut rates again if necessary even though - according to one measure of inflation - the real interest rate now stands below zero in inflation-adjusted terms. 

 "Economic activity remains soft, with underlying inflation likely to edge lower from relatively modest levels," the Fed said. "To be sure, weakness in demand shows signs of abating, but those signs are preliminary and tentative." 

 The fed funds rate is the U.S. central bank's key tool for setting the nation's monetary policy and signals the direction it wishes business and consumer lending rates to follow. 

 The Fed also lowered its more symbolic discount rate by a matching quarter percentage point to 1.25 percent. 

 ANALYSTS LEFT SCRATCHING HEADS 

 Analysts had widely divergent opinions on how to interpret the Fed decision and the relatively sparse explanation offered by policymakers. 

 "I'm struck by the pessimistic tone of the statement," said economist Sung Won Sohn of Wells Fargo & Co. in Minneapolis. "The Fed seems clearly to be concerned about economic weakness spreading and mushrooming, so they've not only cut rates today but left the door wide open for another cut in January." 

 Others said the prolonged easing, which has taken the federal funds rate down 4-) percentage points this year for the sharpest decline in the funds rate since the deep recession of 1982, was nearly finished. 

 The said the Fed's reference to the "abating" of demand weakness was an early signal from policymakers. 

 "We believe that there will in all probability be another interest rate cut at the Jan. 29-30 FOMC meeting, although the series of rate decreases is in our view nearing its end," said economist Bruce Steinberg of Merrill Lynch & Co. in New York. 

 U.S. retail sales jumped 7.1 percent in October after falling 2.1 percent in September, but largely due to surging new-car sales prompted by price discounts and financing incentives that analysts said were unlikely to be sustained. 

 And the key holiday shopping season has not been especially cheery so far. 

 According to two reports released on Tuesday, retail sales at U.S. chain stores fell last week as Americans spent cautiously despite the upcoming holidays. 

 Sales slipped 0.4 percent during the week ended Dec. 8, after a 1.7 percent drop a week earlier, the Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi and UBS Warburg said. Instinet's Redbook Retail Sales Average fell 4.5 percent in the week ended Dec. 8 versus the same period in November. 

 Bond prices initially spiked higher after the Fed decision was announced, but eased later on the belief the Fed reference to weakness abating suggested that it saw an economic turnaround by mid-2002. That could mean not only that the rate-cutting cycle was over or nearly over, but also that policymakers might have to start pushing rates up next year. 

 Share prices were mixed, with the Dow Jones industrial average ending down 33.08 points at 9,888.37 while the high tech-laden Nasdaq composite index added 9.81 points to close at 2,001.93. 

 Most economists forecast a recovery beginning in the first half of next year and think, with the Fed running out of room to keep easing, the rate-cutting cycle must end soon. 

 David Jones, an economist with Aubrey G. Lanston & Co. in New York, said he thought the Fed was offering "a glimmer of hope" about a consumer-spending fueled economic pickup ahead and said he saw only one potential rate reduction left. 

 "The bottom line is that while the Fed has left room for perhaps yet another quarter-point cut by the time of the next FOMC meeting on January 29-30, I think we're getting near the end of the long string of rate cuts," Jones said. 

 FED'S EFFORT A COMPLEX ONE 

 The Fed's rate-cut effort has been an attempt to bolster an economy which was already weak before the Sept. 11 attacks and seen in danger of crumbling afterward. Policymakers have also been keen to add impetus to a few fledgling signs of recovery. 

 Tuesday's meeting was the eighth and final scheduled Federal Open Market Committee gathering of 2001. The Fed reduced rates at each of these and also lowered borrowing costs three times this year between scheduled meetings, starting January 3, to address persistently weak economic conditions. 

 Analysts said policymakers were trying to keep consumer hopes for the future intact, since consumer spending fuels two-thirds of national economic activity. 

 There have been flickers of hope in recent economic data, which the Fed wants to fan as much as it can through rate reductions. Any boost it can give consumer and business confidence should increase chances the current recession, which began in March, will be relatively brief. 

 The University of Michigan's consumer sentiment index bounced higher for a third straight month in December while October factory orders - including orders for costly and long-lasting durable goods - climbed strongly with inventories at low levels. That has led most analysts to forecast a recession that is mild, ending by mid-2002, with some saying the downturn already is bottoming out. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   ANDocument lba0000020011212dxcc002mh  



 CLMCredit Markets   HD Bond Prices Rise on Another Cut in Interest Rates And Hope of More Reductions in the Near Future    BY By Gregory Zuckerman and Steven Vames    CRStaff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal   WC942 words   PD12 December 2001   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGC15   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 2001, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP Bond prices edged higher on the heels of the Federal Reserve's 11th interest-rate cut of the year, as some investors held out hope of more rate reductions in coming months. 

 The Fed cut its target short-term interest rate, the federal-funds rate, by a quarter point to 1.75%. The move was well expected -- interest-rate futures prices had suggested close to a 100% chance of the 0.25 percentage-point cut. 
   TD In late trading, the benchmark 10-year Treasury note rose 8/32, or $2.50 for a bond with $1,000 face value, to 99 15/32. The bond's yield fell to 5.069%. 

 Thirty-year Treasury bonds rose 12/32 to yield 5.551%. The 30-year bond had been more than a full point higher immediately following the Fed's decision, and the 10-year note was up almost more than half a point. But the rally fizzled, reflecting continued unwillingness of investors to make big bets on bonds, after a month of big bond losses. 

 While the Fed's move is likely to help some borrowing rates, like some credit-card charges, the inability of the bond market to rally very much means long-term borrowing rates are unlikely to ease a great deal, undercutting the Fed's ability to spark the economy. Unless the bond market begins to rally, 30-year mortgage rates are likely to stay above 7%, for example, putting a halt to the refinancing boom that has helped the economy in the past two months. 

 Short-term Treasurys, which usually track rate moves by the Fed more than longer-term bonds, did even better. The five-year Treasurys, for example, rose 13/32 to yield 4.310%. The move by these bonds reflects an expectation that the Fed may cut rates again, if the economy remains frail. 

 Indeed, the Fed's suggestion that recent strength in some economic data is "preliminary and tentative" was seen by many as a sign that the central bank stands ready to cut rates again. "Clearly, the Fed is not yet ready to close the door on further easing," said David Greenlaw, economist at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter. "But at the same time, they wanted to show some sensitivity to the recent improvement in a few of the economic indicators." The Fed's next policy decision is slated for Jan. 30. 

 "The Fed has to tread a fine line," said Dominic Konstam, head of interest-rate strategy at Credit Suisse First Boston in New York. "It needs to address the fact that the economy still needs stimulus, but it has to convince the market that it is not cutting too aggressively so that it can eventually cause long rates to go down, which would further help the economy." 

 Bond prices have been tumbling for the past month, with the yield on the 10-year reaching as high as 5.20% on Friday. While buying emerged yesterday, as it did on Monday, some traders said it was tentative. 


                    FOUR-WEEK BILLS
  Here are the details of yesterday's auction of four-week bills. All
bids are awarded at a single price at the market-clearing yield. Rates
are determined by the difference between that price and the face value.
Applications .......................... $35,942,428,000
Accepted bids ......................... $15,000,000,000
Bids at market-clearing yld accepted ..           18.80%
Accepted noncompetitively .............     $27,428,000
Accepted frgn noncomp .................              $0
Auction price (Rate) ..................   99.870 (1.670%)
Coupon equivalent .....................           1.697%
CUSIP number ..........................       912795JB8
  The bills are dated Dec. 13, 2001, and mature Jan. 10, 2002.



Foreign Bonds



GlaxoSmithKline PLC sold what people in the market said was the
largest sterling-denominated corporate debt issue ever, totaling GBP 1
billion ($1.44 billion).



The 5.25%, 32-year bonds were priced to yield 0.75 percentage point
above the British government bond yield.



Brought via Credit Suisse First Boston and Schroder Salomon Smith
Barney, the offering drew total orders of more than GBP 2 billion from
more than 100 accounts, said Peter Charles, a syndicate official at
Schroder Salomon.



GlaxoSmithKline said proceeds from the issue will be used to
refinance debt.



Corporate & High-Yield Bonds



Pricing details emerged for Verizon Wireless's $2.5 billion offering
of Rule 144a debt, which is expected before the end of this week.



Indications were that a two-year, floating-rate part will yield the
three-month London interbank offered rate plus 0.40 percentage point,
while a five-year, fixed-rate portion will yield 1.25 percentage points
above comparable Treasurys.



The issue is expected to come via J.P. Morgan Chase and Salomon Smith
Barney and is rated single-A-2 by Moody's Investors Service,
single-A-plus by Standard & Poor's and single-A by Fitch.



Verizon Wireless is a joint venture between Verizon Communications,
New York, and Britain's Vodafone Group.



Meanwhile, in the high-yield arena, Appleton Papers met some
resistance from investors on the proposed terms of a $250 million,
seven-year senior subordinated note offering. Investors said the
indicated yield was increased to around 11.50% from an earlier range of
10.875% to 11.125%.



Ratings are single-B-3 by Moody's and single-B-plus by S&P. Bear
Stearns is lead manager for the deal, which was expected to come to
market late yesterday.



---



Richard A. Bravo and Margot Patrick contributed to this article.

   CObelatt : Verizon Communications Inc. | glxo : GlaxoSmithKline PLC | ratel : Vodafone Group PLC | verzw : Verizon Wireless   INi257 : Pharmaceuticals | i7902 : Telecommunications | i79021 : Wired Telecommunications Services | i7902101 : Local Telephone Services | i79022 : Wireless Telecommunications Services   NSccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | eec : European Union | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations   REeurz : Europe | namz : North America | uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | use : Northeast U.S. | weurz : Western Europe   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument j000000020011212dxcc0000l  



 HD Likely Fed Cut Barely Affects Asia --- Investors Stay Away From Stocks --- Dollar Attracts Most Interest    BY By Sarah McBride    CRStaff Reporter   WC663 words   PD12 December 2001   SNThe Asian Wall Street Journal   SCAWSJ   PGM1   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 2001, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP The expectation of a quarter-point interest-rate cut by the U.S. Federal Reserve on Tuesday didn't do much to get Asian investors buying stocks. Instead, it was the dollar that attracted the most interest. 

 Against the yen, the dollar is trading near an eight-month high, fetching around 126.05 yen in late Asian trading Tuesday. That's off slightly from the 126.38 yen to the dollar it reached on Monday in New York, but still enough to amply demonstrate the U.S. currency's enduring popularity. 
   TD "The more we get away from Sept. 11, the more there seems to be confidence returning" to the dollar, says Ayaz Ebrahim, chief investment officer at Credit Agricole Asset Management. "It's flight to quality, and concerns on Japan -- that Japanese authorities may manage a marginal deterioration in the yen for export purposes." A cheaper yen would make Japanese products cheaper on international markets. 

 But the dollar-yen trade was about the only thing moving Tuesday in Asia. Stocks in Hong Kong, Jakarta, Singapore, Sydney, Manila, Taipei and Tokyo all closed slightly lower, but none more than 1% down from Monday. Seoul and Kuala Lumpur saw slight gains. Volume was light. 

 If stocks move sharply today in Asia, fund managers say, it will likely be because of factors unconnected to a U.S. rate cut, such as corporate news or political developments. In Tokyo, investors are focused on the Japanese central bank's tankan survey of business sentiment, to be released early today. 

 The cut's biggest impact could be on banking stocks, as it would hit profit margins. In Hong Kong, for example, where banks tend to follow the Federal Reserve's lead, 80% of bank loans are at floating rates, while 75% of deposits are at fixed rates. So each rate cut means banks see less income from loan interest, but they still have to pay the same interest on deposits, squeezing the margin. 

 In the U.S., a quarter-point cut in the federal-funds rate would bring the target rate down to 1.75%. 

 "The interesting part is whether this is going to be the last one," says Terence Khoo, a fund manager at Sofaer Global Research in Hong Kong. "The signals are mixed right now on the economy, which is consistent with an inflection point." 

 At Investec Asset Management, Chief Investment Officer Robert Conlon thinks moving in incremental steps with small rate cuts is exactly the right move. "You don't know what level of interest rates is likely to stimulate a change in people's investment and consumption habits," he says. "You keep going down until you find that level." 

 He thinks the cuts are already starting to work, and points to strong car sales in the U.S., driven by zero-interest financing on automobiles. Those car sales helped boost U.S. consumer spending by 2.9% in October from a year earlier. No car manufacturer could have afforded such an offer if interest rates were much higher. 

 --- 

 Journal Link: See complete coverage of the U.S. Federal Reserve meeting in the online Journal at WSJ.com/JournalLinks. 


---
  Market Moves
  The Federal Reserve's series of interest-rate cuts this year, and the
U.S. stock market's reactions
                                         S&P 500
                Amount of                Reaction
  Date          Rate Cut                 That Day
  Jan. 3*       0.5 point, to 6%         +5.0%
  Jan. 31       0.5 point                -0.6%
  March 20      0.5 point                -2.4%
  April 18*     0.5 point                +3.9%
  May 15        0.5 point                Little changed
  June 27       0.25 point               -0.5%
  Aug. 21       0.25 point               -1.2%
  Sept. 17      0.5 point                -4.9%
  Oct. 2        0.5 point                +1.2%
  Nov. 6        0.5 point                +1.5%
  Dec. 11       Expected - 0.25 point
  * Surprise cuts

   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REasiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia | china : China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | easiaz : Eastern Asia | hkong : Hong Kong | indon : Indonesia | jap : Japan | malay : Malaysia | namz : North America | phlns : Philippines | seasiaz : Southeast Asia | singp : Singapore | skorea : South Korea | taiwan : Taiwan | usa : United States   ANDocument awsj000020011212dxcc0001s  



 HD Many economists believe 11th Fed rate cut will be the last    BY By MARTIN CRUTSINGER    CRAP Economics Writer   WC801 words   PD12 December 2001   ET08:22   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY Copyright 2001.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved. 
   LP WASHINGTON (AP) - With the Federal Reserve driving a key interest rate to its lowest level since John F. Kennedy was president, many analysts are betting that the central bank has finally reached the end of its aggressive credit easing. 

 The fed cut interest rates for an 11th time, and signaled on Tuesday that it was prepared to cut even further if necessary. 
   TD "With a little bit of luck, this will probably be the last rate cut the Fed will have to implement in this cycle," said Mark Zandi, chief economist at Economy.com. "I think the Fed senses the economy is finding a bottom and will begin to turn upward by early next year." 

 Part of the reason for that opinion is the fact that the central bank, which had cut rates by a half-point on three separate occasions since Sept. 11, felt the need this time around for only a quarter-point reduction in the federal funds rate, pushing it down to 1.75 percent. 

 Also, analysts said they detected a more positive tone in the Fed's brief statement announcing its decision. 

 In its statement, the Fed said that "weakness in demand shows signs of abating" although it cautioned that as of yet those signs remained "preliminary and tentative." 

 Joel Naroff, chief economist of a Holland, Pa., consulting firm, said the Fed seemed to be saying "if the data that come out before the Jan. 29-30 meeting continue to point to demand rebounding, they will not have reason to cut anymore." 

 The Fed left the door open for further rate cuts by saying that the threats to the economy going forward remained weighted to economic weakness rather than higher inflation. In fact, the central bank noted that the already low inflation rate was "likely to edge lower" in coming months because of the economic downturn. 

 Some economists said they still believed one more quarter-point rate cut was possible at the central bank's January meeting, if for no other reason than it would represent an insurance policy that the economy will have more momentum when it emerges next year from its first recession in a decade. 

 Martin Regalia, chief economist at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, said he expected the economy, which shrank at an annual rate of 1.1 percent in the July-September quarter, was shrinking at a 2 percent rate in the current quarter. 

 The Fed's latest action pushed its target for the federal funds rate, the interest that banks charge each other, down to 1.75 percent, the lowest level since July 1961. The Fed also reduced its discount rate, the interest it charges to lend money directly to banks, by a quarter-point to 1.25 percent, the lowest level on record. 

 Commercial banks immediately matched the Fed's rate reductions by lowering their prime lending rate, the benchmark rate for millions of consumer and business loans, to 4.75 percent, the lowest level since November 1965. The changes in the prime rate were to take effect Wednesday. 

 In addition to easier credit from the Fed, President Bush is urging Congress to pass an economic stimulus bill which has been stalled in Congress because of Democratic objections that it favored the wealthy. 

 In an effort to break the stalemate, the administration put forward some compromise proposals on Tuesday to boost the amounts in the package aimed at low income workers and the unemployed. 

 David Jones, chief economist at Aubrey G. Lanston & Co., said that if Congress does pass a stimulus package before Christmas and the economy shows further signs of stabilizing, the Fed will leave rates unchanged at its January meeting. 

 "I would not completely rule out another quarter-point rate cut, but the odds are 50 percent or less that it will happen," Jones said. 

 Beginning last Jan. 3, the Fed has reduced its target for the federal funds rate by 4.75 percentage points, the largest reduction in a single year since the Fed slashed the funds rate by 6.7 percentage points in 1981 as it battled the country's worst recession since the Great Depression. 

 David Wyss, chief economist at Standard & Poor's in New York, said the Fed felt the need to leave the door open for further cuts because of the great downside risks still facing the economy such as another terrorist attack or the threat of a disruption in oil supplies if the war in Afghanistan spreads to other countries in the Middle East. 

 "Given the terrorist threat that is still out there, the chances of something going wrong remains high," Wyss said. 

 --- 

 On the Net: 

Federal Reserve: http://www.federalreserve.gov
   RFRush   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpol : Domestic Politics | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States | usdc : Washington DC | uss : Southern U.S. | usw : Western U.S. | uswa : Washington   IPCslda0453 | sel----- | tagdsa   IPDWashington | AP National News | BC-Fed-Interest Rates | 9eb87f421b93d963f9504f83733694cb   ANDocument aprs000020011212dxcc00cic  



 HD Fed cuts rates for 11th time, but smaller quarter-point move seen as signal rate reductions nearing an end    BY By MARTIN CRUTSINGER    CRAP Economics Writer   WC766 words   PD12 December 2001   ET01:07   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY Copyright 2001.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved. 
   LP WASHINGTON (AP) - The Federal Reserve cut interest rates for the 11th time this year, capping its most aggressive string of rate cuts since the early 1980s. 

 However, in its latest move, the Fed cut a key interest rate by just a quarter-point rather than the bolder half-point moves the central bank has favored for most of this year. 
   TD Many economists saw this change as a clear signal that Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan and his colleagues believe they have done enough to lift the country out of its first recession in a decade. 

 Economists did not totally rule out one more quarter-point move at the Fed's next meeting in early January as an insurance policy, but they said that rate reduction would occur only if economic statistics in the next month come in much worse than expected. 

 "I think the Fed senses the economy is finding a bottom and will begin to turn upward by early next year," said Mark Zandi, chief economist at Economy.com. 

 In its statement, the Fed said that "weakness in demand shows signs of abating" although it cautioned that as of yet those signs remained "preliminary and tentative." 

 The Fed's latest action pushed its target for the federal funds rate, the interest that banks charge each other, down to a 40-year low of 1.75 percent. The Fed also reduced its discount rate, the interest it charges to lend money directly to banks, by a quarter-point to 1.25 percent, the lowest level on record. 

 Commercial banks immediately matched the Fed's rate reductions by lowering their prime lending rate, the benchmark rate for millions of consumer and business loans, to 4.75 percent, the lowest level since November 1965. 

 The Fed's hope is that the low borrowing costs will spur consumer spending and business investments, which will in turn trigger American factories to ramp up production. 

 In addition to easier credit from the Fed, President George W. Bush is urging Congress to pass close to dlrs 100 billion in additional tax cuts for individuals and businesses, which administration officials contend would boost employment by 300,000 next year and lift economic growth by one-half percentage point. 

 The plan has been stalemated in Congress for weeks because of Democratic demands that the package include less in tax cuts for the wealthy and corporations and more support for unemployed and low-income workers. 

 However, the administration made a compromise offer on Tuesday that could lead to the stalemate being resolved. 

 "Movement toward a possible compromise on the stimulus package may be the best news of all from the point of view of business confidence," said David Jones, chief economist at Aubrey G. Lanston & Co. in New York. 

 Jones and other analysts said if Congress does pass a stimulus package before Christmas and the economy shows further signs of stabilizing, the Fed will leave rates unchanged at its next meeting at the end of January. 

 Beginning last Jan. 3, the Fed has reduced its target for the federal funds rate from 6.5 percent down to 1.75 percent, the lowest level since July 1961. 

 The 4.75 percentage points in total cuts this year represents the largest reduction in the space of a year since the Fed slashed the funds rate by 6.7 percentage points in the space of just six months in late 1981 as it battled the country's worst recession since the Great Depression. 

 Some economists had been predicting that the central bank might leave rates unchanged at Tuesday's meeting, given some tentative signals of an upturn in stronger-than-expected auto sales and a big jump in factory orders. 

 However, that view changed when the government reported last Friday that the unemployment rate shot up to a six-year high of 5.7 percent in November as another 331,000 Americans lost jobs, capping two months when the labor market in such travel-related industries as airlines and hotels was devastated by the fallout from the terrorist attacks. 

 "The Fed is clearly nearing the end for rate cuts, but policy-makers remain mindful that a number of downside risks still remain," said David Wyss, chief economist at Standard & Poor's in New York. "Given the terrorist threat that is still out there, the chances of something going wrong remains high." 

 --- 

 On the Net: 

Federal Reserve: http://www.federalreserve.gov
   RFRush   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States | usw : Western U.S. | uswa : Washington   IPCsldw1126 | selwstm- | tagwsfiler   IPDFinancial/Business | AP Worldstream | BC-US-Fed-Interest Rates | 906e884bfb4e00fdcf34dc02aaa24c8f   ANDocument aprs000020011212dxcc000xj  



 HDFed set to cut  interest rate  for 11th time.   BYBy GERARD BAKER AND PERONET DESPEIGNES IN WASHINGTON.    WC410 words   PD11 December 2001   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPThe Federal Reserve is expected to lower interest rates on Tuesday for the 11th time this year, driving them to levels not seen over any extended period in more than four decades.

At its last scheduled meeting of a tumultuous year, the Fed's policy-making open market committee is expected to cut its key short-term interest rate from its current 2 per cent.
   TDPrices in financial futures markets on Monday indicated the expectation among investors that the Fed would end its recent run of half-point rate cuts and opt instead for a quarter-point reduction. That would reflect tentative signs that the economy was stabilising from its year-long slide into recession.

There has been growing speculation among economists and investors that Tuesday's expected rate cut could be the last in the current cycle, with markets indicating the probability that the central bank would be raising rates again early next year.

But the Fed continues to confront evidence of economic weakness, including the recent official declaration that the US is in a full-blown recession and bad news on employment.

Following last Friday's report from the labour department that showed the jobless rate rose to a six-year high in November, traders have begun to consider the slight possibility that the Fed might cut rates a half-point to 1.5 per cent, a level not sustained over any lengthy period since the 1950s.

Depending on the measure of inflation or inflation expectations used, real (inflation-adjusted) short-term interest rates in the US could be driven to less than zero for the first time since the 1990-91 recession.

Financial markets have rallied over the past two months on speculation that the US recession, which began in March, will be short and mild. But investors' doubts were renewed by the disappointing unemployment figures, which showed few signs of any let-up in the rapid erosion of employment this year.

According to the Montreal-based Bank Credit Analyst Research Group, financial conditions remain overly tight.

"The Fed's reflationary efforts are being countered by powerful economic headwinds caused by the unwinding of the excesses built up during the 1990s," it said in a recent report. "We expect the Fed to take the view that the risks of being too tight will far outweigh those of being too stimulative." 
   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REeurz : Europe | namz : North America | uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | weurz : Western Europe   IPCFederal Reserve USA | Forecasts &Predictions | Economic News | Interest Rates | General News | Economic Indicators   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument ftcom00020011212dxcb0005o  



 HD FOMC-What is the Fed looking at?    BY By Ross Finley    WC1,197 words   PD11 December 2001   ET04:33   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 Reuters Limited
   LP NEW YORK, Dec 10 (Reuters) - The U.S. Federal Reserve meets on Tuesday to deliver what is expected to be its 11th interest rate cut this year, and policymakers will have plenty of data showing an economy in recession mixed with some glimmers of hope that the worst may have passed. 

 At the meeting, the Fed's policy-setting arm, the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC), is likely to cut the benchmark 2.0 percent federal funds rate to 1.75 percent - which would be its lowest since 1961. 
   TD Many Wall Street economists are forecasting a recovery in the first half of 2002, and some expect a snap-back to come before March. But Fed officials in recent speeches have been more cautious in their outlook. 

 Here are some key issues the Fed will be looking at: 

 RECESSIONARY GRIP 

 The most recent data available to the Fed show an economy firmly in recession. 

 * U.S. companies have chopped nearly 800,000 jobs from non-farm payrolls over the past two months, underscoring a rapidly weakening labor market since the Sept. 11 attacks. The last time the economy sustained such a deep back-to-back monthly loss of jobs was in May-June 1980. The unemployment rate hit a six-year high of 5.7 percent in November, and most economists expect it to exceed 6 percent by early 2002. November job losses were seen across service sector industries and manufacturing, indicating broad labor market weakness. 

 * The preliminary revision of government third-quarter gross domestic product data showed the economy contracted by 1.1 percent, highlighted by a steep tumble in corporate profits, now in a full year of decline. It was the worst quarterly performance for the world's largest economy since the first three months of 1991. 

 * The Fed's own anecdotal "Beige Book" report on the economy published last month held a grim tone, showing sluggish conditions in late October and early November as the slowdown deepened in most regions of the country. 

 * Corporate earnings for the Standard & Poor's 500 companies were down nearly 22 percent in the third quarter, according to the most recent data available from Thomson Financial/First Call. The same Boston-based group expects earnings to tumble roughly 19 percent in the fourth quarter. 

 * Manufacturing output contracted for a 16th consecutive month in November, but at a slower pace than in October, according to National Association of Purchasing Management (NAPM) data. 

 GLIMMERS OF HOPE 

 Despite the business downturn, consumers so far have remained firm suggesting a recovery may be near. 

 * Retail sales had a record month in October, up 7.1 percent, led mainly by discounting and zero interest-rate financing by automakers, which drew shoppers into showrooms in droves. That was a strong rebound from a 2.2 percent drop in retail sales in September. But October sales excluding automobiles were up a much more modest 1.0 percent, and weekly chain store sales, more sluggish than expected at the end of November, pointed to a grim holiday shopping season. 

 * Personal spending in October also was a record as Americans put new cars in their driveways. 

 * Housing starts, which had remained resilient in the face of recession, put in the beginnings of a downward trend in October down 1.3 percent to a 1.552 million annualized unit rate, off more than 6 percent from a recent peak in July. New home sales held mostly steady in October, supported by low mortgage rates. 

 * Key indexes of consumer confidence, meanwhile, have drifted in opposite directions. The Conference Board's measure, widely viewed as sensitive to labor market conditions, logged its fifth consecutive monthly decline in November. The University of Michigan sentiment index, sensitive to overall financial conditions and the lowest inflation expectations since the 1950s, has edged higher for three straight months. 

 * NAPM also said its four-year old index of service sector business surged in November, pointing to renewed, albeit anemic, growth. That surge defied analysts's expectations for contraction and offered markets hope for a recovery. 

 * With companies stripped of most of their pricing power, inflation pressures in the economy have decelerated. Crude oil prices have tumbled more than $2 a barrel from early November levels to a little over $18 a barrel. The October Consumer Price Index fell 0.3 percent after a 0.4 percent gain in September. And the Producer Price Index tumbled 1.6 percent in October. 

 STOCK MARKET MORE UPBEAT 

 * The Dow Jones industrial average raced through the key 10,000 mark last week for the first time in three months as investor optimism about a swift recovery increased the appetite for risk. The technology-heavy Nasdaq Composite index surged through 2,000, a first since early August, in part on upbeat comments from technology bellwethers Oracle Corp. and Cisco Systems Inc. 

 * The U.S. Treasury market has sold off sharply as hopes for a recovery infiltrated the market and as progress in the war in Afghanistan lifted the flight-to-quality bid in government securities. Benchmark 10-year note yields, currently near 5.15 percent, are about 90 basis points higher than where they were on Nov,. 6, when the Fed last met to set policy and cut the fed funds rate by a half percentage point. That rise has helped to lift mortgage rates slightly. 

 * The U.S. dollar has remained resilient against other major world currencies, even as the economy has slid into recession along with Japan's and alongside protracted weakness in Europe. 

 * The collapse of Enron Corp., the largest U.S. energy trading company, left some $33 billion in credit exposure and caused nervousness in debt markets. But New York Fed President William McDonough and ratings agency Standard & Poor's said it does not threaten the financial system. 

 FED SPEAK 

 Fed officials recently have said a recovery is likely to come later next year rather than sooner. 

 The New York Fed's McDonough, always an FOMC voter, said last week he is unsure whether the worst is over for the U.S. economy. 

 Chicago Fed President Michael Moskow, also a voter, said last week the economy is "extremely weak" and it is unclear when the nation will climb its way out of recession. 

 Philadelphia Fed President Anthony Santomero said in late November rising unemployment and its dampening effect on consumer confidence and spending would likely postpone the beginning of a recovery until mid-2002. 

 St. Louis Fed President William Poole, a voter, also said in late November it was unclear when the economy would clamber out of recession, adding there was no way to tell when the trough would occur. 

 And Fed Board Governor Laurence Meyer said in a speech two weeks ago it would be misguided for the Fed to hold back on cutting interest rates aggressively merely because interest rates are already very low. 

 Meyer's comments triggered speculation the Fed could cut rates by a half-point, although all 24 primary bond dealers in a Friday Reuters poll forecast the Fed would lower rates by one quarter percentage point to 1.75 percent. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   ANDocument lba0000020011211dxcb006sk  



 CLMCredit Markets   HD Municipal-Bond Sales Head for Record Territory As State, Local Governments Tackle Budget Gaps    BY By Michael A. Pollock    CRDow Jones Newswires   WC1,290 words   PD11 December 2001   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGC12   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 2001, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP NEW YORK -- A rush by state and local governments to sell debt issues is making 2001 one of the biggest years ever for sales of new municipal bonds. 

 The borrowing binge, which isn't expected to end soon, was spurred in part by lower interest rates. But even if rates rise, governments will continue borrowing more to help close budget gaps stemming from the impact of a sluggish U.S. economy on state and local revenue, analysts believe. 
   TD For investors, the upside could be a greater variety of new bonds bearing loftier, and thus more attractive, yields. But there's some risk that a lingering recession will erode the credit standing of issuers, possibly hurting the value of bonds outstanding. 

 Thomas G. Moles, managing director and senior portfolio manager at J. & W. Seligman & Co., who manages nearly $2 billion in municipal debt, is "keeping a close eye" on bonds related to air travel and other sectors where the recession's impact has been compounded by the Sept. 11 attacks. 

 "That's been just one more thing to make life interesting," he notes. 

 With long-term bond issuance already at heady levels, and with some people projecting record volume next year, investors certainly will have more choice of credits. 

 Through the first 11 months of 2001, muni-bond sales totaled $251 billion, up 40% from the same period in 2000, according to Thomson Financial. Sales for the entire year could total $270 billion, the third largest volume on record, analysts say. 

 A factor lifting volume this fall was about $5 billion in sales by New York City-related entities, in part to quickly raise money for recovery efforts after Sept. 11. 

 Some market professionals foresee continued low interest rates and budget pinches leading to more than $300 billion of new issues next year, which would shatter the record of $292 billion set in 1993. 

 Lower interest rates have prompted governments to raise new capital and to replace older, higher-cost debt with new borrowings at lower rates. In the first 11 months of 2001, these so-called refundings of previously issued debt comprised nearly one-third of all issuance, up from 18% in the same period of 2000, according to Thomson Financial. Philip Fischer, a muni-market strategist at Merrill Lynch, says such activity will continue at a fast pace in the months ahead as a sluggish economy keeps interest rates from rising much. 

 A survey in November by the National Conference of State Legislatures found that revenues were below projections in 43 states and spending above budget in 21. And as unemployment -- now at a six-year high of 5.7% -- surges, many states face rising costs for welfare programs. 

 In California, for example, revenue shortfalls could produce a $4.5 billion budget deficit this fiscal year and, depending on the timing and strength of economic recovery, a $12.4 billion gap in fiscal 2003, according to a recent report by the state's legislative analyst's office. 

 The good news for investors is that yields may ratchet higher as more borrowers crowd into the market. 

 That would be a welcome change from the sub-5% yields for highly rated long-term, tax-exempt bonds seen this fall, as yields of Treasurys fell to historic lows. This month, yields for some municipal bonds of 15 years or longer in maturity rose above 5%, analysts note. 

 Treasury Securities 

 Treasurys prices rose for the first time in four trading days amid optimism that Federal Reserve policy makers will cut interest rates again today. The market also drew support from weakness in stocks and from a belief that after large losses recently, bonds were due for a respite. 

 At 4 p.m., the benchmark 10-year Treasury note was up 13/32 point, or $4.06 per $1,000 face value, at 99 7/32. Its yield fell to 5.102% from 5.156% Friday, as yields move inversely to prices. 

 The 30-year bond's price gained 10/32 point to end at 97 3/32. Its yield dropped to 5.577% from 5.600% Friday. 

 Over the past month, investors have rushed to unload Treasurys as they focused on evidence that the economy finally has stabilized in response to aggressive Fed easing and the administration's tax cuts. 

 As selling between Nov. 9 and last Friday drove the benchmark 10-year note's price down, its yield rose 0.85 percentage point -- the issue's worst four-week performance in 14 years, said Corey Redfield, chief fixed-income strategist at US Bancorp Piper Jaffray, in Minneapolis. By yesterday, Mr. Redfield said, "if nothing else, you probably get a bounce" in prices. 

 Treasurys also got a lift as the Dow Jones Industrial Average declined 128.01 points to 9921.45. Weakness in stocks often spurs investors to shift money into the government securities market. 

 Much of the focus also was on today's Fed policy meeting, which is widely expected to result in a quarter-point reduction in the target for the federal funds, or overnight bank lending rate. That would take the rate down to 1.75% from 2% currently. It stood at 6.5% at the beginning of 2001. 

 Helping to spur expectations of further Fed easing, the Labor Department on Friday said nonfarm payrolls shrank by 331,000 jobs in November, while the unemployment rate rose to 5.7%, its highest in six years. 

 Besides what the Fed does, its observations about the economy in any formal statement also will be of keen interest to people in the market, who are trying to gauge whether any more interest-rate reductions might lie ahead. 


  Here are the details of yesterday's auction by the Treasury of
13-week and 26-week bills;
  All bids are awarded at a single price at the market-clearing yield.
Rates are determined by the difference between that price and the face
value.
                           13-Week         26-Week
Applications .......... $25,941,031,000 $24,477,454,000
Accepted bids ......... $14,000,011,000 $16,000,080,000
Accepted noncomp ......  $1,362,541,000    $882,939,000
Accepted frgn non .....    $100,000,000     $25,000,000
Auction price (Rate) ..  99.577 (1.675%) 99.108 (1.765%)
Coupon equivalent .....          1.704%          1.805%
Bids at market yield ..          82.49%          23.92%
CUSIP number ..........       912795JK8       912795JY8
  Both issues are dated Dec. 13. The 13-week bills mature March 14,
2002, and the 26-week bills mature June 13, 2002.



Corporate & Junk Bonds



Few corporate bond issues were brought, but several were being
readied.



The largest was expected to be a $2.5 billion Rule 144a issue by
Verizon Wireless, expected to include a five-year, fixed-rate portion
and a two-year, floating-rate part. J.P. Morgan Chase and Salomon Smith
Barney are co-leads. Verizon Wireless is a joint venture between Verizon
Communications, New York, and Britain's Vodafone Group.



Cleveland Electric Capital Trust was planning to sell $100 million of
30-year preferred securities via Morgan Stanley. Early indications were
a yield of 9% to 9.125%. The debt has been rated Ba1 by Moody's
Investors Service and double-B-plus by Standard & Poor's.



In the junk sector, Appleton Papers was expected late yesterday to
sell a $250 million offering of seven-year senior, subordinated notes
yielding between 10.875% and 11.025%. Bear Stearns will lead-manage the
issue, rated single-B-3 by Moody's and single-B-plus by S&P.



---



Jennifer Downey, Christine Richard and John Dooley contributed to
this article.

   CObelatt : Verizon Communications Inc. | ratel : Vodafone Group PLC | verzw : Verizon Wireless   INi7902 : Telecommunications | i79021 : Wired Telecommunications Services | i7902101 : Local Telephone Services | i79022 : Wireless Telecommunications Services   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | e21 : Government Finance | e211 : Government Taxation/Revenue | e212 : Government Borrowing | e213 : Sub-national/Local Taxes | e214 : Sub-national/Local Borrowing | ecat : Economic News | eec : European Union | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations   REeurz : Europe | namz : North America | uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | use : Northeast U.S. | weurz : Western Europe   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument j000000020011211dxcb00031  



 CLMMonday's Markets   HD Stocks Fall Back Before Meeting Of Fed on Rates    BY By E.S. Browning    CRStaff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal   WC1,102 words   PD11 December 2001   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGC1   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 2001, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP The Dow Jones Industrial Average fell below 10000 again, as investors pulled back from stocks in advance of today's Federal Reserve policy meeting. 

 With the Fed widely expected to announce another quarter-point cut in its target short-term interest rate at about 2:15 p.m. EST, many investors were focusing less on the cut itself than on what the Fed may say about the economy. Any hint that it sees the economy improving would be seen as a signal that it is preparing to stop cutting rates -- good news for stocks, which would welcome signs of an economic recovery, but bad news for bonds, which tend to suffer when interest rates are rising. 
   TD As investors awaited the news, the Dow industrials fell 1.27%, or 128.01 points, to 9921.45. The Nasdaq Composite Index, dominated by volatile technology stocks, fell below the 2000 level again, finishing regular trading hours down 1.44%, or 29.14 points, at 1992.12. The broad Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, dragged down by slumping bank and drug stocks, fell 1.59%, or 18.38 points, to 1139.93. 

 Investors said that with the Nasdaq composite still up 40% from its September low, and the Dow industrials up 20%, it wasn't a surprise that stocks were taking a breather ahead of the Fed meeting. 

 "We've had a big boost in the market," said Tim Morris, chief investment officer at New York money-management firm Bessemer Trust. "It is an opportunity to take some profits on a day when you have a lot of traders sitting on the sideline waiting to see what happens" at the Fed meeting. 

 Treasury bonds rebounded slightly after suffering a selloff on Thursday and Friday. But even with yesterday's small gain, the 10-year Treasury note still looked a bit frayed at the edges. Its yield, which rises when its price falls, remained well above 5%; when interest rates were falling and bonds were the hot place that investors wanted to be, the yield on the 10-year note was well below 5%. Government bonds have begun to suffer this fall amid fears that the Fed could start raising its target rates again next year. 

 Any hint from the Fed in its commentary today that it sees the economy improving would mark a sharp shift in the Fed outlook. Since Jan. 3, the Fed has cut its target for the federal-funds rate 10 times. During that time, it has pushed the rate to 2%, its lowest level in 40 years, from the 6.5% level at which it began the year. Each time it has cut rates, the Fed has warned that the economy continued to face a risk of further weakness, an indication that its policy makers intended to cut rates further. If the Fed cuts rates an 11th time today, investors will examine its comments closely for any sign of change in that verbiage. 

 As they waited for the Fed to meet, however, investors looked over their shoulders and started to wonder whether stocks haven't come a little too far, a little too fast. 

 "Over the weekend, I think people decided that stocks were a little rich, and everybody came in and decided to sell some," said Andy Brooks, head of stock trading at Baltimore mutual-fund group T. Rowe Price. People looked at the size of the surge since September and said, " `I'm not sure the economy has recovered that much,' " Mr. Brooks said. 

 Despite the stock gains, the Dow industrials remain down 8% this year, 15% off their record high, while the Nasdaq composite still is down 19% for the year, 61% off its record. Given how far the indexes have fallen, many investors are hoping they will resume their rally. To spark the rally, they are hoping for some sign that a recovery is coming in corporate profits. 

 "I'm fairly optimistic for next year," said Mr. Morris of Bessemer Trust. "We have lower interest rates, lower borrowing costs, lower energy costs, and companies are rapidly incorporating lower labor costs. So I think corporations are in good shape to make some money." 

 The Dow industrials have repeatedly moved above and below 10000 since first crossing that mark on March 29, 1999. Their inability to stay lastingly above that level means they have made no net progress in nearly two years and nine months. 

 The debate among investors now is how strong earnings really will be next year. The optimists are hoping that, since earnings have been soft for most of the past year, it will be easier for earnings to start showing strong gains because year-ago figures will start being easier to beat. 

 Outside the U.S., stocks declined in dollar terms. The Dow Jones World Stock Index, excluding U.S. stocks, fell 1.48%, or 1.85 points, to 123.40. 

 In major U.S. market action: 

 Stocks retreated. On the Big Board, where 1.19 billion shares traded, 969 stocks rose and 2,178 fell. 

 Bonds gained. The 10-year Treasury note rose 13/32, or $4.0625 for each $1,000 invested. The yield, which moves inversely to price, fell to 5.102%. The 30-year bond was up 10/32 to yield 5.577%. 

 The dollar was mixed. Late in New York, it traded at 126.04 yen, up from 125.54 yen, while the euro rose against the dollar to 89.09 cents from 88.94 cents. 


---
                     The Fed Speaks
  The Federal Reserve's series of interest-rate cuts this year, and the
stock market's reactions. Surprise cuts*:
                               S&P 500
              AMOUNT OF        REACTION
DATE          RATE CUT         THAT DAY
Jan. 3*       0.5 pt, to 6%     +5.0%
Jan. 31       0.5 pt            -0.6%
March 20      0.5 pt            -2.4%
April 18*     0.5 pt            +3.9%
May 15        0.5 pt        Little changed
June 27       0.25 pt           -0.5%
Aug. 21       0.25 pt           -1.2%
Sept. 17      0.5 pt            -4.9%
Oct. 2        0.5 pt            +1.2%
Nov. 6        0.5 pt            +1.5%
Dec. 11      -0.25 pt (Expected) N/A
  Note: These are cuts in the Federal Reserve's target for the
federal-funds rate. The fed-funds rate began the year at 6.5% after a
series of Fed rate increases. It stood on Monday at 2% after 10 rate
cuts.

   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m11 : Equity Markets | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nsum : News Digest   REasiaz : Asia | easiaz : Eastern Asia | jap : Japan | namz : North America | usa : United States   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument j000000020011211dxcb0001r  



 HD Wall Street rally falters after Fed rate cut [Corrected 12/11/01]    WC751 words   PD11 December 2001   SNAgence France-Presse   SCAFPR   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright 2001) 
   CX CORRECTION: ATTENTION - UPDATES with market close 
   LP NEW YORK, Dec 11 (AFP) - Investors failed to sustain a rally in blue chips Tuesday even after a fresh rate cut by the Federal Reserve, amid concerns over how quickly the recovery will take root in the United States. 

 The Dow Jones industrial average gave back early gains and closed down 33.08 points (0.33 percent) at 9,888.37 and the broad-market Standard and Poor's 500 shed 3.17 points (0.28 percent) to 1,136.76. 
   TD The tech-heavy Nasdaq composite managed to hold a gain of 9.81 points (0.49 percent) to end at 2,001.93. 

 Share prices were slightly higher in early afternoon trade after the Federal Reserve cut interest rates by an expected 25 basis points -- the 11th cut this year -- and left the door open to additional easing. 

 The action cut the federal funds rate to 1.75 percent from 2.0 percent. 

 The markets initially rose on the announcement. But as the session wore on, concerns about the economic outlook for next year began to grip investors, who slowly began to wonder how many more Fed interventions it will take before the upswing materializes. 

 "There is not a lot of conviction," said Morgan Stanley senior trader Michael Lyons, who added that "the market is at the point now where it does not know where to go." 

 In its commentary on the decision, the Fed said that it was maintaining its easing bias with economic risks still tilting toward weakness. 

 "Economic activity remains soft ... to be sure, weakness in demand shows signs of abating, but those signs are preliminary and tentative," the Fed said in its statement. 

 It also said that underlying inflation was "likely to edge lower from relatively modest levels." 

 "The rate cut was necessary for the psychology of the market but cosmetic," said Barry Hyman, chief market strategist at Ehrenkrantz, King and Nussbaum. 

 In the longer term, Wall Street could begin to worry about the reasons for yet another interest rate cut, Hyman said. 

 The market has already begun to price in an expected recovery in the first quarter of 2002, he said. 

 "I find it a bit disturbing why the Fed cut again," he said. 

 Joel Naroff of Naroff Economic Advisors said the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) may be finished cutting rates. 

 "Indeed, one can reasonably question why a 25 basis point cut was made," Naroff said. 

 "If the economy really needed more stimulus, why not give it some? A 25 basis point move does little to the economy. And if the economy doesnt need any more of a helping hand than the Fed has already given it, why not just say so and do nothing? 

 "The only explanation is that by going only 25 basis points, the FOMC is signaling its desire to end its rate cut cycle and we should take it as such." 

 Bill Sullivan at Morgan Stanley countered that the economy remains weak and may need more stimulus to come out of recession. 

 "It could all be a puff of smoke -- and the Fed I believe recognizes this when it says that signs of a recovery are 'preliminary' and 'tentative,'" he said. 

 "But if you were to finish that sentence it would probably say, 'and subject to reversal,'" he noted. 

 Sullivan went on to add that the Fed's comments on inflation were "a huge invitation for additional rate cuts." 

 General Electric closed down 15 cents to 36.65 after chairman and chief executive Jeffrey Immelt said he expects to meet analysts' fourth quarter earnings estimates. 

 McDonald's shed 52 cents to 26.50 after Lehman Brothers downgraded the stock. 

 Among big tech stocks, Cisco closed up 40 cents at 20.78, with Intel up 24 cents at 33.19 and Microsoft rising 26 cents to 67.32. 

 Motorola and wireless chip group Texas Instruments were higher after an upbeat earnings forecast from Finnish mobile phone giant Nokia, which said its profits for the current quarter could beat expectations. 

 Motorola was up 17 cents to 16.82 while Texas Instruments gained 15 cents to 31.05. 

 On the bond market, the yield on the 10-year Treasury bond eased to 5.057 percent from 5.092 percent Monday and on the 30-year bond to 5.549 percent from 5.558 percent. Bond yields and prices move in opposite directions. 

 bur-rl/sst 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPDFinancial | SEQN: 0852 | Federal Reserve Board   ANDocument afpr000020011211dxcb00gj9  



 HD Fed Seen Leaving Room for S-T Rate Cuts, Jawboning Long Rates.    BY By Steven K. Beckner    WC981 words   PD11 December 2001   ET21:57   SNMarket News International   SCMARNEW   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001. Market News International, Inc.
   LP Market News International - Although the Federal Reserve took short-term interest rates further into negative real territory and ever closer to zero Tuesday, few Fed watchers are prepared to say for sure the Fed is finished. 

 Indeed, many analysts fully expect the Fed to cut rates again when its policymaking Federal Open Market Committee meets again late January. 
   TD Although the Fed made note of indications that economic weakness is "abating" in announcing its latest rate reduction, it called those signs "preliminary and tentative." Moreover, the Fed downplayed inflation concerns in an unusual departure that caught analysts' attention. 

 The Fed not only left itself room for further short-term rate cuts but seems to be doing its best to dampen long-term rate pressures, some commented. 

 The Fed will not be quick to reverse its historic series of rate cuts, in the view of former Philadelphia Fed President Edward Boehne, among others. 

 Much as expected, the Fed announced a 25 basis point cut in its target for the benchmark federal funds rate to 1.75%. The last time the funds rate was that low was 1958. The Fed also cut its own lending rate, the discount rate, 25 basis points to 1.25%, lowest since 1948. 

 It was the eleventh rate cut of the year for a cumulative reduction of 475 basis points. The Fed left the door open to further action by saying the risks remain weighted toward "economic weakness." 

 Further explaining its actions in the non-boilerplate portion of its rate announcement, the Fed said, "Economic activity remains soft, with underlying inflation likely to edge lower from relatively modest levels." 

 "To be sure, weakness in demand show signs of abating, but those signs are preliminary and tentative," the statement continued. 

 The Fed added, "Although the necessary reallocation of resources to enhance security may restrain advances in productivity for a time, the long-term prospects for productivity growth and the economy remain favorable and should become evident once the unusual forces restraining demand abate. 

 "This is a Fed that sees inflation falling, that sees soft economic activity, and based on what Fed officials have said, they don't see a recovery coming quickly," said Richard Berner, chief economist for Morgan-Stanley Dean Witter, concluding "I think there is one more (rate cut) in the pipeline." He added he expects a 25 basis point cut in the funds rate to 1.5% at the Jan. 29-30, 2002 FOMC meeting. 

 "A lot can change in the next six weeks," Berner continued, adding that the Fed is "very close to the end" of credit easing. 

 Peter Hooper, chief U.S. economist for Deutsche Bank Securities, saw "a decent chance of one more 25 basis point cut," but said it will be "a close call" that will depend on whether or not there is further weakening of the labor market. 

 Referring to the Fed's statement on inflation and the tentative nature of firming demand, Hooper also observed that the Fed appears to be "doing its best not to encourage (longer term) rates to move up." 

 Christopher Rupkey, senior economist for Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi-UBSW, said he believes the Fed is "close to closing out this chapter of rate cuts" and said 1.75% would be "a nice stopping place." He said he expects the economy to begin turning around now that "inventories can't hurt us anymore, they can only help us." 

 Nevertheless, Rupkey said he expects one more 25 basis point rate cut in January "as an insurance move." 

 Rupkey read the Fed language about weak demand showing "signs of abating" as "the first step to them thinking the economy is close to turning around..." He described the Fed's expectation of lower inflation as "jawboning" - an effort to bring down bond yields. 

 Stuart Hoffman, chief economist for PNC Corp, was much more inclined than others to call an end to Fed rate cutting. "I think this is the final rate cut," he said, although he didn't completely rule out another move. 

 January will be a "show-me month" for the FOMC, said Hoffman, in that the Fed will be looking at holiday sales and employment to determine whether another rate cut is justified. He said a 12th move is "less likely." 

 Hoffman likewise noted the "interesting twists" in the Fed statement, particularly the new phraseology on inflation. By saying "underlying inflation (is) likely to edge lower from relatively modest levels," instead of merely reiterating its commitment to price stability," he said the statement "tells you they feel they have the flexibility" to ease credit. "They're not worried about the cumulative effect of money growth and rate cuts." 

 Hoffman put less emphasis on the Fed's signs of "abating" weakness in demand than on the fact that the Fed qualified itself by calling those signs called those signs "preliminary and tentative." 

 A hot topic even before the meeting was when the Fed will begin raising rates. Boehne, appearing on CNBC, said "whether the Fed goes down another notch or not, raising rates is a considerable distance off." 

 Berner said the Fed will need to "recalibrate monetary policy" at some point after recovery starts and said the Fed will have "a lot of work to do" in undoing its aggressive credit easing of the past year But he added, "given where inflation is, we don't need a rapid retracement." 

 The U.S. Chamber immediately praised the Fed's move. "With incipient signs that a turnaround is on its way, this latest found of interest rate cuts should go far in securing our economy against a continued slide," Chief Economist Martin Regalia said. "The recent interest rate cuts are sure to provide a boost to economic growth come early next year." 

 [TOPICS: M$U 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   ANDocument marnew0020011220dxcb004xw  



 HD Text - FOMC Statement on Tuesday's  Interest Rate  Cut.    WC428 words   PD11 December 2001   ET20:13   SNMarket News International   SCMARNEW   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001. Market News International, Inc.
   LP - FOMC's Nov. 6 Statement Follows for Comparison 

 WASHINGTON (MktNews) - The following statement was released Tuesday afternoon by the Federal Open Market Committee after its latest interest rate cut: 
   TD "The Federal Open Market Committee decided today to lower its target for the federal funds rate by 25 basis points to 1-3/4 percent. In a related action, the Board of Governors approved a 25 basis point reduction in the discount rate to 1-1/4 percent. 

 "Economic activity remains soft, with underlying inflation likely to edge lower from relatively modest levels. To be sure, weakness in demand show signs of abating, but those signs are preliminary and tentative. The Committee continues to believe that, against the background of its long-run goals of price stability and sustainable economic growth and of the information currently available, the risks are weighted mainly toward conditions that may generate economic weakness. 

 "Although the necessary reallocation of resources to enhance security may restrain advances in productivity for a time, the long-term prospects for productivity growth and the economy remain favorable and should become evident once the unusual forces restraining demand abate. 

 "In taking the discount rate action, the Federal Reserve Board approved the requests submitted by the Boards of Directors of the Federal Reserve Banks of Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Chicago and San Francisco." 

 *-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-* 

 The following is the statement released by the FOMC on Nov. 6: 

 "The Federal Open Market Committee decided today to lower its target for the federal funds rate by 50 basis points to 2 percent. In a related action, the Board of Governors approved a 50 basis point reduction in the discount rate to 1-1/2 percent. 

 "Heightened uncertainty and concerns about a deterioration in business conditions both here and abroad are damping economic activity. For the foreseeable future, then, the Committee continues to believe that, against the background of its long-run goals of price stability and sustainable economic growth and of the information currently available, the risks are weighted mainly toward conditions that may generate economic weakness. 

 "Although the necessary reallocation of resources to enhance security may restrain advances in productivity for a time, the long-term prospects for productivity growth and the economy remain favorable and should become evident once the unusual forces restraining demand abate. 

 "In taking the discount rate action, the Federal Reserve Board approved the request submitted by the Board of Directors of the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond." 

 ** Market News International Washington Bureau: (202) 371-2121 ** 

 [TOPICS: MMUFE$,MAUDT$,MAUDS$]. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPCWASHINGTON   ANDocument marnew0020011220dxcb004bm  



 HD UPDATE 2-Tumbling eurozone inflation may speed rate cuts.    BY By Brian Love    WC982 words   PD11 December 2001   ET22:20   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 Reuters Limited
   LP PARIS, Dec 11 (Reuters) - Euro-zone inflation may be falling faster than believed and is no longer a reason for the European Central Bank to hold back on interest rate cuts, economists said on Tuesday after news of a tumble in French consumer prices and before the Federal Reserve cut rates for the 11th time this year. 

 France announced a 0.3 percent decrease in November consumer prices. What surprised analysts was the extent to which the cost of everything from clothes to telecoms fell, not the latest fall in energy costs due to lower world oil prices. 
   TD "Market expectations are too conservative. We can now expect the ECB to cut its refinancing rate aggressively in 2002," said Emmanuel Ferry, an economist at Exane brokers in Paris, noting that markets until now only expected a modest cut next March. 

 In Washington, the Federal Reserve cut its short-term lending rate by a quarter percentage point, extending one of the most aggressive rate-cutting campaigns in its history as it tries to bring the economy out of recession. The Fed's move lowered the federal funds rate charged on overnight loans between banks to 1.75 percent, the lowest in 40 years. 

 In a statement explaining the decision, Fed policy-makers said economic risks remained tilted toward weakness and implied they will cut rates again if necessary. "Economic activity remains soft, with underlying inflation likely to edge lower from relatively modest levels," the Fed said in its statement. 

 Slower business and falling inflation opened the way for the ECB to reduce its key rate to 2.0 percent in the first six months of next year from 3.25 percent currently, starting with a first cut in February, Ferry said. 

 Britain, although not a member of the euro zone, underscored the idea that the economic downturn was rapidly wiping inflation pressures off the radar in Europe - reporting a mere 1.8 percent rise in November prices, the lowest level on record. 

 REVISING INFLATION ESTIMATES ALL ROUND 

 UBS Warburg economist Stephane Deo said he believed that the European Commission would cut its estimate of November inflation in the euro zone to 2.0 percent from 2.1 after the news from France, the second largest economy in the area after Germany. 

 That would mean inflation in the 12-nation currency area has already fallen at least to the upper limit tolerated by the ECB, and should go lower again in December, ahead of the next official ECB rate-policy meeting on January 3. 

 ECB President Wim Duisenberg and other ECB representatives have predicted that inflation would drop below two percent in early 2002 and Duisenberg has said this had already been taken into account by the ECB in recent rate cuts. 

 Economists stuck to the theory that the ECB will cut again after a last reduction on November 8, even though they expected it to hold off at its next official rate policy discussion on January 3 to focus instead on the introduction of euro notes and coins. 

 The U.S. Federal Reserve has cut more dramatically and more often, and was expected to announce another cut to 1.75 from 2.0 percent on Tuesday evening (1915 GMT). Many analysts believe the Fed can then afford to ease off or stop cutting rates. 

 TRICHET SEES RELATIVELY FAST REBOUND 

 Jean-Claude Trichet, head of the Bank of France and a member of the ECB council, said on Monday there was no reason why the ECB should do exactly like the Federal Reserve and that he expected a relatively rapid economic rebound in 2002. 

 Trichet stressed that consumer spending remained the driving force of the European economy and several economists noted that lower inflation would increase their spending power. 

 "The massive disinflation trend will be the driving force of growth in 2002," UBS Warburg's Stephane Deo said. 

 Speaking of France alone, he said: "We believe that a one percentage point drop in inflation adds 10 billion euros to purchasing power." 

 That was worth half of the total value of the government's 2001-2003 tax cut programme, which is believed to have been one of the linchpins of support for consumer spending since the U.S. slowdown fanned into Europe at the start of this year. 

 Trichet acknowledged that exports and business investment had responded far more badly to the slowdown and the extra hit following the September 11 attacks on the United States. 

 But, he also said: "Business leaders will definitely not say that interest rates pose a problem." He added that he expected the economies of Europe and the United States to rebound more quickly than some predicted during the course of 2002. 

 EURO HELPING FALL IN INFLATION NOW 

 One of the more noteworthy theories offered by experts for the French inflation fall in November was that the advent of the euro might be helping. 

 While there were popular fears inflation would be fuelled by price mark-ups when euro notes and coins circulate on January 1, several economists argued that price rises had already been digested. 

 "What we're seeing now is a total reverse in what everyone expected ahead of the euro debut; retailers understood that the euro would add new pressures for competitiveness, so they chose to push prices down to attract customers," said Marc Touati, an economist at Natexis Banques Populaires. 

 Major French supermarkets and retailers agreed earlier this year to freeze prices during the euro switchover, and there has been anecdotal evidence that some raised prices after the summer to make sure they could afford to hold their fire in early 2002. 

 That lends credence to the idea that mark-ups in prices and any inflationary impact from the change is already history and that prices will keep falling after "E-day," January 1, 2002. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | e52 : Euro Zone/Currency | ecat : Economic News   REeurz : Europe | fra : France | gfr : Germany | medz : Mediterranean | namz : North America | uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | weurz : Western Europe   ANDocument lba0000020011211dxcb00yq4  



 HD UPDATE 5-INSTANT VIEW-FX/DEBT-Fed cuts rates 25 bps to 1.75 pct.    WC298 words   PD11 December 2001   ET20:38   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 Reuters Limited
   LP NEW YORK, Dec 11 (Reuters) - Following are comments from economists and market experts after the Federal Reserve cut short-term interest rates by a quarter of a percentage point to 1.75 percent, their lowest level in 40 years. 

 TIM O'NEILL, CHIEF ECONOMIST, BANK OF MONTREAL/HARRIS BANK, TORONTO: 
   TD "What it indicates is they are clearly leaving the door open for at least one more rate cut, I don't think there will be another one ... and they will wait to see what the data bring them in the next month and a half." 

 O'Neill was speaking on Reuters Television. 

 CARY LEAHY, SENIOR U.S. ECONOMIST, DEUTSCHE BANC ALEX. BROWN, NEW YORK: 

 "As expected, they did say weakness in demand shows signs of abating. There are only two new sentences in the statement. I don't think there are any surprises here. People are expecting another cut and they're done. Prospects for a recovery are developing but are still very uncertain." 

 DOMINIC KONSTAM, HEAD OF INTEREST-RATE STRATEGY, CREDIT SUISSE FIRST BOSTON, NEW YORK: 

 "The front end of the curve tried to rally a little bit and there was a trade down in the belly of the curve. It was a very muted reaction. We expect the Fed to cut rates another quarter percentage point in January and for federal funds to be at 1.5 percent in the middle of 2002. We're looking for a recovery in the third quarter of next year." 

 COREY REDFIELD, CHIEF FIXED-INCOME STRATEGIST, US BANCORP PIPEr???LIS: 

 "The cut was pretty much as expected. I'm in the camp that says we're done, even thouzz says we're done, even thouzz. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | ntra : Transcript   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   ANDocument lba0000020011211dxcb00y43  



 HD UPDATE 1-INSTANT VIEW-FX/DEBT-Fed cuts rates 25 bps to 1.75 pct.    WC263 words   PD11 December 2001   ET20:22   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 Reuters Limited
   LP NEW YORK, Dec 11 (Reuters) - Following are comments from economists and market experts after the Federal Reserve cut short-term interest rates by a quarter of a percentage point to 1.75 percent, their lowest level in 40 years. 

 TIM O'NEILL, CHIEF ECONOMIST, BANK OF MONTREAL/HARRIS BANK, TORONTO: 
   TD "What it indicates is they are clearly leaving the door open for at least one more rate cut, I don't think there will be another one ... and they will wait to see what the data bring them in the next month and a half." 

 O'Neill was speaking on Reuters Television. 

 CARY LEAHY, SENIOR U.S. ECONOMIST, DEUTSCHE BANC ALEX. BROWN, NEW YORK: 

 "As expected, they did say weakness in demand shows signs of abating. There are only two new sentences in the statement. I don't think there are any surprises here. People are expecting another cut and they're done. Prospects for a recovery are developing but are still very uncertain." 

 DOMINIC KONSTAM, HEAD OF INTEREST-RATE STRATEGY, CREDIT SUISSE FIRST BOSTON, NEW YORK: 

 "The front end of the curve tried to rally a little bit and there was a trade down in the belly of the curve. It was a very muted reaction. We expect the Fed to cut rates another quarter percentage point in January and for federal funds to be at 1.5 percent in the middle of 2002. We're looking for a recovery in the third quarter of next year." 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | ntra : Transcript   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   ANDocument lba0000020011211dxcb00xz2  



 HD TEXT-FOMC statement on  interest rate  policy.    WC234 words   PD11 December 2001   ET20:17   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 Reuters Limited
   LP WASHINGTON, Dec 11 (Reuters) - The following is the full text of the 

 Federal Open Market Committee's statement issued on Tuesday at the close of its 
   TD meeting on interest rate policy: 

 "The Federal Open Market Committee decided today to lower its target for 

 the federal funds rate by 25 basis points to 1-3/4 percent. In a related 

 action, the Board of Governors approved a 25 basis point reduction in the 

 discount rate to 1-1/4 percent. 

 Economic activity remains soft, with underlying inflation likely to edge 

 lower from relatively modest levels. To be sure, weakness in demand shows 

 signs of abating, but those signs are preliminary and tentative. The 

 Committee continues to believe that, against the background of its 

 long-run goals of price stability and sustainable economic growth and of 

 the information currently available, the risks are weighted mainly toward 

 conditions that may generate economic weakness in the foreseeable future. 

 Although the necessary reallocation of resources to enhance security may 

 restrain advances in productivity for a time, the long-term prospects for 

 productivity growth and the economy remain favorable and should become 

 evident once the unusual forces restraining demand abate. 

 In taking the discount rate action, the Federal Reserve Board approved 

 the requests submitted by the Boards of Directors of the Federal Reserve

 Banks of Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Chicago and San Francisco." 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | ntra : Transcript   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   ANDocument lba0000020011211dxcb00xyq  



 HD UPDATE 4-Fed cuts U.S. interest rates a quarter point.    BY By Glenn Somerville    WC1,022 words   PD12 December 2001   ET00:02   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 Reuters Limited
   LP WASHINGTON, Dec 11 (Reuters) - The Federal Reserve cut U.S. interest rates a quarter percentage point Tuesday, extending one of the most aggressive rate-cutting campaigns in its history as it tries to lift the economy out of recession. 

 Fed policymakers said the economy was soft and there were only tentative signs weak demand was firming - a statement some analysts took to mean the rate-easing cycle was not yet over. 
   TD The widely expected cut lowered the federal funds rate charged on overnight loans between banks to 1.75 percent, the lowest in 40 years. It was the 11th rate reduction by the U.S. central bank this year, a bold bid to boost consumer and business confidence with unemployment at a six-year high. 

 In a statement explaining the decision, policymakers said economic risks remained tilted toward weakness, implying they will cut rates again if necessary even though - according to one measure of inflation - the real interest rate now stands below zero in inflation-adjusted terms. 

 "Economic activity remains soft, with underlying inflation likely to edge lower from relatively modest levels," the Fed said. "To be sure, weakness in demand shows signs of abating, but those signs are preliminary and tentative." 

 The fed funds rate is the U.S. central bank's key tool for setting the nation's monetary policy and signals the direction it wishes business and consumer lending rates to follow. 

 The Fed also lowered its more symbolic discount rate by a matching quarter percentage point to 1.25 percent. 

 ANALYSTS LEFT SCRATCHING HEADS 

 Analysts had widely divergent opinions on how to interpret the Fed decision and the relatively sparse explanation offered by policymakers. 

 "I'm struck by the pessimistic tone of the statement," said economist Sung Won Sohn of Wells Fargo & Co. in Minneapolis. "The Fed seems clearly to be concerned about economic weakness spreading and mushrooming, so they've not only cut rates today but left the door wide open for another cut in January." 

 Others said the prolonged easing, which has taken the federal funds rate down 4-3/4 percentage points this year for the sharpest decline in the funds rate since the deep recession of 1982, was nearly finished. 

 The said the Fed's reference to the "abating" of demand weakness was an early signal from policymakers. 

 "We believe that there will in all probability be another interest rate cut at the Jan. 29-30 FOMC meeting, although the series of rate decreases is in our view nearing its end," said economist Bruce Steinberg of Merrill Lynch & Co. in New York. 

 U.S. retail sales jumped 7.1 percent in October after falling 2.1 percent in September, but largely due to surging new-car sales prompted by price discounts and financing incentives that analysts said were unlikely to be sustained. 

 And the key holiday shopping season has not been especially cheery so far. 

 According to two reports released on Tuesday, retail sales at U.S. chain stores fell last week as Americans spent cautiously despite the upcoming holidays. 

 Sales slipped 0.4 percent during the week ended Dec. 8, after a 1.7 percent drop a week earlier, the Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi and UBS Warburg said. Instinet's Redbook Retail Sales Average fell 4.5 percent in the week ended Dec. 8 versus the same period in November. 

 Bond prices initially spiked higher after the Fed decision was announced, but eased later on the belief the Fed reference to weakness abating suggested that it saw an economic turnaround by mid-2002. That could mean not only that the rate-cutting cycle was over or nearly over, but also that policymakers might have to start pushing rates up next year. 

 Share prices were mixed, with the Dow Jones industrial average ending down 33.08 points at 9,888.37 while the high tech-laden Nasdaq composite index added 9.81 points to close at 2,001.93. 

 Most economists forecast a recovery beginning in the first half of next year and think, with the Fed running out of room to keep easing, the rate-cutting cycle must end soon. 

 David Jones, an economist with Aubrey G. Lanston & Co. in New York, said he thought the Fed was offering "a glimmer of hope" about a consumer-spending fueled economic pickup ahead and said he saw only one potential rate reduction left. 

 "The bottom line is that while the Fed has left room for perhaps yet another quarter-point cut by the time of the next FOMC meeting on January 29-30, I think we're getting near the end of the long string of rate cuts," Jones said. 

 FED'S EFFORT A COMPLEX ONE 

 The Fed's rate-cut effort has been an attempt to bolster an economy which was already weak before the Sept. 11 attacks and seen in danger of crumbling afterward. Policymakers have also been keen to add impetus to a few fledgling signs of recovery. 

 Tuesday's meeting was the eighth and final scheduled Federal Open Market Committee gathering of 2001. The Fed reduced rates at each of these and also lowered borrowing costs three times this year between scheduled meetings, starting January 3, to address persistently weak economic conditions. 

 Analysts said policymakers were trying to keep consumer hopes for the future intact, since consumer spending fuels two-thirds of national economic activity. 

 There have been flickers of hope in recent economic data, which the Fed wants to fan as much as it can through rate reductions. Any boost it can give consumer and business confidence should increase chances the current recession, which began in March, will be relatively brief. 

 The University of Michigan's consumer sentiment index bounced higher for a third straight month in December while October factory orders - including orders for costly and long-lasting durable goods - climbed strongly with inventories at low levels. That has led most analysts to forecast a recession that is mild, ending by mid-2002, with some saying the downturn already is bottoming out. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   ANDocument lba0000020011211dxcb00v1x  



 HD Fed cuts key  interest rate  by a quarter-point, to lowest level since July 1961    BY By JEANNINE AVERSA    CRAssociated Press Writer   WC768 words   PD11 December 2001   ET20:19   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY Copyright 2001.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved. 
   LP WASHINGTON (AP) - The Federal Reserve cut a key interest rate Tuesday for the 11th time this year to 1.75 percent - the lowest in 40 years - in an attempt to keep the economy from sinking further into recession. The quarter-point reduction was less than the half-point cuts the central bank had been making since the Sept. 11 attacks. 

 The Fed's cut is aimed at bolstering the economy, which has been in recession since March and was dealt another severe blow by the terrorist attacks. In their aftermath, consumer confidence has plunged, layoffs have rocketed and unemployment soared, hitting 5.7 percent in November. 
   TD Economists hope that lowering borrowing costs will persuade consumers and businesses to spend and invest. 

 On Tuesday after their last scheduled meeting of the year, Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan and his colleagues announced they were cutting the target for the federal funds rates, the interest banks charge each other on overnight loans, to 1.75 percent, the lowest since July 1961. 

 The Fed, in explaining its rate cut said: "To be sure weakness in demand shows signs of abating, but those signs are preliminary and tentative." 

 Some economists interpreted this comment as suggesting that the Fed's string of rate cuts may be drawing to a close. "I think they sense the economy is finding a bottom and will begin to turn upward by early next year," said Mark Zandi, chief economist at Economy.com. "With a little bit of luck, this will probably be the last rate cut that they will have to implement," he added. 

 Other analysts, however, guessed there might be another rate cut at the Fed's next meeting in late January. 

 In response to the Fed's action Tuesday, M&T Bank announced it was reducing its prime lending rates, the benchmark for millions of consumer and business loans, by a similar quarter-point to 4.75 percent, the lowest since November 1965. Other commercial banks were expected to follow suit. 

 Tuesday's quarter-point cut in the federal funds rate marked the fourth reduction since the terror attacks, but the three previous cuts were each by a bigger half-point. The last rate cut came Nov. 6. 

 After the Fed's announcement, stocks gained ground. The Dow Jones industrial average was up 84 points and the Nasdaq rose 38 points in late afternoon trading. 

 Financial markets had expected the smaller quarter-point cut, believing the central bank would make the switch in an effort to signal that the string of rate cuts may be drawing to a close. 

 However, in the part of the statement that reflects possible future action, policy-makers left the door open to further rate cuts should the recession show signs of lingering. 

 The Fed also decided to cut its discount rate, the interest that the Fed charges to make direct loans to banks, by a quarter-point to 1.25 percent, the lowest level on record. 

 The Fed's credit easing, which started Jan. 3, has reduced the federal funds rate by 4.75 percentage points in the past year. That is the most aggressive string of rate reductions in a 12-month period since 1981, when the central bank was trying to pull the country out of the worst recession since the Great Depression. 

 The Fed's actions this year were not enough to prevent the United States from falling into its first recession in a decade. The National Bureau of Economic Research recently declared that the recession began in March. The group said that without the terror attacks, the slowdown might not have been bad enough to qualify as a full-blown downturn. 

 In the Fed's brief statement, Greenspan and his colleagues said that "economic activity remains soft, with underlying inflation likely to edge lower from relatively modest levels." 

 One of the reasons the Fed has had the room to cut rates so aggressively is because inflation has remained under control. 

 The Bush administration, meanwhile, is pushing Congress to pass this year a package of tax cuts and increased government spending to revive the economy. The economic stimulus package, however, has been hung up in partisan wrangling. 

 Treasury Secretary Paul O'Neill was dispatched to Capitol Hill Tuesday with a new offer on jobless aid that goes well beyond the limited grants to states that President George W. Bush initially proposed, White House officials said. 

 --- 

 On the Net: 

Federal Reserve: http://www.federalreserve.gov
   RFRush   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States | usw : Western U.S. | uswa : Washington   IPCsldw2804 | selwstm- | tagwsfiler   IPDFinancial/Business | AP Worldstream | BC-US-Fed-Interest Rates | 39279bba1e9d5a926445de72f40a16fd   ANDocument aprs000020011211dxcb01tgf  



 HD Fed cuts rates for 11th time, but smaller quarter-point move seen as signal rate reductions nearing an end    BY By MARTIN CRUTSINGER    CRAP Economics Writer   WC809 words   PD11 December 2001   ET20:19   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY Copyright 2001.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved. 
   LP WASHINGTON (AP) - The Federal Reserve cut interest rates on Tuesday for the 11th time this year, capping its most aggressive string of rate cuts since the early 1980s. 

 However, in its latest move, the Fed cut a key interest rate by just a quarter-point rather than the bolder half-point moves the central bank has favored for most of this year. 
   TD Many economists saw this change as a clear signal that Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan and his colleagues believe they have done enough to lift the country out of its first recession in a decade. 

 Economists did not totally rule out one more quarter-point move at the Fed's next meeting in early January as an insurance policy, but they said that rate reduction would occur only if economic statistics in the next month come in much worse than expected. 

 "I think the Fed senses the economy is finding a bottom and will begin to turn upward by early next year," said Mark Zandi, chief economist at Economy.com. 

 Wall Street received an initial lift from the Fed announcement, but those gains were lost after a disappointing earnings forecast from drug giant Merck. The Dow Jones industrial average finished the day down 33.08 at 9,888.37, its fourth straight losing session. 

 In its statement, the Fed said that "weakness in demand shows signs of abating" although it cautioned that as of yet those signs remained "preliminary and tentative." 

 The Fed's latest action pushed its target for the federal funds rate, the interest that banks charge each other, down to a 40-year low of 1.75 percent. The Fed also reduced its discount rate, the interest it charges to lend money directly to banks, by a quarter-point to 1.25 percent, the lowest level on record. 

 Commercial banks immediately matched the Fed's rate reductions by lowering their prime lending rate, the benchmark rate for millions of consumer and business loans, to 4.75 percent, the lowest level since November 1965. 

 The Fed's hope is that the low borrowing costs will spur consumer spending and business investments, which will in turn trigger American factories to ramp up production. 

 In addition to easier credit from the Fed, President Bush is urging Congress to pass close to $100 billion in additional tax cuts for individuals and businesses, which administration officials contend would boost employment by 300,000 next year and lift economic growth by one-half percentage point. 

 The plan has been stalemated in Congress for weeks because of Democratic demands that the package include less in tax cuts for the wealthy and corporations and more support for unemployed and low-income workers. 

 However, the administration made a compromise offer on Tuesday that could lead to the stalemate being resolved. 

 "Movement toward a possible compromise on the stimulus package may be the best news of all from the point of view of business confidence," said David Jones, chief economist at Aubrey G. Lanston & Co. in New York. 

 Jones and other analysts said if Congress does pass a stimulus package before Christmas and the economy shows further signs of stabilizing, the Fed will leave rates unchanged at its next meeting at the end of January. 

 Beginning last Jan. 3, the Fed has reduced its target for the federal funds rate from 6.5 percent down to 1.75 percent, the lowest level since July 1961. 

 The 4.75 percentage points in total cuts this year represents the largest reduction in the space of a year since the Fed slashed the funds rate by 6.7 percentage points in the space of just six months in late 1981 as it battled the country's worst recession since the Great Depression. 

 Some economists had been predicting that the central bank might leave rates unchanged at Tuesday's meeting, given some tentative signals of an upturn in stronger-than-expected auto sales and a big jump in factory orders. 

 However, that view changed when the government reported last Friday that the unemployment rate shot up to a six-year high of 5.7 percent in November as another 331,000 Americans lost jobs, capping two months when the labor market in such travel-related industries as airlines and hotels was devastated by the fallout from the terrorist attacks. 

 "The Fed is clearly nearing the end for rate cuts, but policy-makers remain mindful that a number of downside risks still remain," said David Wyss, chief economist at Standard & Poor's in New York. "Given the terrorist threat that is still out there, the chances of something going wrong remains high." 

 --- 

 On the Net: 

Federal Reserve: http://www.federalreserve.gov
   RFRush   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States | usdc : Washington DC | uss : Southern U.S. | usw : Western U.S. | uswa : Washington   IPCsldp0747 | sel----- | tagdsp   IPDWashington | AP National News | BC-Fed-Interest Rates | 5fd4e44fc8ad9fc9faa7118a0765072e   ANDocument aprs000020011211dxcb01tge  



 HD Fed cuts rates for 11th time, but smaller quarter-point move seen as signal rate reductions nearing an end    BY By MARTIN CRUTSINGER    CRAP Economics Writer   WC809 words   PD11 December 2001   ET20:16   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY Copyright 2001.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved. 
   LP WASHINGTON (AP) - The Federal Reserve cut interest rates on Tuesday for the 11th time this year, capping its most aggressive string of rate cuts since the early 1980s. 

 However, in its latest move, the Fed cut a key interest rate by just a quarter-point rather than the bolder half-point moves the central bank has favored for most of this year. 
   TD Many economists saw this change as a clear signal that Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan and his colleagues believe they have done enough to lift the country out of its first recession in a decade. 

 Economists did not totally rule out one more quarter-point move at the Fed's next meeting in early January as an insurance policy, but they said that rate reduction would occur only if economic statistics in the next month come in much worse than expected. 

 "I think the Fed senses the economy is finding a bottom and will begin to turn upward by early next year," said Mark Zandi, chief economist at Economy.com. 

 Wall Street received an initial lift from the Fed announcement, but those gains were lost after a disappointing earnings forecast from drug giant Merck. The Dow Jones industrial average finished the day down 33.08 at 9,888.37, its fourth straight losing session. 

 In its statement, the Fed said that "weakness in demand shows signs of abating" although it cautioned that as of yet those signs remained "preliminary and tentative." 

 The Fed's latest action pushed its target for the federal funds rate, the interest that banks charge each other, down to a 40-year low of 1.75 percent. The Fed also reduced its discount rate, the interest it charges to lend money directly to banks, by a quarter-point to 1.25 percent, the lowest level on record. 

 Commercial banks immediately matched the Fed's rate reductions by lowering their prime lending rate, the benchmark rate for millions of consumer and business loans, to 4.75 percent, the lowest level since November 1965. 

 The Fed's hope is that the low borrowing costs will spur consumer spending and business investments, which will in turn trigger American factories to ramp up production. 

 In addition to easier credit from the Fed, President Bush is urging Congress to pass close to $100 billion in additional tax cuts for individuals and businesses, which administration officials contend would boost employment by 300,000 next year and lift economic growth by one-half percentage point. 

 The plan has been stalemated in Congress for weeks because of Democratic demands that the package include less in tax cuts for the wealthy and corporations and more support for unemployed and low-income workers. 

 However, the administration made a compromise offer on Tuesday that could lead to the stalemate being resolved. 

 "Movement toward a possible compromise on the stimulus package may be the best news of all from the point of view of business confidence," said David Jones, chief economist at Aubrey G. Lanston & Co. in New York. 

 Jones and other analysts said if Congress does pass a stimulus package before Christmas and the economy shows further signs of stabilizing, the Fed will leave rates unchanged at its next meeting at the end of January. 

 Beginning last Jan. 3, the Fed has reduced its target for the federal funds rate from 6.5 percent down to 1.75 percent, the lowest level since July 1961. 

 The 4.75 percentage points in total cuts this year represents the largest reduction in the space of a year since the Fed slashed the funds rate by 6.7 percentage points in the space of just six months in late 1981 as it battled the country's worst recession since the Great Depression. 

 Some economists had been predicting that the central bank might leave rates unchanged at Tuesday's meeting, given some tentative signals of an upturn in stronger-than-expected auto sales and a big jump in factory orders. 

 However, that view changed when the government reported last Friday that the unemployment rate shot up to a six-year high of 5.7 percent in November as another 331,000 Americans lost jobs, capping two months when the labor market in such travel-related industries as airlines and hotels was devastated by the fallout from the terrorist attacks. 

 "The Fed is clearly nearing the end for rate cuts, but policy-makers remain mindful that a number of downside risks still remain," said David Wyss, chief economist at Standard & Poor's in New York. "Given the terrorist threat that is still out there, the chances of something going wrong remains high." 

 --- 

 On the Net: 

Federal Reserve: http://www.federalreserve.gov
   RFRush   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States | usdc : Washington DC | uss : Southern U.S. | usw : Western U.S. | uswa : Washington   IPCslda0795 | sel----- | tagdsa   IPDWashington | AP National News | BC-Fed-Interest Rates | 5fd4e44fc8ad9fc9faa7118a0765072e   ANDocument aprs000020011211dxcb01tg7  



 HDLEADER - Living on borrowed time.   WC645 words   PD11 December 2001   SNFinancial Times   SCFTFT   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPThe money markets speakwith one voice. The Federal Reserve will reduce interest rates again today for the 11th time thisyear: one cut for every scheduledmeeting of the Federal Open Market Committee, plus three impromptu reductions.

Continued weak data underpin the case for looser monetary policy. Though some surveys of business and consumer confidence have improved in recent weeks, they are not yet reflected in hard figures.
   TDJob losses have pushed the unemployment rate up from below 4 per cent a year ago to 5.7 per cent in November. The growth of wage and salary income has more than halved over the year. And inflationary pressures are weak: although the price level is 3.4 per cent higher than a year ago, it is no longer rising.

The second broad consensus on Wall Street is that the economy is poised for recovery in the middle of next year. That confidence also sits on reasonably firm foundations. After so much destocking in 2001, the end of the inventory cycle cannot be far off, so companies should restart production lines soon. And if interest rates do indeed fall to 1.75 per cent today, the real rate of interest, comparing nominal rates with expected inflation, will turn negative. Free money for borrowers has ended recessions quickly in the past.

There we have it. It is a simple story of terrible times in 2001 - a hangover from the technology excesses of the previous years - followed by recovery and stable growth far into the future. As the Fed repeats every month: "The long-term prospects for productivity growth and the economy remain favourable and should become evident once the unusual forces restraining demand abate."

Nagging questions

Yet nagging questions remain. Where will the rebound in US growth come from? How sustainable will the recovery be? New research from HSBC shows that three potential sources of sustained US growth are unlikely.

First, a new surge in corporate investment seems far off, given the recent huge decline in capacity utilisation to levels last seen in the early 1980s. With profits as a share of national income having fallen every year since 1997, companies have added reasons to be cautious.

Drag on economy

Second, the rest of the world is unlikely to come to rescue the US economy. US exports are falling faster than imports, adding an extra drag on the economy. Unfortunately, there are few solid signs of any turnround here.

Third, government action is unlikely to provide sufficient stimulus. A fiscal package that is crawling through Congress could add about 1 per cent to gross domestic product this year. But fiscal expansion and private savings are often linked. If consumers believe that greater government borrowing simply implies future taxes, as they have in Japan in the past decade, increased private saving will tend to offset government spending or tax cuts.

So the spotlight falls again on consumers. They are the most likely source of short-run growth. But the last US upswing was also driven, to a large extent, by household and corporate borrowing alongside rapidly rising real asset values. And now debt levels are high and private sector balance sheets are vulnerable; this is not sustainable.

The implication is that any US recovery will be weak and slow. Large interest rate cuts, which generate rapid increases in private borrowing, may simply replace a recession now with a deeper one later.

So for all the certainty in the markets, the Fed faces a difficult decision today. This is no criticism of its actions. That this decision is tricky reflects the fact that it has been broadly right up to now. A quarter-point cut today seems appropriate given the lack of inflation. But the Fed must accompany the move with a statement showing that it is aware of the deeper risks for the US economy. 
   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPCFederal Reserve USA | Unemployment | Comment &Analysis | Economic News | Interest Rates | Economic Indicators | United States of America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument ftft000020011211dxcb0003l  



 HDFed set to cut  interest rate  for eleventh time.   BYBy GERARD BAKER AND PERONET DESPEIGNES IN WASHINGTON.    WC410 words   PD11 December 2001   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPThe Federal Reserve is expected to lower interest rates on Tuesday for the eleventh time this year, driving them to levels not seen over any extended period in more than four decades.

At its last scheduled meeting of a tumultuous year, the Fed's policy-making open market committee is expected to cut its key short-term interest rate from its current 2 per cent.
   TDPrices in financial futures markets on Monday indicated the expectation among investors that the Fed would end its recent run of half-point rate cuts and opt instead for a quarter-point reduction. That would reflect tentative signs that the economy was stabilising from its year-long slide into recession.

There has been growing speculation among economists and investors that Tuesday's expected rate cut could be the last in the current cycle, with markets indicating the probability that the central bank would be raising rates again early next year.

But the Fed continues to confront evidence of economic weakness, including the recent official declaration that the US is in a full-blown recession and bad news on employment.

Following last Friday's report from the labour department that showed the jobless rate rose to a six-year high in November, traders have begun to consider the slight possibility that the Fed might cut rates a half-point to 1.5 per cent, a level not sustained over any lengthy period since the 1950s.

Depending on the measure of inflation or inflation expectations used, real (inflation-adjusted) short-term interest rates in the US could be driven to less than zero for the first time since the 1990-91 recession.

Financial markets have rallied over the past two months on speculation that the US recession, which began in March, will be short and mild. But investors' doubts were renewed by the disappointing unemployment figures, which showed few signs of any let-up in the rapid erosion of employment this year.

According to the Montreal-based Bank Credit Analyst Research Group, financial conditions remain overly tight.

"The Fed's reflationary efforts are being countered by powerful economic headwinds caused by the unwinding of the excesses built up during the 1990s," it said in a recent report. "We expect the Fed to take the view that the risks of being too tight will far outweigh those of being too stimulative." 
   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REeurz : Europe | namz : North America | uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | weurz : Western Europe   IPCFederal Reserve USA | Forecasts &Predictions | Economic News | Interest Rates | General News | Economic Indicators   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument ftcom00020011211dxcb0006d  



 HD UPDATE 1-Fed to cut rates again to spur economy-BMA survey.    WC515 words   PD10 December 2001   ET22:35   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 Reuters Limited
   LP NEW YORK, Dec 10 (Reuters) - The U.S. Federal Reserve will likely cut interest rates by another quarter percentage point Tuesday, while rising unemployment is likely to average 6.1 percent in 2002, a survey of bond dealers showed on Monday. 

 The Bond Market Association's Economic Advisory Committee forecast the U.S. economy will contract through the first quarter of 2002 before growing again by the second quarter. 
   TD "Most members of the Committee had expected economic growth to accelerate in the second half of this year, but the (Sept. 11) terrorist attacks dramatically altered the economic landscape for the last two quarters of 2001," the twice-yearly BMA report said. 

 The committee forecast a "modest" return to growth in Gross Domestic Product (GDP) in the second quarter, which would accelerate to between 3.5 percent and 4 percent in the second half of the year. 

 William Dudley, chair of the Committee and director of U.S. economic research at Goldman Sachs said based on those GDP forecasts, the unemployment rate will peak in mid-2002 at about 6.5 percent. 

 GDP is expected to contract by 0.3 percent in 2001, as measured from the fourth quarter of the previous year. But GDP growth is seen resuming in the second quarter and is expected to average 2.5 percent for 2002. 

 The BMA's findings represent a consensus forecast of 24 economists at member securities firms and banks. Forecasts were compiled and analyzed last week. 

 Just two of the 24 members expected the Fed to stand pat on Tuesday and most of the committee expects the rate to trough at 1.5 percent. 

 Most committee members anticipated the Fed would begin to tighten monetary policy later in 2002, but disagreed about the timing and magnitude of interest rate hikes. 

 Forecasts for the fed funds rate - currently at 2.0 percent - ranged from 1.25 percent to 3.50 percent by late next year, Dudley said. 

 The BMA expects inflation to remain benign in 2002, at 2 percent. 

 Treasury bond issuance is expected to rise in 2002 with the increase concentrated in shorter-dated maturities. The BMA committee also expects municipal bond issuance to rise, or remain at current strong levels, as declining tax revenues will force states and localities to finance budget deficits. 

 Turning to mortgage rates, the committee's consensus forecast for 30-year fixed-rate home mortgages is 7.20 percent for December 2002, up from the 6.83 percent projected for year-end 2001. 

 The BMA economic panel expects new home sales to remain flat at 900,000 units, while sales of existing homes are expected to decline by 200,000 from 5.2 million as of December 2001. 

 Asset-backed issuance is likely to remain strong in 2002, the BMA survey showed, with asset-backeds tied to auto loans picking up following strong car and truck sales. 

 The Bond Market Association represents securities firms and banks that underwrite, trade and sell bonds in the international and domestic markets. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   ANDocument lba0000020011210dxca013tt  



 HD US Fed seen cutting rates quarter point this week.    BY By Marjorie Olster    WC957 words   PD10 December 2001   ET04:24   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 Reuters Limited
   LP NEW YORK, Dec 9 (Reuters) - The Federal Reserve, still unsure whether the U.S. economy has started to pull out of recession, is widely expected to shave another quarter percentage point off key interest rates this week and drop them to levels not seen since the 1950s. 

 The U.S. central bank's policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) meets on Tuesday to consider the final rate cut of a difficult year that saw the end of a 10-year economic expansion and beginning of a recession in March. 
   TD The 24 leading government bond dealers on Wall Street unanimously predict the FOMC will lower the benchmark federal funds rate on overnight bank lending by a quarter point, to 1.75 percent, according to a Reuters poll conducted Friday. 

 The Fed has already slashed the rate 10 times this year by a total of 4.50 percentage points, and at 2.0 percent it is now at a 40-year low. 

 Half a dozen Fed officials, in the weeks leading up to the meeting, have hinted strongly they do not think the recovery is at hand. With the near-term outlook still murky, the view is that more rate cuts are in the offing. 

 "What we don't know is are we at the turn, have we reached the turn," New York Fed President William McDonough said on Thursday. 

 Central bankers are confident their aggressive interest rate cuts this year, combined with massive fiscal stimulus from government tax cuts and government spending, will eventually stir the world's largest economy to grow next year - even if they're not sure just when that will happen. 

 DELAY ON STIMULUS PACKAGE 

 Talks in Congress on the fiscal stimulus plans were put off indefinitely on Friday, giving the Fed even more incentive to keep up its efforts to get the economy back on track. 

 Not only are policymakers unable to say when the turnaround will come - mid-year 2002 is their best guess of many - but they also don't know how vigorously the economy will snap back. The Fed will also have one eye on the global economy, which is under considerable strain. 

 Fully 16 of the 24 dealers polled on Friday expected at least one more quarter-point rate cut early next year, which would bring the funds rate to 1.5 percent. That will probably be the low point for the cycle and many expect rates to stay there for some time. 

 The bond market has been buffeted in recent weeks by a number of crosscurrents in the economic outlook. 

 Last week, Fed officials hinted strongly that more rate cuts were coming, which sent bond prices higher and market interest rates lower. 

 Governor Laurence Meyer made the biggest impression with his remark that it would be "misguided" for the Fed to conserve its ammunition and hold back on further easing in case the downturn turns out to be more serious or in case there are further negative shocks like the Sept. 11 attacks. 

 The latest economic data were a mixed bag, though, and did not clarify whether the worst is behind. 

 The November employment report showed 331,000 jobs were lost outside the farm sector, far greater than the 189,000-job reduction Wall Street had expected and pushing the unemployment rate up to 5.7 percent from 5.4 percent. A total of 1.2 million jobs have been lost since the recession began in March. 

 FORWARD-LOOKING REPORTS 

 But economists are always quick to point out that employment is a lagging indicator that tells more about where we have been than where we are going. 

 Reports from the National Association of Purchasing Management on the manufacturing and services sectors in November, two indices considered more forward-looking, were released earlier in the week and both showed improvement, raising optimism for a recovery. 

 Consumer spending shot up by a record 2.9 percent in October, adding to revival hopes. But it was largely attributed to aggressive discounting by automakers and zero-percent financing. 

 The University of Michigan consumer sentiment index for December, released on Friday, improved for the third straight month. 

 Investors sold bonds aggressively this week, sending prices lower and market rates higher, in the apparent belief that a recovery may be imminent and that will eventually force the Fed to start raising rates to curb potential inflation. 

 Economists said this "recovery trade" was causing some concern at the Fed because it drives up long-term market rates that often translate into more expensive home mortgages and corporate borrowing. This hampers the Fed's efforts to stimulate the economy through lower rates. 

 "Some people have begun to say the recession is diminishing in force and I think those conclusions are premature. We can look for 25 basis points on Tuesday next week," said Carol Stone, deputy chief economist at Nomura Securities International Inc. 

 "We're in a recession and it is exacerbated by one of the greatest catastrophes ever experienced in this country," Stone said, referring to the aftermath of the Sept. 11 attacks. "We don't think growth will come back so vigorously." 

 President George W. Bush's first two nominees to the seven-member Fed Board of Governors were sworn in on Friday and plan to attend their first FOMC meeting Tuesday. New governors Susan Bies and Mark Olson will vote on all Fed rate decisions. 

 Fed Governor Edward Kelley, who announced this summer his intention to step down once a replacement had been approved, will not attend the meeting, the Fed said. That leaves the 19-member FOMC panel - seven governors and 12 regional bank presidents - still down one governor. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   ANDocument lba0000020011210dxca006y1  



 CLMCredit Markets   HD Foreign Investors, Mortgage Holders Are Scrambling As Bonds Swoon    BY By Gregory Zuckerman    CRStaff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal   WC1,512 words   PD10 December 2001   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGC1   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 2001, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP For most of the year, bond traders like Scott Gewirtz were Wall Street saviors. 

 With stocks tumbling and initial public offerings grinding to a halt, the one area of big profit for most of the year has been the bond market. Prices of Treasurys and most other bonds were rising, and trading volume soared as stock investors shifted to fixed-income securities. 
   TD But the bond market has been in a brutal selloff since early November, as the stock market has rallied and indications appear that the economy is stabilizing and the Federal Reserve is unlikely to cut rates much further. The tumble is picking up speed, especially in the Treasury market, as traders say foreign investors and big mortgage holders scramble to sell Treasurys and related investments. Some even say that selling by the big government-sponsored agencies Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, or at least the possibility that they could become sellers, may be crippling the market. 

 On Friday, the selling came to a head, even amid news that unemployment is rising, suggesting the economy might not be so strong after all. That kind of news usually helps, not hurts, bonds, and the heavy selling was a sign of panic from bond investors and traders, many of whom are scrambling to retain at least some of their earlier winnings. 

 The benchmark 10-year Treasury note fell 1 9/32 points, or $1.28 for a bond with a $1,000 face value. Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction to price, jumped to 5.16% from 4.99%, reaching as high as 5.20% during the day. 

 How painful has the selloff been? The yield on 10-year Treasurys has climbed from an interday low of 4.08% on Nov. 7, the biggest rise in rates for a one-month period since May 1987. 

 Veteran traders like Mr. Gewirtz, head of government-bond trading at Deutsche Bank in New York, say it is their worst period in years. Adding to their frustration: The market has gone from roaring bull to vicious bear in a matter of weeks, racking up big losses and catching almost everyone leaning the wrong way. 

 "You want to go home and throw up," Mr. Gewirtz says. "I can't figure this market out. It's the most difficult period since the fall of 1998." 

 The bond-market blues are bad for more than just bond traders. The lower bond prices go, the higher bond yields go, meaning that all sorts of long-term borrowing rates are rising, including mortgages. That could work to make the developing economic recovery quite weak. 

 "To the degree Treasury yields move higher in anticipation of an economic recovery that has yet to materialize, the longer might be the wait for a decisive firming of business activity," according to a report by Moody's Investors Service. 

 The 10-year Treasury has lost more than 6.5% of its value since Nov. 7, a huge move for the bond market, where investors often use leverage, or borrowed money, that can magnify their losses. Since the move has come without convincing evidence that the economy has actually turned the corner, it has flummoxed market participants. 

 "I'm as useless as anyone else in this market," says one senior trader. "All our charts and economists don't help." 

 So what's behind the rout? First, the stock market began to rise on the heels of improving economic figures. That encouraged some investors to shift from bonds to stocks. Soon, bond investors were declaring the end of their two-year bull market, worrying that the Fed might actually raise rates in 2002. And with Wall Street securities firms about to close the books on their fiscal years, they are loath to take on any risk in their trading positions, and few have been willing to buy bonds when everyone else is selling. 

 But in recent days, traders have said some of the selling is coming from foreign investors, including some from Japan who could be selling winning positions to try to offset losses from stock and bond holdings of Enron Corp., the energy company now in bankruptcy court, bond traders say. Foreign investors had been the source of much of the bond market's strength in recent years, buying up U.S. bonds even as U.S. investors were shifting into stocks. 

 Adding fuel to the recent abrupt move down for Treasurys are investors who hold mortgage-backed securities, groups of mortgages chopped up and strung together as securities, traders say. The one variable these investors always worry about is how rapidly homeowners will refinance their mortgages. 

 When refinancings occur, the investors get their mortgage investments handed back to them earlier than they expected, just when rates are low. To hedge this risk, the investors -- which include Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, as well as large insurance companies and mutual funds like Pacific Investment Management Co. -- usually buy and sell Treasurys and various derivative securities. 

 As Treasury yields rose lately, it became likely that the recent surge in refinancings would come to a screeching halt and that fewer of the mortgages they hold will "prepay." To account for that, some of these investors had to quickly adjust their hedges, selling long-term Treasurys and related interest-rate investments that just a month ago they were buying furiously as the market rallied, traders say. 

 This selling, or even the expectation by bond traders that it might take place, has exacerbated the dive in Treasurys, and this could continue. 

 "Everyone knew that people like Fannie and Freddie began November off balance, and have had a tough time getting back into balance," says James Bianco, president of Bianco Research LLC, in Barrington Ill. "So even if Fannie and Freddie haven't been doing it, the potential of their selling is hurting the market." 

 The impact of mortgage investors is bigger than ever in the bond market. As of the end of October, Fannie Mae held a record $693 billion of mortgages, while Freddie Mac held $478 billion, according to the Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight. That is more than half of the outstanding "conforming" mortgages, or those less than $275,000, and up from $287 billion and $138 billion at the end of 1996. 

 "An important aspect of our strategy has always been to minimize any market impact from our interest-rate risk-management activities," says Janis Smith, a spokeswoman for Fannie Mae. "Our strategy has always been to make decisions that have a minimal impact on the market." 

 A Freddie Mac representative declined to comment on the agency's trading activities. 

 --- 

 Patrick Barta contributed to this article. 

 --- 

 Other Market Activity 

 A $300 million issue by Toronto-based metals and mining concern Brascan was among the few investment-grade corporate issues sold Friday. The notes were given a yield of 8.405%, or 3.50 percentage points above Treasurys. Credit Suisse First Boston led the issue, rated Baa3 by Moody's Investors Service and single-A-minus by Standard & Poor's. 

 As activity declines toward year end, only a few issues are expected in the coming week. 

 Among them, a unit of Salt Lake City-based Questar was expected to sell $200 million of five-year debt via Banc of America Securities and Merrill Lynch & Co. The debt is rated Baa2 by Moody's and triple-B-plus by S&P. 

 In the high-yield area, auto-parts retailer CSK Auto sold $275 million via Credit Suisse First Boston, J.P. Morgan Securities and UBS Warburg. Rated single-B-3 by Moody's and single-B by S&P, the five-year notes were priced to yield 12.50%. The issue was boosted from $225 million and priced on the tight side of early indications. 

 Analysts said that despite some concerns about the the auto-parts sector's prospects, the new-issue market has remained open because fund managers are cash-rich. 

 Meanwhile, OM Group sold $400 million of 9.25%, 10-year senior subordinated notes, rated single-B-3 and single-B-plus. Credit Suisse First Boston served as lead managers. 

 Asset-backed issuance was paced by a $1 billion credit-card backed securitization from Citibank. In response to investor demand, the size was boosted from an indicated $750 million, and terms were set at the tight end of guidance. 

 Citibank's series CCCIT 2001-A9 floating-rate debt had a two-year bullet structure and was priced at a margin of 0.03 percentage point above three-month London interbank offered rate, compared with an earlier indicated margin of 0.03 to 0.04 percentage point. 

 A bank official noted that the two-year maturity is "a relatively infrequently visited part of the [market] for credit-card ABS issuers." The two-year area is regularly used in auto- and student-loan-backed transactions. 

 -- Richard A. Bravo, John Dooley and David Feldheim 
   COccred : Citigroup Inc. | moonch : OM Group Inc | pgc : Brookfield Asset Management Inc   INi25 : Chemicals   NSccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REcana : Canada | caon : Ontario | namz : North America | usa : United States | usc : Midwest U.S. | use : Northeast U.S.   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument j000000020011210dxca0002f  



 HD CORRECTED - US Fed seen cutting rates quarter point this week.    WC1,004 words   PD10 December 2001   ET16:37   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 Reuters Limited
   LP In Dec 9 NEW YORK story "US Fed seen cutting rates quarter 

 point this week" please read first paragraph as ...drop them to 
   TD levels not seen since the 1960s... instead of ...drop them to 

 levels not seen since the 1950s (corrects historical) 

 A corrected repetition follows. 

 By Marjorie Olster 

 NEW YORK, Dec 9 (Reuters) - The Federal Reserve, still unsure whether the U.S. economy has started to pull out of recession, is widely expected to shave another quarter percentage point off key interest rates this week and drop them to levels not seen since the 1960s. 

 The U.S. central bank's policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) meets on Tuesday to consider the final rate cut of a difficult year that saw the end of a 10-year economic expansion and beginning of a recession in March. 

 The 24 leading government bond dealers on Wall Street unanimously predict the FOMC will lower the benchmark federal funds rate on overnight bank lending by a quarter point, to 1.75 percent, according to a Reuters poll conducted Friday. 

 The Fed has already slashed the rate 10 times this year by a total of 4.50 percentage points, and at 2.0 percent it is now at a 40-year low. 

 Half a dozen Fed officials, in the weeks leading up to the meeting, have hinted strongly they do not think the recovery is at hand. With the near-term outlook still murky, the view is that more rate cuts are in the offing. 

 "What we don't know is are we at the turn, have we reached the turn," New York Fed President William McDonough said on Thursday. 

 Central bankers are confident their aggressive interest rate cuts this year, combined with massive fiscal stimulus from government tax cuts and government spending, will eventually stir the world's largest economy to grow next year - even if they're not sure just when that will happen. 

 DELAY ON STIMULUS PACKAGE 

 Talks in Congress on the fiscal stimulus plans were put off indefinitely on Friday, giving the Fed even more incentive to keep up its efforts to get the economy back on track. 

 Not only are policymakers unable to say when the turnaround will come - mid-year 2002 is their best guess of many - but they also don't know how vigorously the economy will snap back. The Fed will also have one eye on the global economy, which is under considerable strain. 

 Fully 16 of the 24 dealers polled on Friday expected at least one more quarter-point rate cut early next year, which would bring the funds rate to 1.5 percent. That will probably be the low point for the cycle and many expect rates to stay there for some time. 

 The bond market has been buffeted in recent weeks by a number of crosscurrents in the economic outlook. 

 Last week, Fed officials hinted strongly that more rate cuts were coming, which sent bond prices higher and market interest rates lower. 

 Governor Laurence Meyer made the biggest impression with his remark that it would be "misguided" for the Fed to conserve its ammunition and hold back on further easing in case the downturn turns out to be more serious or in case there are further negative shocks like the Sept. 11 attacks. 

 The latest economic data were a mixed bag, though, and did not clarify whether the worst is behind. 

 The November employment report showed 331,000 jobs were lost outside the farm sector, far greater than the 189,000-job reduction Wall Street had expected and pushing the unemployment rate up to 5.7 percent from 5.4 percent. A total of 1.2 million jobs have been lost since the recession began in March. 

 FORWARD-LOOKING REPORTS 

 But economists are always quick to point out that employment is a lagging indicator that tells more about where we have been than where we are going. 

 Reports from the National Association of Purchasing Management on the manufacturing and services sectors in November, two indices considered more forward-looking, were released earlier in the week and both showed improvement, raising optimism for a recovery. 

 Consumer spending shot up by a record 2.9 percent in October, adding to revival hopes. But it was largely attributed to aggressive discounting by automakers and zero-percent financing. 

 The University of Michigan consumer sentiment index for December, released on Friday, improved for the third straight month. 

 Investors sold bonds aggressively this week, sending prices lower and market rates higher, in the apparent belief that a recovery may be imminent and that will eventually force the Fed to start raising rates to curb potential inflation. 

 Economists said this "recovery trade" was causing some concern at the Fed because it drives up long-term market rates that often translate into more expensive home mortgages and corporate borrowing. This hampers the Fed's efforts to stimulate the economy through lower rates. 

 "Some people have begun to say the recession is diminishing in force and I think those conclusions are premature. We can look for 25 basis points on Tuesday next week," said Carol Stone, deputy chief economist at Nomura Securities International Inc. 

 "We're in a recession and it is exacerbated by one of the greatest catastrophes ever experienced in this country," Stone said, referring to the aftermath of the Sept. 11 attacks. "We don't think growth will come back so vigorously." 

 President George W. Bush's first two nominees to the seven-member Fed Board of Governors were sworn in on Friday and plan to attend their first FOMC meeting Tuesday. New governors Susan Bies and Mark Olson will vote on all Fed rate decisions. 

 Fed Governor Edward Kelley, who announced this summer his intention to step down once a replacement had been approved, will not attend the meeting, the Fed said. That leaves the 19-member FOMC panel - seven governors and 12 regional bank presidents - still down one governor. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | ncrx : Corrected Items   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   ANDocument lba0000020011213dxca00yq2  
 Page 1 of 1      2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.


 

 Page 1      2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.

