 


 HD Fed Weighs War's Effect on Economy    BY By MARTIN CRUTSINGER    CRAP Economics Writer   WC353 words   PD7 November 2002   SNAP Online   SCASP   LAEnglish   CY Copyright 2002 The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved. 
   LP WASHINGTON (AP) - The Federal Reserve, at its September meeting, discussed a possible U.S.-led war with Iraq and decided that military action would not necessarily compel the central bank to cut interest rates to bolster the economy, it was disclosed Thursday. 

 The Fed released minutes of its closed-door meeting Sept. 24 that showed Fed officials concerned about the potential impact on the economy from a war. 
   TD The Fed's public statement after that meeting took note of the "emergence of heightened geopolitical risks" as one of many factors buffeting the economy. 

 The minutes indicated that Fed officials wanted to note this new uncertainty but also agreed that including the reference to Iraq did not commit the Fed to lowering interest rates in event of war. 

 "The addition (of the language) was not intended to signal that any particular policy response would be forthcoming in the event of a crisis," the Fed minutes said. "Rather, consistent with its usual practice, the (interest-rate) committee would assess the implications of any such development for the domestic economy before deciding on an action." 

 The Fed said that if uncertainties over what a war might do to the economy eased along with concerns about corporate governance issues, then the rebound in consumer and business confidence might lead to more vigorous economic growth without any further Fed actions. 

 The Fed on Wednesday cut interest rates by a larger-than-expected one-half point in an effort to bolster the shaky economy, acting on a unanimous 12-0 vote. 

 At the September meeting, the central bank had decided to leave rates unchanged although two policy-makers, Fed board member Edward Gramlich and Robert McTeer, president of the Fed's Dallas regional bank, dissented and argued for an immediate rate. 

 The minutes said that the two made the case during the meeting that the economic recovery was losing momentum and the risk of cutting rates further was minimal given low inflation pressures. 

 --- 

 On the Net: 

Federal Reserve: http://www.federalreserve.gov
   RFAP-Fed-Minutes; D7N5G9H00   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPC1310   IPDFinancial/Business | General Financial/Business News   ANDocument asp0000020021108dyb7000gp  



 HD Asian central banks unlikely to follow US rate cut: analysts    WC600 words   PD7 November 2002   SNAgence France-Presse   SCAFPR   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright 2002) 
   LP SINGAPORE, Nov 7 (AFP) - Domestic factors should prevent Asia's central banks from falling in line to slash interest rates after the Federal Reserve cut US rates by hefty half a percentage point, analysts said Thursday. 

 The US rate cut would however give the region's central banks more room to ease rates in the longer term if the global economic downturn worsens, they said. 
   TD Bank of America economist Simon Flint said Hong Kong, Thailand, Taiwan and Malaysia were the most likely to slash rates, while Indonesia and the Philippines may need to weigh the potential impact of such a cut on their currencies. 

 The Monetary Authority of Singapore had a "60-40" chance of loosening monetary policy in January, Flint told AFX-Asia, the financial news subsidiary of AFP. 

Federal Reserve policymakers voted unanimously Wednesday to cut key interest rates by half a percentage point to 1.25 percent to boost a flagging US economy. 

 It was the Federal Open Market Committee's first cut this year to the federal funds target rate, which lies at a 41-year low, and was twice as deep as expected by most market economists. 

 The downturn affecting Asian economies should temper the region's central banks from rushing to trim rates, analysts said. 

 The Fed's move "is unlikely to generate a cut in policy interest rates, on average, across Asia ex-Japan in the short term," Singapore's DBS Bank said. 

 "The rate cut does give central banks in the region flexibility... in the event of a worse than anticipated slowdown in the global economy since inflationary pressures remain benign on average across Asia ex-Japan," Southeast Asia's biggest lender said. 

 Central banks would seek guidance from domestic factors, with Hong Kong seen likely to follow with a 50 basis point cut in the rediscount rate because of its currency board arrangement, it said. 

 "In China and Malaysia, fixed exchange rate systems with capital controls implies that interest rate arbitrage opportunities are limited hence decoupling of policy rates from FFR (Federal Funds Rates) movements," DBS said. 

 Countries where domestic considerations in terms of price stability, unemployment and maintaining export competitiveness are key concerns policy rates are unlikely to follow with a rate cut, it added. 

 Steve Brice, the chief economist for Southeast Asia at Standard Chartered Bank, said: "The Fed's move should allow interest rates to remain lower for longer elsewhere, especially in Asia." 

 He said official rate cuts are "now likely" in Taiwan and Thailand "while rates should fall more quickly in Indonesia." 

 The Philippines could cut again but fiscal problems remain a major concern, he added. 

 "The handful of central banks with a bias towards raising rates may now feel more comfortable in leaving rates unchanged," Brice said, adding the Bank of Korea was likely to take heart from the Fed and further delay any rate hikes. 

 Later on Thursday, the South Korean central bank announced it would hold key interest rates at 4.25 percent for the sixth consecutive month, despite inflationary pressures. 

 DBS Bank however said the Philippines and Thailand are unlikely to cut rates in the fourth quarter "as the central banks in these countries are concerned about competitiveness of their exports through exchange rate appreciations." 

 It said "Indonesia is constrained by the monetary targets set by the International Monetary Fund." 

 Taiwan "will most likely cut discount rates" but the degree may be less depending on the central bank's view of the global macroeconomic environment in the short term, DBS said. 

 mba/dv 
   COncnbco : Bank of America Corporation   INi814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REasiaz : Asia | china : China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America | seasiaz : Southeast Asia | usa : United States   IPC522110   IPDFinancial | SEQN: 0137   ANDocument afpr000020021107dyb7004sc  



 HD U.S. Fed Reduces Rates a Half Point --- Move Is Made in an Effort To Give Economy a Boost; Will ECB Action Be Next?    BY By E.S. Browning    WC636 words   PD7 November 2002   SNThe Asian Wall Street Journal   SCAWSJ   PGA1   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 2002, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP NEW YORK -- The U.S. Federal Reserve Wednesday cut its key federal-funds lending rate by an aggressive 50 basis points to 1.25% to help lift the sluggish U.S. economy, whetting market expectations for a similar rate reduction in Europe today. 

 "The committee continues to believe that an accommodative stance of monetary policy, coupled with still-robust underlying growth in productivity, is providing important ongoing support to economic activity," the Federal Open Market Committee said in a statement. "However, incoming economic data have tended to confirm that greater uncertainty, in part attributable to heightened geopolitical risks, is currently inhibiting spending, production, and employment." 
   TD The committee indicated that it is likely to stick to its current levels after its decision to lower rates to a four-decade low. "Today's additional monetary easing should prove helpful as the economy works its way through this current soft spot," the committee said. 

 A cut in interest rates had become widely expected by Wall Street, where interest-rate futures had already priced in a reduction of at least a quarter percentage point, and another cut of the same size in December. 

 With the Fed announcement, attention shifted to the European Central Bank in Frankfurt, where policy makers were expected at a policy session today to review the sluggish European economy and make their own decision on whether monetary reins should be loosened to spur demand. As of Wednesday, there still appeared to be no clear consensus among the ECB's 18 council members to trim its 3.25% key rate for the first time in a year. 

 In advance of the Fed's announcement, some analysts contended that the Fed would be most influenced by last week's report showing that unemployment rose to 5.7% in October as businesses slashed payrolls for the second consecutive month. 

 Now economists are left speculating how soon the economy will respond to the more aggressive move. 

 Some investors worried in advance of the decision that, with a quarter point rate already reflected in market prices, investors could react to a quarter-point cut by selling stocks and taking profits. Those skeptics said it would take a half-point cut to sustain the rally in the short run. Others took the opposite view, fearing that a sharp rate cut could make investors nervous, spreading fears that the Fed is losing hope that the economy will recover. 

 "Investors want growth and they want it badly and they haven't gotten much of what they want," said Stuart Schweitzer, global investment strategist at J.P. Morgan Fleming Asset Management, a money-management arm of J.P. Morgan Chase. "To rally further from here investors are likely to need to become more confident than they are now about the profit outlook in 2003. The Fed will have an indirect impact, but we had 11 interest-rate cuts last year and it didn't buy us much growth in 2002." 

 Another worry is that the U.S. could face a deflation problem similar to that of Japan, where the central bank has cut its base rate almost to zero -- currently 0.1% -- without producing consistent economic gains. 

 As economists examine the scope for future cuts, they observe that the Fed has only a few more rate cuts left before it runs out of ammunition. If it cuts its target rates much below 1%, for example, it could create problems for short-term market rates that banks can offer on money-funds, which would move close to zero. 

 --- 

 Journal Link: See coverage of the U.S. Federal Open Market Committee meeting in the online Journal at WSJ.com/JournalLinks 
   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | gvexe : Executive Branch | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | m131 : Money Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | npag : Page-One Story   REasiaz : Asia | easiaz : Eastern Asia | jap : Japan | namz : North America | usa : United States   ANDocument awsj000020021106dyb70001z  



 HD GLOBAL MARKETS-World stocks fall day after Fed cut, bonds up.    BY By Ross Finley    WC1,015 words   PD7 November 2002   ET23:33   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2002 Reuters Limited
   LP NEW YORK, Nov 7 (Reuters) - World stock markets tumbled on Thursday but long-dated Treasury bonds shot up as investors found little to cheer about one day after the U.S. Federal Reserve slashed interest rates and strongly signaled it was done easing credit costs. 

 Decisions by the Bank of England and the European Central Bank (ECB) on Thursday not to cut rates also soured the mood as investors fretted how an already fragile world economy would fare with no attempts to coordinate policy. 
   TD A warning from technology giant Cisco Systems Inc. on its sales in the current quarter served as a wake-up call to investors that the profits outlook remained uncertain against a backdrop of worries about falling prices. 

 The euro surged to a 3-1/2 month high against the dollar after the ECB's decision and as the Dow Jones industrial average tumbled more than 2 percent, marking the broad market's biggest drop in three weeks. 

 Bond investors piled into long-dated maturities, with 30-year Treasury yields marking their biggest one-day drop this year on expectations the shock cut in U.S. rates to 1.25 percent isn't likely to revive growth any time soon. 

 "By the end of the day yesterday the market was taking the 50 basis point cut by the Fed as an indication that there might be a coordinated move and today there's certainly disappointment in the air," said David Rossmiller, head of global fixed income at Deutsche Bank Private Banking. 

 WALL STREET SAGS 

 A late-day rally on Wall Street on Wednesday failed to carry through. 

 Chip equipment makers were weighed down by losses for Advanced Micro Devices Inc., the main rival to Intel Corp. in the market for microprocessors, after AMD said it was cutting its capital spending next year. Intel was down almost 4 percent. 

 Cisco's weak forecast landed after a slew of better-than-expected earnings reports had lifted stocks for a month after hitting five-year lows in early October. 

 The technology-loaded Nasdaq Composite index lost 42.28 points, or 2.98 percent, to 1,376.71. The blue-chip Dow Jones industrial average fell 184.77 points, or 2.11 percent, to 8,586.24. The broad Standard & Poor's 500 lost 21.11 points, or 2.29 percent, to 902.65. 

 In the bond market, 10-year Treasury notes surged a point and a half to push yields down by their biggest amount, on a percentage basis, in more than five years, to 3.87 percent from 4.03 percent. The 30-year bond rallied nearly three full points, pushing down its yield to 4.88 percent from 5.06 percent. 

 The massive rally reflected market skepticism of Fed claims that Wednesday's aggressive half-point rate cut was just a fillip to get the economy through a "soft spot." 

 Analysts in addition had real problems with the Fed's baffling shift to a balanced view on the economy, a heavy hint that it was not inclined to ease policy again. 

 "I find it hard to take confidence in a now-neutral policy bias," said Stephen Roach, managing director and chief economist at Morgan Stanley. "This aspect of the Fed's latest action was pure spin. 

 ECB DISAPPOINTS 

 Europe's leading shares ended sharply lower after the region's central banks dashed investor hopes for a coordinated round of rate cuts. 

 The ECB left rates unchanged at 3.25 percent. And the Bank of England also left its key interest rate steady at 4.0 percent for the 12th month running, despite some expectations in the market for a cut. 

 Insurers led the decline after Aegon cut its already gloomy full-year outlook and posted weak earnings. 

 But shares in London outperformed, with BT soaring after the UK telecoms group reported robust results. 

 The Eurotop 300 index ended down for the second day running, shedding 1.98 percent at 894.77 points. That left the benchmark index more than 12 percent higher than the five-and-a-half-year low plumbed in early October, but about 3 percent off its close on Tuesday. 

 The narrower DJ Euro Stoxx 50 index shed 3.59 percent to 2,485.81 points. 

 But euro zone government debt yields fell, seizing on the ECB's rare admission there was pressure within its governing council for a rate cut. The benchmark 10-year Bund yield fell to 4.52 percent, its lowest level this month. 

 In foreign exchange, the euro rose to a three-month high against the dollar after the ECB's decision prompted some investors to shift money into higher-yielding European assets. 

 Europe's single currency initially fell below $1.00 versus the dollar after the ECB's rate decision, but reversed those losses to hover just below $1.01, up more than 0.6 percent on the day. 

 The dollar also fell against Japan's currency, buying 121.11 yen, its lowest level since late September and off a little over half a percent from its prior U.S. close. 

 In Tokyo, Sony, the world's top consumer electronics maker, fell 2.56 percent to 5,320 yen, helping push the Nikkei 225-stock average down 0.37 percent to 8,920.44 after it climbed to a two-week intraday high above the key 9,000 level on Wednesday. 

 In other markets, crude oil futures ended lower for the fifth consecutive day on the New York Mercantile Exchange after falling to fresh 19-week lows on speculative fund selling that coincided with Iraq's denial it had mined its oilfields. 

 NYMEX December crude settled at $25.38 a barrel, losing 39 cents or 1.5 percent on the day, accumulating losses in five days to $1.84. The contract fell to an intraday low of $25.25, a fresh 19-week low. (Additional reporting by Wayne Cole and Haitham Haddadin in New York, William Kemble-Diaz in London). 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | ecbnk : European Central Bank | eec : European Union | m11 : Equity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations   REeecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | weurz : Western Europe   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument lba0000020021107dyb7013ib  



 HD U.S. Commerce chief Evans hails Fed cut timing.    WC332 words   PD7 November 2002   ET21:24   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2002 Reuters Limited
   LP CHICAGO, Nov 7 (Reuters) - U.S. Commerce Secretary Don Evans on Thursday said the timing of the Federal Reserve's unexpectedly hefty half-percentage-point interest rate cut on Wednesday was "just right" and should keep Americans shopping. 

 Evans added that the Bush administration, whose Republican Party now controls both houses of Congress following this week's elections, would focus on fiscal policies to increase jobs and boost the economy. 
   TD A cut in key interest rates by the U.S. central bank to new four-decade lows "will continue to keep consumers active in the economy. They have been active for the last several years," said Evans, who was touring the Chicago Board of Trade. 

 Evans said that despite recession, the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks on the U.S. and corporate scandals, "I think the economy has been recovering at an acceptable kind of pace, but we need to do better." 

 "I think we need to stay focused on tax cuts - making the tax cut of 2001 permanent, I think that would be a step in the right direction. I think we need to stay focused on spending and trying to create fiscal policies that create the kind of conditions for economic growth and creating jobs," he said. 

 Asked if the United States was in danger of ending up in a similar situation to Japan, which has been plagued by a moribund economy and persistently falling prices, Evans stressed the big differences between the two countries. 

 Citing Japan's huge government debt load relative to gross domestic product, Evans said this left Japan far less room to deploy fiscal stimulus measures to help the economy. 

 White House spokesman Ari Fleischer said earlier on Thursday that President George W. Bush planned to work in coming weeks on shaping his agenda, adding that the Republican capture of the Senate boosted chances for making permanent the 10-year, $1.35 trillion tax cut passed in 2001. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REeecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | weurz : Western Europe   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument lba0000020021107dyb700zyn  



 HD East Europe mkts cheer Fed cut, bright EU outlook.    BY By Justyna Pawlak    WC567 words   PD7 November 2002   ET17:03   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2002 Reuters Limited
   LP WARSAW, Nov 7 (Reuters) - East European currencies and bonds on Thursday cheered the U.S. Federal Reserve's sharp interest rate cut, which sweetened the yield premiums on local assets and attracted new foreign cash to the region. 

 Analysts said the Fed's half-point easing intensifed foreign demand for east European instruments which have been riding high in recent weeks on hopes for the region's smooth accession to the European Union in 2004. 
   TD "The Fed was key," said Jacek Wisniewski, analyst at Pekao SA in Warsaw. "Spreads are larger and there may be more room for interest rate easing in the region." 

 Foreign demand for still-lucrative yields in eastern Europe are compounded by a growing perception that EU enlargement is a done deal, boosting the region's prospects for long-term economic stability. 

 Bond yields fell five to 20 basis points across regional yield curves during trading, but with the exception of Czech treasuries they remain an enticing 100 to 550 basis points above comparable German bunds. 

 SAVOURY YIELDS 

 Hungarian three-year government bonds traded at 8.96 percent or 551 basis points above German debt, while in Poland two-year bonds were at six percent or 287 points higher than Bunds. 

 Hungary's Government Debt Management Agency, which fixes yields on benchmark bonds on a daily basis, set the yields on benchmark bonds by up to 16 basis points lower. 

 The Polish yield curve, now nearly flat, continued to see spreads between the short and the long end narrow. One-year bills traded at just above six percent and 10-year bonds were a few basis points short of six percent. 

 Yield curves across eastern Europe are disinverting as inflationary expectations stabilise and EU entry prospects lower medium-term risks premiums. Only the Czech yield curve is now fully disinverted largely because of low inflation. 

 Analysts also say Slovak treasuries are likely to attract increased foreign demand in the near-term as hopes solidify for accession to the EU and markets expect the central bank to try weaken the crown with rate cuts. 

 "It's a pro-central Europe environment, and until some kind of snafu on EU enlargement takes place, that's going to probably remain the case for some time," said John Davitte, analyst at IDEAglobal. 

 CURRENCIES BULLISH 

 Regional currencies set new highs throughout the day with the Polish zloty trading at 10-month highs against the dollar and Hungary's forint reaching a record high versus the euro. 

 At 1534 GMT the zloty was at 3.9660 versus the euro while the forint was at 239.23 against the single currency. The Polish unit was at 3.9439 versus the dollar. 

 The Czech crown lost ground, shedding a quarter percent against the euro, failing to win support from brightening prospects for passage of the 2003 budget. 

 The crown has recently trailed other eastern European currencies, which on average yield more than the Czech unit. 

 Yielding half a point less than the euro in short-term rates, the crown has become an increasingly attractive entry point for investors looking to join regional convergence trades. 

 Investors borrow the Czech unit and invest in the Polish zloty or the Slovak crown, reaping the higher returns while limiting exposure to any enlargement-related shocks. - Reporting by Reuters in Prague, Budapest and Bratislava. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | eec : European Union | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | mntdbt : National Government Debt/Bond Markets | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations   REdevgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | eeurz : Central/Eastern Europe | eurz : Europe | hung : Hungary | namz : North America | pol : Poland | usa : United States   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument lba0000020021107dyb700s91  



 HD GLOBAL MARKETS-Stocks, bonds up as Fed puts pressure on ECB, BOE.    BY By Nigel Stephenson    WC661 words   PD7 November 2002   ET11:48   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2002 Reuters Limited
   LP LONDON, Nov 7 (Reuters) - Stock and bond prices rose and the dollar hit a three-month low against the euro on Thursday after the Federal Reserve reduced U.S. interest rates by a surprise half point, adding to pressure for British and euro zone cuts. 

 Euro zone and British interest rate futures, key barometers of rate expectations, rose as markets priced in a greater chance of cuts from Europe's two central bank giants. 
   TD The Bank of England announces its rate decision at 1200 GMT and the European Central Bank follows 45 minutes later. 

 "A lot of people are speculating on an ECB and Bank of England rate cut... Speculation is running high and that should keep the short end of the bond market well bid going into the central bank meetings," said Christoph Rieger, interest rate strategist at Commerzbank in London. 

 The Fed's 50 basis point cut on Wednesday took the benchmark Federal Funds rate to 1.25 percent, a four-decade low. It surprised markets, which had expected a more modest quarter point reduction. 

 Fed policymakers indicated they were now likely to keep rates on hold, saying economic risks were balanced between weakness and inflation. 

 U.S. stocks rose, also buoyed by a sweeping Republican victory in Congressional elections, though a second quarter sales warning from Internet equipment maker Cisco helped limit gains. 

 The Dow Jones Industrial average closed 1.07 percent higher while the tech-heavy Nasdaq index ended 1.27 percent higher. 

 Asian stocks were mixed, with Tokyo down and Hong Kong higher, but European shares opened marginally firmer. 

 The pan-European FTSE Eurotop 300 index was up 0.58 percent and the blue chip DJ Euro STOXX 50 index was up 0.29 percent. 

 SOME OPTIMISTIC ON U.S. ECONOMY, SOME SEE FED WORRIES 

 Some market watchers were optimistic the Fed cut would boost the flagging U.S. economy while others thought it indicated the central bank was more worried about its sluggishness than previously thought. 

 "A 50 basis point cut does smack of a worried Fed but the central bank has signalled it thinks the worst is over. I am more positive on stocks sensitive to a turn in the cycle after this news," said Chris Johns, a global strategist at ABN AMRO. 

 Among stocks in focus, AstraZeneca was up 3.5 percent after winning EU approval for a key drug and BT was nearly four percent higher after a rise in second-quarter. 

 The Euribor euro zone three-month interest rate future for December gave up early gains but was still pricing in a 50 percent chance of a 25 basis point cut by year-end. The ECB has kept its minimum bid rate at 3.25 percent for the past year. 

 The rate-sensitive two-year German Schatz yield was down 1.1 basis points at 3.152 percent while the 10-year benchmark German Bund was yielding 4.588 percent, down 2.3 basis points. 

 The British gilt market was pricing in a 70 percent chance of a cut by the Bank of England's monetary policy committee, according to screen betting service City Index. 

 The dollar was at a three-month low against the euro, which reached a high of $1.0063 before pulling back to $1.0012. 

 Analysts said the Fed decision had hit the greenback. 

 "It was more aggressive than people were expecting and the initial reaction was to sell the dollar," said Rob Hayward, foreign exchange strategist at ABN AMRO. 

 "The focus today is obviously going to be on the ECB and there's a stronger expectation that they will cut rates." 

 The dollar was steadier against the yen, trading at 121.86, a half yen above five-week lows set earlier this week. 

 In the oil market, Brent crude for December delivery was 40 cents higher at $24.07 a barrel. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | ecbnk : European Central Bank | eec : European Union | m15 : Derivative Securities | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations   REeecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | weurz : Western Europe   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument lba0000020021107dyb700ion  



 HD UPDATE 3-HK banks cut rates but little boost seen for economy.    BY By Dominic Lau    WC682 words   PD7 November 2002   ET11:25   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2002 Reuters Limited
   LP HONG KONG, Nov 7 (Reuters) - Three major Hong Kong banks slashed interest rates on Thursday following a move by the U.S. Federal Reserve, but analysts said lower borrowing costs would not help revive the sagging local economy. 

 An unprecedented 11 rate cuts by banks last year failed to boost weak consumer confidence in the territory, which has been ravaged by two recessions in four years. 
   TD Since Hong Kong's currency is pegged to the U.S. dollar, its interest rates usually move in tandem with the United States. 

 But the three Hong Kong lenders trimmed key interest rates by a much smaller margin than the Fed's unexpectedly large 50 basis point move. 

 "Interest rates are already very low, but that has not really stimulated spending a lot," said Joseph Yam, chief executive of the Hong Kong Monetary Authority, the de facto central bank. 

 "When rates are this low, the impact of any movement won't be that big on consumption," he told reporters. 

 Global banking group HSBC, the city's biggest and most influential lender, said it would cut its prime rate, usually reserved for banks' best customers, to five percent from 5.125 percent, the lowest level since early 1987. The cut will take effect on Friday. 

 Mortgage rates are already far lower, but have not sparked a recovery in the ailing property market. 

 HSBC also cut its interest rate for savings deposits by 11.5 basis points to a mere 0.01 percent. Many depositors with small bank balances won't even get that. 

 Hours later, the Bank of East Asia, Hong Kong's fifth largest lender, and London-based Standard Chartered announced a similar move. Most other banks in the territory were expected to follow. 

 LITTLE HELP 

 "The cuts will have very little impact on the local economy, including the property market," said Dick Li, an economist at Goldman Sachs in Hong Kong. 

 "We expect the recovery to remain very sluggish," he said. 

 Goldman Sachs has forecast Hong Kong's economy will grow by two to three percent in 2003, but that will depend heavily on whether a recovery can be sustained in the United States. 

 The United States is Hong Kong's second-largest trading partner after mainland China, and the local stock market takes its cue from Wall Street. 

 Though aggressive rate cuts last year persuaded some new home buyers to take the plunge, many others are holding off, fearing they could lose their jobs if the economy remains sluggish. 

 Mortgages account for nearly 40 percent of lending in Hong Kong. Cutting rates further would heap even more pressure on banks' slimming profit margins. 

 "The impact on banks' earnings is pretty limited. But obviously the worry is going to be what happens if the U.S. cuts rates again next year.," said Simon Ho, regional banking analyst at Macquarie Equities. 

 "Given that, there is no more room for banks to lower funding costs," he said. 

 Housing prices have plunged 65 percent from their 1997 peaks, dragging many Hong Kong families into negative equity, where the size of their mortgage exceeds the value of their flat. 

 As a result, many homeowners have cut spending to the bone, adding to the weakness in the economy. Unemployment is hovering near record levels. 

 On Thursday, the government said retail sales fell for the seventh straight month in September, and more than economists had expected, highlighting an acute lack of consumer confidence. 

 Earlier in the day, the Monetary Authority slashed the base rate charged through its overnight discount window by 50 basis points to 2.75 percent in response to the Fed's move. 

 The cut came after the Fed cut its benchmark federal funds overnight bank lending rate to 1.25 percent from 1.75 percent in a bid to keep the U.S. economy afloat. 

 The Monetary Authority sets its base rate through a formula that includes the U.S. federal funds rate and Hong Kong interbank offered rates. 

 (US$=HK$7.8). 
   INi814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSc31 : Marketing | c314 : Pricing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REasiaz : Asia | china : China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | easiaz : Eastern Asia | hkong : Hong Kong | namz : North America | usa : United States   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument lba0000020021107dyb700i7m  



 HD ANALYSTS' VIEW-Europe reacts to Fed half-point rate cut.    WC686 words   PD7 November 2002   ET08:47   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2002 Reuters Limited
   LP LONDON, Nov 7 (Reuters) - Following are European analysts' reactions on Thursday to the U.S. Federal Reserve's decision to cut its key interest rate on Wednesday to a new four-decade low. 

 The Federal Open Market Committee announced after a one-day meeting that it was cutting the Federal Funds rate charged on overnight bank loans by 50 basis points to 1.25 percent. 
   TD It was the Fed's first rate cut this year after 11 in 2001. The European Central Bank and Bank of England announce rate decisions later on Thursday. 

 ROB HAYWARD, SENIOR CURRENCY STRATEGIST, ABN AMRO, LONDON 

 "It was a tricky decision. They've done 0.5 now in order to try to get rid of expectation of more in the future. Some people are interpreting it as a panic reaction but I think they just wanted to get it all out of the way in one go. "They were concerned there were signs consumer spending was weakening and any tentative pick-up in business spending was evaporating and when you combine that with fear of terrorism and the possibility of conflict in the Middle East and what that could do to consumer confidence and spending then it makes sense to act now rather than wait until things have got worse. 

 "To do 50 rather than 25 is to be ahead of market expectations." 

 AUDREY CHILDE-FREEMAN, EUROPEAN ECONOMIST, CIBC WORLD MARKETS, LONDON 

 "It is probably going to add pressure especially on the Bank of England. There was already some sort of strong questionmark over the outcome for the Bank of England and the fact that the Fed has moved by 50 basis points would be seen as increasing the probability to see a Bank of England rate cut. I don't think it is going to make that much of a dramatic difference to the ECB. I think the ECB is not going to cut rates today. The ECB has very rarely moved in tandem with the Fed. I think the ECB is going to keep to a wait-and-see approach to policy. Attention will be mainly on the Bank of England to follow." 

 VINCENT CHAIGNEAU, SENIOR FIXED INCOME STRATEGIST, SOCIETE GENERALE, PARIS 

 "It adds to the pressure on the ECB. Is that going to make them move? I'm not sure, it's a 50/50 case. I think they will move either today or in December but we're not sure for today. Reaction yesterday (to the Fed cut) was positive but now equity futures are slightly down. I guess the opening this morning will be okay. 

 However, I would be cautious because it is really an aggressive policy mix that is being set in the U.S. with the Republicans likely to extend the fiscal boost plus the Fed cut. That could restore confidence but the question is whether that is going to restore confidence and growth but in the short-term the reaction could be positive for stocks and that bonds could suffer a little bit both in the U.S. and in Europe. Clearly the policy mix is not stimulative and expansive in Europe." 

 KORNELIUS PURPS, FIXED INCOME STRATEGIST, HYPOVEREINSBANK, MUNICH 

 "This is a great decision. If we put this Fed cut, the neutral risk assessment and the election outcome into one baggage, you have what every country dreams of: a governemnt that can act and bring fiscal stimuli packages and you have a central bank that provides the market with real rates below zero. This in my view brightens the outlook for the economic recovery considerably. 

 Stock markets will gain from the cut and bond investors will have to suffer, because bonds have to carry all the burden which will come out of this. We'll have a higher growth rate than expected so far and we'll probably have inflation instead of deflation. The issuance volume of government bonds will swell. On a medium to long-term horizon it is probably good to bet on stocks and to avoid the government bond markets." 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REeecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | weurz : Western Europe   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument lba0000020021107dyb700ctr  



 CLMCredit Markets   HD Treasurys End Mixed After Fed Cuts Lending Rate --- Traders Struggle to Interpret Surprisingly Large Move; 10-Year, Two-Year Diverge    BY By Joy C. Shaw    CRDow Jones Newswires   WC738 words   PD7 November 2002   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGC15   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 2002, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP NEW YORK -- Treasurys ended mixed in the wake of a bigger-than-expected Federal Reserve rate cut, as bond investors and traders struggled with the implications. 

 At 4 p.m., the benchmark 10-year note was up 10/32 point, or $3.125 per $1,000 face value, at 102 23/32. Its yield fell to 4.035% from 4.074% Tuesday, as yields move inversely to prices. The 30-year bond's price was up 13/32 point at 104 25/32 to yield 5.055%, down from 5.080% Tuesday. The two-year note was down 2/32 point to yield 1.851%. 
   TD The Fed lowered the target for the federal-funds, or overnight-lending rate, by one-half of a percentage point, to 1.25%. It also cut the largely symbolic discount rate one-half of a percentage point to 0.75%. 

 Fed policy makers said the risk of a renewed economic downturn now is "balanced" with the risk of inflation, suggesting no likely need for further rate cuts. That was a change in tone from a previous risk assessment geared toward weakness. 

 Friday, a Dow Jones Newswires-CNBC survey of economists at primary dealer firms in Treasurys had found a large majority forecasting a quarter-point rate cut. The larger rate reduction caught many by surprise, and Treasurys prices swung widely in apparent confusion over the implications. 

 Complicating matters, the bond market also focused on the stock market, which sold off sharply after the Fed announcement before later rebounding. 

 "It surprised a lot of people that stocks sold off strongly within 10 minutes after," the announcement said Paul Calvetti, head of government bond trading at Deutsche Bank in New York. "That brought in buyers like crazy." 

 By the time trading was grinding to a halt, the difference between two- and 10-year yields had narrowed to 2.184 percentage points from 2.27 percentage points late Tuesday. That reflected a belief that the Fed won't cut rates further in the current interest-rate cycle. 

 Short- and midmaturity Treasurys might still have a little room to rally from here, while longer-term yields likely will stick at around 5%, said Marie Schofield, fund manager at Fleet Asset Management in Boston. 

 But she added that the Fed actions likely mark the end of the sustained Treasury rally, and investors might find better opportunities in other sectors such as mortgage-backed securities and high-grade corporate bonds. 

 Early in the session, Treasurys weakened in reaction to news of the sweeping gains by Republicans in the U.S. midterm elections. Analysts cited bond-market worries that some of the policy proposals discussed by Republicans, such as tax cuts, could result in a wider budget deficit and increase the supply of public debt. 

 Later, Treasurys drew some support as an $18 billion auction of 10-year Treasury notes was better received than expected. The Treasury awarded the notes at a high rate of 4.095%, below the 4.390% level at the previous 10-year note auction and the lowest ever for that maturity. 


                     AUCTION RESULTS
                      10-YEAR NOTES
  Here are results of yesterday's Treasury auction of 10-year notes.
All bids are awarded at a single price at the market-clearing yield.
Rates are determined by the difference between that price and the face
value.
Applications ........................... $34,181,711,000
Accepted bids .......................... $18,000,031,000
Bids at market-clearing yield accepted .          86.41%
Accepted noncompetitively ..............    $111,061,000
" foreign noncompetitively .............              $0
Auction price (Rate) ...................  99.227 (4.095%)
Interest rate ..........................              4%
Cusip number ...........................       912828AP5
  The notes are dated Nov. 15, 2002, and mature Nov. 15, 2012.



Corporate Bonds



Investment-grade corporate bonds ended unchanged to somewhat firmer
after the Federal lowered interest rates.



Several sectors also drew strength from the midterm election results.
Most of the reaction was in pharmaceuticals, defense and tobacco debt
issues, investors said.



In the new-issue market, Dow Chemical Co. sold $500 million of
seven-year bonds priced to yield 2.25 percentage points over Treasurys.
It was rated single-A3 by Moody's Investors Service and single-A by
Standard & Poor's. The lead underwriter was Salomon Smith Barney.



---



Steven Vames and Michael C. Barr contributed to this article.

   COdowch : The Dow Chemical Co   INi25 : Chemicals   NSc17 : Funding/Capital | c172 : Corporate Debt Instruments | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | gvexe : Executive Branch | gvtre : Treasury Department | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | m131 : Money Markets | m14 : Commodity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | mntdbt : National Government Debt/Bond Markets   REnamz : North America | usa : United States | usc : Midwest U.S. | use : Northeast U.S. | usmi : Michigan | usny : New York   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument j000000020021107dyb70002v  



 SE International    HD Fed Rate Cut Puts Pressure on Europe to Follow --- Inflation Deters the ECB, And Nations' Needs Differ; Postponing the Inevitable?    BY By G. Thomas Sims    WC932 words   PD7 November 2002   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGA12   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 2002, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP FRANKFURT -- The Federal Reserve's hefty interest-rate cut adds to the mounting pressure on the European Central Bank to follow suit today to boost the flagging euro-zone economy, but stubbornly high inflation and national politics are putting the world's No. 2 central bank in a bind. 

 Inflation isn't falling significantly despite the slowdown, and remains above the ECB's target of 2%. In addition, inflation rates among the 12 nations in the euro zone are diverging. This makes a one-size-fits-all monetary policy more difficult to practice and pits the interests of small, higher-inflation countries against those of the large nations that would likely benefit from lower rates. 
   TD At today's meeting, the ECB will weigh whether the bad news on the economy warrants a shift in focus from fighting inflation to supporting growth, a move that could by extension aid the U.S. and global economy. Over the past month, further evidence of a halting recovery has continued to pour in. Just yesterday, Germany reported that orders to its manufacturing industry fell a monthly 2.5% in September, dimming the prospects of Europe's largest economy. And in France, the region's second-largest powerhouse, industrial demand fell in the third quarter of this year, and a survey showed that business executives expect a further drop in the fourth. The Fed's decision also underscores the weakness of the U.S. economy, which Europe traditionally counts on to pull it out of a slump. 

 Already this year, the ECB did an about-face on its attitude toward inflation. During the summer, the bank was gearing up to raise borrowing costs but had to quickly retract that plan as the recovery and stock markets faltered. Still, during the past few days, public statements from ECB officials suggested the 18-member governing council hadn't yet reached an agreement to cut rates as early as today. The ECB has surprised markets before, however. 

 Some economists believe that if the ECB holds rates steady today, it will simply postpone the inevitable, miss a chance to appear proactive, and come under fire from the politicians, banks and media. "What do they win or lose by waiting another four weeks?" said Julian von Landesberger, an economist with HVB Group in Munich. "Until now the ECB was much too optimistic with regard to growth next year." 

 For some outside the ECB, talk of inflation may be misplaced. The threat of deflation shouldn't be dismissed for the world's largest economies, according to Andrew Crockett, the general manager of the Bank for International Settlements. Mr. Crockett made this clear recently in Frankfurt when he addressed a private audience that included several ECB council members. Deflation was "not a prediction," Mr. Crockett said, but "deflation is something we should think about" and it "needs watching," his office confirmed that he said. 

 If an agreement to cut rates doesn't come at today's meeting, the bank will likely see some of its supporters turn into critics. Those pressing the ECB to cut six months ago "were not necessarily justified," said Richard Portes, economics professor at the London Business School and president of the Centre for Economic Policy Research. "But things have changed. Price risks are on the downside." 

 Yesterday, the Association of European Chambers of Commerce and Industry, based in Brussels, also called on the ECB to lower its key rate by a half point from the current 3.25%. 

 Still, some ECB officials have recently suggested that they remain uncomfortable with inflation, which in October was at 2.2% and has been above 2% for much of the past three years. (The ECB is legally bound to keep inflation low, while boosting growth is a secondary goal.) When an economy slows sharply, inflation often does as well. But that's not happening in Europe. The ECB isn't really sure why inflation is so persistent, though theories abound. 

 One of the chief culprits may be service prices, which rose because many shopkeepers rounded up earlier this year when they converted prices into euros from the old national currencies. Upward wage pressure may also be coming from pay increases that unions in Europe often win even when the economy is weak. If the problem of sticky inflation persists, Europe may generally have a rough time of digging itself out of economic slowdowns, as the ECB keeps interest rates higher than it otherwise would prefer. 

 The ECB is also grappling with managing an economy where inflation rates are diverging. In 1999, during the first year of the euro, the difference between the highest and lowest national inflation rates averaged 2.4 percentage points. So far this year, the difference has increased to 3.5 points, with inflation currently 4.5% in Ireland and 1% in Germany. Inflation differences aren't unusual in a large currency bloc, but it does make it harder for a central bank to arrive at a suitable interest rate. 

 The bank is coping with the situation by focusing on the average for the euro zone, even though economists say that important countries such as Germany and France need lower interest rates. It is from these two countries that politicians are publicly most critical of the ECB's stance. Some ECB officials have warned the calls from politicians may be counterproductive, suggesting the bank may hold rates steady to maintain an air of independence. 
   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1103 : Inflation/Prices | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | e1202 : Interest Rates | e52 : Euro Zone/Currency | ecat : Economic News | ecbnk : European Central Bank | eec : European Union | gcat : Political/General News | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | gvexe : Executive Branch | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | m131 : Money Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations   REeecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | gfr : Germany | namz : North America | usa : United States | weurz : Western Europe   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument j000000020021107dyb70002q  



 HD Money-Fund Yields Likely to Slip Even Lower in Wake of Rate Cut    BY By Karen Damato    WC307 words   PD7 November 2002   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGD10   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 2002, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP NEW YORK -- After yesterday's interest-rate cut by the Federal Reserve, the record low yields on money-market mutual funds are likely to slip still lower to below 1% within the next two to three weeks, says Pete Crane, vice president and managing editor at money-fund tracker iMoneyNet Inc. of Westborough, Mass. 

 The average seven-day yield on taxable money funds was 1.21% as of yesterday, unchanged from the week before. The full half-point cut in short-term rates should be reflected in money-fund yields over the next six weeks, Mr. Crane says. 
   TD Meanwhile, this week's average 1.22% yield on tax-free money funds -- those holding municipal securities -- exceeds the taxable fund yield for the first time since tax-free money funds appeared in the early 1980s. The higher tax-free yield, up 0.03 percentage point from a week before, is "quite an anomaly" and reflects a heavy supply of municipal paper coming to market, Mr. Crane says. 

 The Fed rate cut puts additional pressure on mutual-fund companies with high-fee money funds to waive part of their fees, something that a number of firms are already doing. 

 Otherwise, the funds could potentially post negative returns and see their share price fall below the stable $1 that money funds strive to maintain. 

 Currently, 73 taxable and tax-exempt money funds have yields below 0.50%, iMoneyNet says. 

 During the week ended Tuesday, investors added $13.4 billion to money-market funds, leaving total net assets of $2.16 trillion, according to the Money Fund Report newsletter published by iMoneyNet. 

 Institutional investors were responsible for most of the inflows, putting in $17.55 billion, while "retail," or individual, investors removed $4.1 billion. 
   INi81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles | i8150211 : Unit Trusts/Mutual Funds | iinv : Investing/Securities   NSccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | m131 : Money Markets | m16 : Fund Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument j000000020021107dyb70000i  



 HDWORLD NEWS - Neat logic in Fed's half-point reduction US INTEREST RATES SIZE OF CUT CONVINCES MARKETS ...   BYBy ALAN BEATTIE.    WC874 words   PD7 November 2002   SNFinancial Times   SCFTFT   PG10   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2002 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPWORLD NEWS - Neat logic in Fed's half-point reduction US INTEREST RATES SIZE OF CUT CONVINCES MARKETS THAT FEDERAL RESERVE IS IN CHARGE OF THE ECONOMY.

As a farmer taking his produce to market was once supposed to have remarked: "This pig does not weigh as much as I expected - but then I never thought it would."
   TDYesterday's half-point point interest rate cut by the US Federal Reserve was emphatically not predicted by the markets, which had largely expected a quarter-point reduction. Yet in retrospect, the decision to blow nearly a third of the Fed's remaining interest rate ammunition in a single move has a neat logic which makes the action seem obvious.

Having been on hold for 11 months following an aggressive rate-cutting campaign last year, the Fed, led by Alan Greenspan, chairman, had grown sufficiently worried about the signs of weakness in the economy to act. Offsetting the rally in stocks since the Fed's last meeting, consumer confidence, economic growth and capital spending had all been weaker than expected.

But at the same time, it did not want to trap itself in a cycle of one quarter-point rate cut begetting expectations of another. The cumulative impact of yesterday's announcement - to cut rates by more than expected but return to a neutral bias - was to convince markets that the Fed was in control of the economy and felt it had done enough for some time to come.

The statement released with the decision, along with the announcement that the Fed was returning to a neutral policy bias, appeared designed to convey that this was a one-off decisive blow and quite likely the bottom of the rate cycle. This contrasted with the signals the Fed sent out during its series of cuts in interest rates last year, which reduced borrowing costs by a massive cumulative 4.75 percentage points. Throughout each move - even the last one in December - the Fed kept its policy bias towards more easing, always implying that more cuts might be on the way.

"When a man needs a beer, he needs a whole pint at once, not a couple of small glasses over time," says Paul McCulley, managing director at the bond investor Pimco, who earlier this week had called on the Fed for a half-point cut. "But unlike last year, it does not mean the Fed is going on a binge."

Moreover, the reference in the Fed's statement to the rate cut helping as the economy "works its way through this current soft spot" suggested that this was a specific fix for a specific problem, not a recognition that the world had fundamentally changed and that risks of deflation and recession were now looming. The fact that the decision was unanimous also reduced the chance that panic and disarray might be taking hold within the Fed's open market committee.

With the Republicans taking the Senate, the Fed may also want to wait for a couple of months to see if the administration's wish-list of tax cuts looks like it is coming to fruition. It may be able to hold back from cutting interest rates further if a tax cut looks like it is doing some of its counter-cyclical work for it.

If the Fed's message was that it was undertaking a one-off surgical intervention, it took a little while getting through. Anything which does not fulfil market expectations creates some disturbance, and equity and bond markets showed volatility after the Fed's decision. "When the Fed cuts by more than expected, there is always a reaction in the markets along the lines of: does the Fed know something we don't?" Mr McCulley says.

But the markets seemed to draw the desired conclusion that economic prospects were now better and that the Fed was in control: equities finished higher on the day, and the futures markets expunged their earlier expectations of more interest rate cuts by the end of the year.

"What the Fed has done is to set the bar high for a further move in December," says Ed McKelvey, senior economist at Goldman Sachs. "Even if they do decide they want to do more, they don't want to be pushed into it by the markets."

The future prospects for interest rate cuts thus seem to rely on the incoming flow of data, not a predetermined strategy to get rates to a certain level by a certain time.

But here the potential downside to the Fed's strategy becomes apparent. Mr McKelvey, who reflects Goldman Sachs' pessimism on the US economy, says: "Our guess is that the data will be weak enough that the Fed will have to do some more."

If the underlying optimism in the Fed's statement is not vindicated and yesterday's decision is insufficient to restore consumers' confidence, its assertions that lower rates are keeping the economy going will seem hollow. Another downside to yesterday's cut is that the Fed now has just 125 basis points of gunpowder left.

London Edition 2. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REeecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | weurz : Western Europe   IPCLondon Edition 2 | WORLD NEWS | Company News | Interim Results | Results | Federal Reserve USA | United States of America | Americas | North America | Pacific Rim   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument ftft000020021107dyb7000bm  



 HDBoE declines to follow Fed lead on rates.   BYBy SCHEHERAZADE DANESHKHU IN LONDON AND TONY MAJOR IN FRANKFURT.    WC443 words   PD7 November 2002   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2002 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPThe Bank of England ushered in the longest period of stable interest rates for three decades on Thursday, resisting pressure for a cut by leaving rates at 4 per cent for the 12th successive month.

The decision surprised most analysts. Expectations of a cut had mounted after the US Federal Reserve reduced rates by an unexpectedly large half a percentage point on Wednesday to 1.25 per cent.
   TDAs usual, the Bank gave no explanation for its decision, the details of which will be made public in a fortnight, but fears of overstimulating the household sector appear to have outweighed worries about the global recovery.

Are interest rates at the right level?

Do you think the Bank made the right decision? Join our online discussion

The inaction left UK interest rates unchanged for the longest period since July 1966, when they had been held at 6 per cent for a year.

The European Central Bank, in line with expectations, also opted to keep interest rates on hold for the 12th consecutive month at 3.25 per cent.

Wim Duisenberg, ECB president, made clear the decision had been narrow. He said the 18-man council had held "extensive" discussions on a rate cut. "But in the end the view prevailed that it would be wise to keep interest rates unchanged."

The outcome of the MPC's meeting is also thought to have been close. Three of the nine members voted for a cut last month, citing worries about the global economic slowdown and falling share prices.

"Concerns about stoking up activity on the high street and in the housing market - because this might ultimately lead to a crash - must have been the reason," said David Hillier at Barclays Capital. "Lower rates in the US should help to support stock markets and global growth."

Despite signs of cooling at the top end of the housing market, prices still rose by 24 per cent in the year to the end of October, according to Nationwide.

Manufacturers were disappointed by the decision of the two central banks. "The continued weak economic performance of the eurozone is of equal if not greater importance than the domestic economy for UK manufacturers," said Dougie Peedle, deputy chief economist at the Engineering Employers' Federation.

In London, financial markets reacted positively to the Fed rate cut but this was overtaken by disappointment at the Bank's interest rate freeze. The FTSE 100 closed 0.55 per cent lower at 4,081.3. In Frankfurt, the stock market fell by more than 3 per cent. 
   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REeecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | weurz : Western Europe   IPCEconomic Indicators | Economic News | Interest Rates | Bank of England | Federal Reserve USA | United Kingdom | United States of America | Americas | Europe | North America | Western Europe   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument ftcom00020021108dyb70002e  



 HDLex - Fed.   WC280 words   PD7 November 2002   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2002 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPIt is not quite time to draw a line under the international interest rate easing cycle, even if the Federal Reserve has just dimes left to throw at a recovery. Moving to a neutral stance was prudent after a 50 basis point rate cut. The Fed signals a view that the "soft spot" in the US economy might in fact be quicksand. But it is hard to dismiss concerns about the US consumer, or about the risks of war in Iraq. A nasty surprise could force the Fed to cut again, which is why Fed funds for next year are trading below 1.25 per cent.

In the eurozone, there is more scope for relaxing monetary policy. Short rates remain at 3.25 per cent and any immediate inflation risk is a phantom. Wim Duisenberg, European Central Bank president, noted concern about the growth outlook, and the relatively few risks to near-term inflation. That the ECB did not cut interest rates is hardly open to rational explanation.
   TDIn the UK, there was no compelling reason to cut, especially after the Fed's move to shore up the weakest part of the UK economy - its overseas markets. But significant softening of the housing sector would cause problems for the Bank of England, too.

Government bond markets already price in a bit more monetary easing. With real long-term yields in the US and eurozone paying little more than 2 per cent, there is scant value without tangible evidence of deflation. But neither do prospective equity returns look that attractive in the US, following the recent rally, or in Europe, given stagnation. That suggests a rather forlorn winter ahead. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPCEconomic Indicators | Economic News | Government News | Inflation | Interest Rates | International Affairs | National Security | Federal Reserve USA | Iraq | United States of America | Americas | Arabian States | Gulf States | Middle East | North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument ftcom00020021108dyb700027  



 HDECB holds rates but admits to divisions.   BYBy TONY MAJOR IN FRANKFURT AND SCHEHERAZADE DANESHKHU IN LONDON.    WC550 words   PD7 November 2002   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2002 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPThe European Central Bank decided to keep monetary policy unchanged on Thursday for the 12th successive month and took the unprecedented step of admitting to divisions within its policy-making council.

It joined the Bank of England in refusing to follow the US Federal Reserve's unexpectedly big half-point cut on Wednesday.
   TDWim Duisenberg, ECB president, made clear that the decision to hold its primary interest rate at 3.25 per cent had been far from straightforward, which suggested a long-awaited interest rate cut could come as soon as next month's meeting.

Financial markets reacted with disappointment to the ECB's decision. In Frankfurt the Dax leading index of shares fell 4.7 per cent to 3,144. "The whole macro-economic picture for Germany has significantly worsened - people are not happy, they are saving and not investing," said Rolf Elgeti at Commerzbank in Frankfurt.

The euro fell but later recovered near to an earlier three-month high against the dollar.

Wall Street was weaker on worries about corporate earnings after the euphoria that followed the cut in rates by the Federal Reserve on Wednesday. The Dow Jones Industrial Average was off nearly 2 per cent at mid-session at 8,589.

The FTSE 100 index in London slipped 22 to 4,081 after initially moving higher in anticipation of a cut in rates by the Bank of England.

Euronext.liffe, a pan-European derivatives exchange, said it traded a record 2.5m contracts in London after the central banks' decisions.

Mr Duisenberg said the 18-member ECB council had "extensive" discussion on a rate cut. "But in the end the view prevailed that it would be wise to keep interest rates unchanged."

Economists said the ECB president's comments hinted at dissent in the wake of the Fed's cut. The ECB has been pressed by governments eager for a rate move to prop up the eurozone's economy.

"The discussion must have been intense ... one side prevailed but it must have been an almost split decision," said Luigo Buttiglione of Barclays Capital.

Market hopes of a cut in coming weeks were bolstered by the overall doveish tone of Mr Duisenberg's statement. He made no mention of rates being "appropriate" and signalled concern about the eurozone economy.

He described business confidence in the 12-nation bloc as "lacklustre". The pace of economic expansion was "hesitant" in the face of mounting uncertainty, fuelled largely by fears of a US-led invasion of Iraq.

Economists said hopes of a rate cut had also been helped by eurozone finance ministers' recent pledge of support for the stability and growth pact, which obliges the m to achieve balanced budgets over the medium term.

In the UK the Bank of England ushered in the longest period of unchanged rates for three decades after deciding to leave its main interest rate at 4 per cent for the 12th successive month.

As usual the Bank gave no explanation for its decision, details of which will be published in a fortnight but fears of over-stimulating the buoyant household sector appear to have outweighed worries about global recovery.

Additional reporting by Deborah Hargreaves and Arkady Ostrovsky. 
   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | e52 : Euro Zone/Currency | ecat : Economic News   REeecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | weurz : Western Europe   IPCEconomic News | Bank of England | European Central Bank | Federal Reserve USA | United Kingdom | United States of America | Americas | Europe | North America | Western Europe   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument ftcom00020021108dyb70001x  



 HD Analysts Stunned by 50BP FOMC Rate Cut - See Positive Impact.    BY By Steven K. Beckner    WC1,130 words   PD6 November 2002   ET22:17   SNMarket News International   SCMARNEW   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2002. Market News International, Inc.
   LP Market News International - Many analysts were stunned by the size of the interest rate cut announced Wednesday by the Federal Reserve, but most agreed that it should have a positive impact on financial markets and the economy. 

 By the time the Fed's policymaking Federal Open Market Committee announced its decision, it was considered virtually a foregone conclusion that the FOMC would be cutting rates, but most expected only a 25 basis point move now, with another rate cut next month. 
   TD Instead the Fed cut the federal funds rate 50 basis points immediately to 1.25%. The discount rate was lowered the same amount to just 0.75%. 

 Significantly though, the FOMC coupled the greater-than-expected rate cut with a shift back to a symmetrical or "balanced" statement of risks, implying that, at least for now, Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan and his colleagues think they have done enough. 

 Significantly too, the vote was unanimous, demonstrating that whatever split may have existed after the Sept. 24 FOMC meeting, pretty much disappeared by the time of this meeting in face of an avalanche of generally discouraging economic numbers. 

 Explaining the FOMC decision, the Fed rate announcement said "the Committee continues to believe that an accommodative stance of monetary policy, coupled with still-robust underlying growth in productivity, is providing important ongoing support to economic activity." 

 "However," it added, "incoming economic data have tended to confirm that said "greater uncertainty, in part attributable to heightened geopolitical risks, is currently inhibiting spending, production, and employment." 

 The Fed rate announcement added that the FOMC "believes that today's additional monetary easing should prove helpful as the economy works its way through this current soft spot." 

 Long-time Fed watcher Charles Lieberman confessed to being "surprised" by the size of the Fed move, saying he does "not see the economy as performing that badly," but he said he understands why it was done. 

 "It obviously shows they really want to make sure they provide some wind in the economy's sails," said Lieberman, head of Advisors Financial. "The Fed is doing what it can to make absolutely sure the economy becomes healthier. They're not taking any chances whatsoever." 

 Lieberman said one effect should be to encourage savers to become shareholders. He added it should "help stimulate activity" and "help improve the ability to finance." 

 Lieberman said the rationale for moving by 50 basis points was "if you have a big gun use it." 

 "It sends a very strong signal to the market, which is exactly what they wanted to do," said Lieberman. "It should pay off." 

 He said the dropping of the easing bias first adopted at the August FOMC meeting made sense. "Having moved by 50, there was little need for a further easing bias," said Lieberman, although he said the adoption of a balanced risk statement "doesn't preclude more action." 

 One drawback to the sizable rate cut, Lieberman said, is that it could lead to more rate volatility, since "the more you ease now the more you have to tighten later." 

 BankOne chief economist Dianne Swonk said she "didn't want them to do it," feeling that the Fed had the funds rate set low enough at 1.75%, but she added, "if you're going to cut rates, you can't simp out. You've got to do it big." 

 Had she been on the FOMC, Swonk said, "I would have done the same thing." 

 She also called the shift to neutral was "a brilliant move." 

 Swonk said it "puts the ball in the court of corporate America," which she said has been timid about spending because of war fears and corporate governance issues. 

 The Fed's message, she said, was "we've done as much as we can do. Now it's up to you guys." Another message, she added, was "we're only hedging the downside risks, whether it's needed it or not." 

 Swonk said the move "should be positive for the economy." 

 Sung Won Sohn, chief economist for Wells Fargo & Co. questioned the size of the Fed's "insurance policy." 

 "Since the economy is awash with liquidity and interest rates are already at a 41-year low, however, the cut in the interest rate will work primarily through the psychological channel," he wrote. "After all, consumer confidence is low with the prospect of lackluster holiday shopping season. Businesses are shell-shocked from a series of body blows; they are reluctant to hire people, build inventories or purchase capital goods." 

 "This move could also backfire by announcing to the world that the economy is so weak that Chairman Greenspan has to use what little ammunition he has left to shore up the economy," Sohn continued. "The corporate spreads over Treasuries could actually widen forcing some borrowers to pay higher, not lower rates." 

 The aggressive rate cut left analysts hedging their bets about further rate cuts. By switching back to a balanced stance, Ian Shepherdson, Chief U.S. Economist at High Frequency, said the FOMC wanted "presumably to squash speculation that they are embarking on a new sequence of rate cuts." 

 "This is sensible - q they can always change their mind," said Shepherdson. 

 David Greenlaw of Morgan Stanley agreed the FOMC "is signaling that they are not particularly anxious" to cut rates again. He said the Fed could still ease at the Dec. 10 FOMC meeting "if the economy were to show significant deterioration between now and then." He anticipated the Fed will start raising rates in the second quarter. 

 "We do not anticipate that the Fed will move again unless the economy sinks even further," said Steve Wood of FinancialOxygen. "However, we also do not see the Fed raising interest rates within the next 6 months." 

 Mizuho economist Bill Quan said, "We suspect no further easing moves are in store unless econ activity appears to be coming to a standstill." 

 The move won praise from the National Association of Manufacturers and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. NAM President Jerry Jasinowski said "the Fed's action will stimulate purchase of big ticket consumer items, shore up the housing market and help strengthen stock prices." 

 But Jasinowski cautioned that "for many small and medium sized business today the main problem is not the level of interest rates, but rather the cost and availability of credit." And he said "the big drag on the economy today is weakening of capital investment by business." 

 U.S. Chamber chief economist Martin Regalia said "the Fed's move should help to spur business investment and is a clear indication of the Fed's desire to stimulate economic growth and avoid a double dip recession." 

 [TOPICS: M$U 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   ANDocument marnew0020021107dyb600135  



 HD Text - FOMC Statement on Interest Rates After Nov. 6 Meeting.    WC529 words   PD6 November 2002   ET20:17   SNMarket News International   SCMARNEW   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2002. Market News International, Inc.
   LP WASHINGTON (MktNews) - The Federal Open Market Committee issued the following statement on interest rate policy after its meeting Wednesday. The most recent FOMC statement, from Sept. 24, is attached for comparison: 

 The Federal Open Market Committee decided today to lower its target for the federal funds rate by 50 basis points to 1-1/4 percent. In a related action, the Board of Governors approved a 50 basis point reduction in the discount rate to 3/4 percent. 
   TD The Committee continues to believe that an accommodative stance of monetary policy, coupled with still-robust underlying growth in productivity, is providing important ongoing support to economic activity. However, incoming economic data have tended to confirm that greater uncertainty, in part attributable to heightened geopolitical risks, is currently inhibiting spending, production, and employment. Inflation and inflation expectations remain well contained. 

 In these circumstances, the Committee believes that today's additional monetary easing should prove helpful as the economy works its way through this current soft spot. With this action, the Committee believes that, against the background of its long-run goals of price stability and sustainable economic growth and of the information currently available, the risks are balanced with respect to the prospects for both goals in the foreseeable future. 

 Voting for the FOMC monetary policy action were Alan Greenspan, Chairman; William J. McDonough, Vice Chairman; Ben S. Bernanke, Susan S. Bies; Roger W. Ferguson, Jr.; Edward M. Gramlich; Jerry L. Jordan; Donald L. Kohn, Robert D. McTeer, Jr.; Mark W. Olson; Anthony M. Santomero, and Gary H. Stern. 

 In taking the discount rate action, the Federal Reserve Board approved the requests submitted by the Boards of Directors of the Federal Reserve Banks of Dallas and New York. 

 ************************************************************************ 

 The following is the FOMC statement from Sept. 24: 

 The Federal Open Market Committee decided today to keep its target for the federal funds rate unchanged at 1-3/4 percent. 

 The information that has become available since the last meeting of the Committee suggests that aggregate demand is growing at a moderate pace. 

 Over time, the current accommodative stance of monetary policy, coupled with still robust underlying growth in productivity, should be sufficient to foster an improving business climate. However, considerable uncertainty persists about the extent and timing of the expected pickup in production and employment owing in part to the emergence of heightened geopolitical risks. 

 Consequently, the Committee believes that, for the foreseeable future, against the background of its long-run goals of price stability and sustainable economic growth and of the information currently available, the risks are weighted mainly toward conditions that may generate economic weakness. 

 Voting for the FOMC monetary policy action were: Alan Greenspan, Chairman; William J. McDonough, Vice Chairman; Ben S. Bernanke; Susan S. Bies; Roger W. Ferguson, Jr.; Jerry L. Jordan; Donald L. Kohn; Mark W. Olson; Anthony M. Santomero, and Gary H. Stern. 

 Voting against the action were: Edward M. Gramlich and Robert D. McTeer, Jr. 

 Governor Gramlich and President McTeer preferred a reduction in the target for the federal funds rate. 

 ** Market News International Washington Bureau: (202) 371-2121 ** 

 [TOPICS: MMUFE$,MAUDT$,M$U 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPCWASHINGTON   ANDocument marnew0020021107dyb600132  



 HD UPDATE 2-POLL-Wall St sees Fed holding fire in coming months.    BY By Victoria Thieberger    WC804 words   PD7 November 2002   ET00:55   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2002 Reuters Limited
   LP NEW YORK, Nov 6 (Reuters) - The Federal Reserve will hold its fire over the next few months and hope the U.S. economy gets back on its feet after it injected a larger-than-expected dose of stimulus on Wednesday, Wall Street dealers say. 

 A Reuters survey of the top bond dealers on Wall Street, conducted after the Fed slashed the federal funds rate to 1.25 percent from 1.75 percent, found none expects another cut when the Fed meets again on Dec. 10, and just two out of 21 surveyed see another easing in January. 
   TD Economists interpreted the aggressive move by the Fed as an attempt to bolster business and consumer morale, and that the Fed is signaling its work is done by stating the risks to the U.S. economy are now evenly balanced between weakness and inflation. 

 "It's unusual behavior out of the Fed, but these are unusual times. Hopefully it'll work," said RBS Greenwich Capital Markets senior financial economist Stephen Stanley. 

 "They made an obvious attempt to give us a one-time, 50-basis-point shot," he added. 

 Most analysts, and certainly financial markets, were counting on a more modest quarter-percentage point cut on Wednesday, to be followed by a similar-sized move next month. That was because the Fed has said little publicly that signaled its concern, even as the economic figures deteriorated in recent weeks. 

 After a modest improvement in growth through the first half of the year, the economy has shed jobs for the past two months, consumer sentiment has tumbled, and manufacturing activity is declining again. 

 NOT RINGING ALARM BELLS 

 In its statement, the central bank said its half-percentage-point rate cut should help "as the economy works its way through this current soft spot", suggesting the slowdown is temporary and the underlying fundamentals are sound. 

 "Whether in their hearts they believe the economy will get through this rough period with this 50 points of Fed easing is a different story, but they could not afford to stay idle. That was the main message of their move," said Banc One Capital Markets senior economist Anthony Karydakis, who was in the minority of forecasting a half-point cut on Wednesday. 

 He said the Fed had to reaffirm its confidence in the longer-term prospects of the economy so as not to sound alarmist. But if the economic data continue to deteriorate, it could easily lower rates again. 

 "They are a bunch of fairly nervous people. The numbers show there is erosion in the forward momentum of the recovery. The recovery is dead in the water for all practical purposes," Karydakis said. 

 A majority of primary dealers, who work directly with the Fed in the markets, said they expect the central bank to hold rates at 1.25 percent through mid 2003. Of 21 surveyed, 13 see the Fed holding steady, while three see additional rate cuts and one forecasts a rate increase. Four gave no view. 

 All year, the recovery has depended on consumers' willingness to keep spending on new cars and houses, while businesses have held back from commitments to spend on new equipment and buildings or hire new workers. 

 But consumer spending has already slowed, especially on autos, and some economists worry that should the mighty U.S. consumer falters, the economy could tip back into recession. 

 "My thoughts about the January 29 meeting are conditional on three things: First whether we are at war with Iraq. Secondly, whether the Republicans can legislate a tax cut. And third, how good or bad Christmas sales are," said Brian Fabbri, chief U.S. economist at BNP Paribas. 

 Coming up to the all-important holiday season for retailers, who book about a quarter of their sales in the November-December season, Wednesday's easing will provide some psychological boost that consumers will not close their wallets just yet. And cheaper credit may sustain growth in the housing sector. 

 The Fed's bold action could also lift the chances of some concerted central bank action to support sluggish global growth, if not this week, then before the end of the year. 

 Both the European Central Bank and the Bank of England announce interest rate decisions on Thursday, and financial markets see a 50-50 chance of an easing by each bank this week and have fully priced in cuts by year-end. 

 While rate cuts would not be formally coordinated, the next several weeks gives central banks an opportunity to act in a concerted way to help revive growth in major economies. 

 The Fed's action on Wednesday, the first since the 11 cuts it made in 2001, takes the total amount of easing to 5.25 percentage points. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nsur : Survey/Poll   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument lba0000020021106dyb6018x1  



 HD UPDATE 1-Fed rate cut no balm for debt-laden U.S. consumers.    BY By Dena Aubin    WC938 words   PD6 November 2002   ET20:56   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2002 Reuters Limited
   LP (Refiles to fix paragraph indentations in body of story) 

 NEW YORK, Nov 6 (Reuters) - For all too many Americans struggling to dig out from debt, Wednesday's surprisingly big cut in interest rates by the Federal Reserve may help very little, experts say. 
   TD Personal bankruptcy rates are rising, job growth has stalled and consumer debt is at an all-time high. So it's unclear - even after the Fed cut rates by an aggressive one-half percentage point - whether the tapped-out consumers can do much more to keep the economy humming. 

 "More and more Americans are living life styles they can't afford using borrowed money," said Steve Rhode, president of Myvesta, a financial crisis center in Rockville, Maryland. "It's not just credit cards - it's homes too big for them to afford, cars too big for them to afford." 

 Said G. Ray Warner, resident scholar at the American Bankruptcy Institute, "We may actually be hitting the point where the average American consumer doesn't want to acquire more credit regardless of rates." 

 Consumers have powered two-thirds of U.S. economic growth in recent quarters, and much of that spending has relied on borrowed money. Eleven interest rate cuts by the Fed last year kept consumer spending robust, but that came at a troubling cost. 

 Credit quality has slumped, for one thing, so rates on credit cards and other loans may remain high, despite the Fed's decision to cut short-term rates to 1.25 percent from four-decade lows of 1.75 percent. 

 U.S. consumers were on the hook for $1.73 trillion in credit card bills, auto loans and other loans excluding mortgages through the end of August, according to the Federal Reserve, up from $1.67 trillion at the end of last year and $1.56 trillion at the end of 2000. 

 A critical factor ahead is how many people lose their jobs as the U.S. economy recovers slowly and sluggishly. The Fed's action reflected clear concern that the recovery is losing steam. Take a job away from the thousands of over-extended consumers and you have a recipe for rising credit defaults and personal bankruptcies. 

 "A rise by unemployment above the most recent peak of 6 percent in April 2002 to 6.5 percent would be a warning sign," said John Lonski, chief economist for rating agency Moody's Investors Service. 

 CREDIT HOUSE OF CARDS 

 Debt loads, as a percentage of disposable income, hit 14.39 percent at the end of last year, at least a two-decade high, the Federal Reserve reported. Personal bankruptcies rose by 8.6 percent to a record 1.47 million for the 12-month period ending June 30, according to the Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts. 

 Slumping credit quality has not yet sparked a broad consumer credit crunch or exerted a significant drag on growth, economists say. Yet some worry that if layoffs increase, more consumers will run into trouble paying bills, and a deeper cutback in spending will result. 

 The latest dive in consumer sentiment, which in October plunged to its lowest reading since 1993, suggests that debt repayment has become more burdensome, some economists believe. 

 A cut in interest rates could give a lift to consumer sentiment, and it will trim some borrowing costs, consumer experts say. About one-half of credit card loans are tied to variable rates, and those will fall slightly, according to the Consumer Federation of America. 

 "But credit card companies can turn around and increase the formula they use to calculate that rate," said Stephen Brobeck, the Consumer Federation's executive director. 

 HIGH-RISK DEBT SWELLS 

 Despite a 4.75 percent reduction in short-term rates by the Fed last year, rates on bank credit cards fell by just 1.35 percent on average, according the Consumer Federation. 

 According to Sara Johnson, managing director for economic forecasting firm Global Insight: "The problem is accumulated past debt, much of which is at rates that will not respond to the cut." 

 Another problem is growing risk on outstanding debt. 

 "One of the big determining factors for the rates you're charged is the risk pool you're in," said Myvesta's Rhode. "If the credit card company has labeled you as less than a prime, prime credit risk, then interest rates are probably not going to go down much at all." 

 Many credit card contracts also have floors on interest rates, and those were hit some time ago, said Warner of the American Bankruptcy Institute. 

 During the boom years of the late 1990s, companies showered consumers with easy credit, and many lent money to riskier customers, said Johnson of Global Insight. 

 "There was tremendous growth in lending to high-risk households," she said. "Now that we've come through a period of recession, we're seeing more defaults and delinquencies as a result of job losses." 

 Yet there are signs that consumers are ready to break their debt habit as they face a sluggish recovery and stagnant job market. In a recent survey by the Cambridge Consumer Credit Index, about 85 percent of consumers said they expected to trim debt over the next month, while only 15 percent said they expected to add. 

 A rate cut may not change that cautious view. 

 "It's doubtful that a rate cut will significantly diminish uncertainties regarding the outlook for consumer spending," said Lonski, the Moody's chief economist. "It by no means will assure a significantly stronger holiday shopping season." 
   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1106 : Consumer Credit/Expenditure/Savings | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument lba0000020021106dyb60124m  



 HD UPDATE 1-Fed rate cut no balm for debt-laden U.S. consumers.    BY By Dena Aubin    WC929 words   PD6 November 2002   ET20:46   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2002 Reuters Limited
   LP NEW YORK, Nov 6 (Reuters) - For all too many Americans struggling to dig out from debt, Wednesday's surprisingly big cut in interest rates by the Federal Reserve may help very little, experts say. 

 Personal bankruptcy rates are rising, job growth has stalled and consumer debt is at an all-time high. So it's unclear - even after the Fed cut rates by an aggressive one-half percentage point - whether the tapped-out consumers can do much more to keep the economy humming. 
   TD "More and more Americans are living life styles they can't afford using borrowed money," said Steve Rhode, president of Myvesta, a financial crisis center in Rockville, Maryland. "It's not just credit cards - it's homes too big for them to afford, cars too big for them to afford." 

 Said G. Ray Warner, resident scholar at the American Bankruptcy Institute, "We may actually be hitting the point where the average American consumer doesn't want to acquire more credit regardless of rates." 

 Consumers have powered two-thirds of U.S. economic growth in recent quarters, and much of that spending has relied on borrowed money. Eleven interest rate cuts by the Fed last year kept consumer spending robust, but that came at a troubling cost. 

 Credit quality has slumped, for one thing, so rates on credit cards and other loans may remain high, despite the Fed's decision to cut short-term rates to 1.25 percent from four-decade lows of 1.75 percent. 

 U.S. consumers were on the hook for $1.73 trillion in credit card bills, auto loans and other loans excluding mortgages through the end of August, according to the Federal Reserve, up from $1.67 trillion at the end of last year and $1.56 trillion at the end of 2000. 

 A critical factor ahead is how many people lose their jobs as the U.S. economy recovers slowly and sluggishly. The Fed's action reflected clear concern that the recovery is losing steam. Take a job away from the thousands of over-extended consumers and you have a recipe for rising credit defaults and personal bankruptcies. 

 "A rise by unemployment above the most recent peak of 6 percent in April 2002 to 6.5 percent would be a warning sign," said John Lonski, chief economist for rating agency Moody's Investors Service. 

 CREDIT HOUSE OF CARDS 

 Debt loads, as a percentage of disposable income, hit 14.39 percent at the end of last year, at least a two-decade high, the Federal Reserve reported. Personal bankruptcies rose by 8.6 percent to a record 1.47 million for the 12-month period ending June 30, according to the Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts. Slumping credit quality has not yet sparked a broad consumer credit crunch or exerted a significant drag on growth, economists say. Yet some worry that if layoffs increase, more consumers will run into trouble paying bills, and a deeper cutback in spending will result. 

 The latest dive in consumer sentiment, which in October plunged to its lowest reading since 1993, suggests that debt repayment has become more burdensome, some economists believe. 

 A cut in interest rates could give a lift to consumer sentiment, and it will trim some borrowing costs, consumer experts say. About one-half of credit card loans are tied to variable rates, and those will fall slightly, according to the Consumer Federation of America. 

 "But credit card companies can turn around and increase the formula they use to calculate that rate," said Stephen Brobeck, the Consumer Federation's executive director. 

 HIGH-RISK DEBT SWELLS 

 Despite a 4.75 percent reduction in short-term rates by the Fed last year, rates on bank credit cards fell by just 1.35 percent on average, according the Consumer Federation. 

 According to Sara Johnson, managing director for economic forecasting firm Global Insight: "The problem is accumulated past debt, much of which is at rates that will not respond to the cut." 

 Another problem is growing risk on outstanding debt. 

 "One of the big determining factors for the rates you're charged is the risk pool you're in," said Myvesta's Rhode. "If the credit card company has labeled you as less than a prime, prime credit risk, then interest rates are probably not going to go down much at all." 

 Many credit card contracts also have floors on interest rates, and those were hit some time ago, said Warner of the American Bankruptcy Institute. 

 During the boom years of the late 1990s, companies showered consumers with easy credit, and many lent money to riskier customers, said Johnson of Global Insight. 

 "There was tremendous growth in lending to high-risk households," she said. "Now that we've come through a period of recession, we're seeing more defaults and delinquencies as a result of job losses." 

 Yet there are signs that consumers are ready to break their debt habit as they face a sluggish recovery and stagnant job market. In a recent survey by the Cambridge Consumer Credit Index, about 85 percent of consumers said they expected to trim debt over the next month, while only 15 percent said they expected to add. 

 A rate cut may not change that cautious view. 

 "It's doubtful that a rate cut will significantly diminish uncertainties regarding the outlook for consumer spending," said Lonski, the Moody's chief economist. "It by no means will assure a significantly stronger holiday shopping season." 
   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1106 : Consumer Credit/Expenditure/Savings | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument lba0000020021106dyb6011yp  



 HD UPDATE 7-INSTANT VIEW-FRX/DBT-Fed cuts rates 50 bps, neutral.    WC1,105 words   PD6 November 2002   ET20:41   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2002 Reuters Limited
   LP NEW YORK, Nov 6 (Reuters) - Following are comments from economists and market strategists after the Federal Reserve surprised the markets on Wednesday by cutting short term-term interest rates by a half percentage point and shifting the policy stance to neutral. 

 Its first move this year following 11 rate cuts in 2001 brought the benchmark federal funds rate to a fresh four-decade low of 1.25 percent from 1.75 percent. 
   TD MITCH STAPLEY, CHIEF FIXED INCOME OFFICER, FIFTH/THIRD INVESTMENT ADVISORS, GRAND RAPIDS, MICHIGAN: 

 "That's surprising. The expectation was for a cut of 25 basis points. The markets really have to go out and reassess where the economy is. Cleary the Federal Reserve is seeing more risk of weakness than had been apparent to us." 

 SHARON STARK, CHIEF FIXED INCOME MARKET STRATEGIST, LEGG MASON, BALTIMORE: 

 "Wow. Very surprised, very surprised. I think what they're saying is that they're going to do this all at one time, and they also I believe are acknowledging that the recovery is in progress but that they're giving it a booster shot here. 

 "I'm not quite sure how they think it's really going to help. Because they cite things in their announcement that incoming economic data have tended to confirm greater economic uncertainty in part attributed to heightened geopolitical risks to spending, production and employment. 

 "How does a lower Fed funds rate remedy those issues? I'm not sure how it does. I think the move is psychological. To some extent, I don't know if it's completely politically motivated but I think that had something to do with it is as well. The fact that it was unanimous is shocking. That's very surprising. That tells me that somebody had to convince Chairman Greenspan that this was the right thing to do and everyone else went along with it. 

 "They've also sent a signal to the market that they are done, that this is the last move. I think they're in trouble now if it doesn't work. You have an effective fed funds rate, a real fed funds rate virtually at zero. There is not much more monetary stimulus that they can add. That says to Congress: it's your move." 

 FRANK NOTHAFT, CHIEF ECONOMIST, FREDDIE MAC, MCLEAN, VA.: 

 "Most people were surprised. There's not a question the economy has been very sluggish and weak. There are no inflationary pressures. The Fed has ample room to engage in an accommodative monetary policy. There is no question the economic data in the last month has been weaker than expected. On the whole, its probably good news in the near term for housing, which is very interest-rate sensitive. 

 "ARM (adjustable rate mortgages) rates will go down. This helps to enhance affordability and the home purchase market." 

 CAROL STONE, DEPUTY CHIEF ECONOMIST, NOMURA SECURITIES, NEW YORK: 

 "Bold and aggressive. There's ample evidence that the economy is dead in the water, and this was the Fed's effort to get it going again. The Fed is saying we need to be as supportive to the economy as we can during this period of geopolitical risk." 

 KEVIN LOGAN, SENIOR ECONOMIST, DRESDNER KLEINWORT WASSERSTEIN, NEW YORK: 

 "What they're trying to signal is they don't intend to cut rates in December. They're saying, this is a significant cut in rates. This should have ameliorating effect on the economy. 

 "I still believe there's still a risk the economy's growth will be below par. There's a risk there will be another rate cut in the first quarter." 

 STEVE RICCHIUTO, CHIEF U.S. ECONOMIST, ABN AMRO, NEW YORK: 

 "The move hasn't had a good effect on the long end of the yield curve..It's the long rates that matter, and at this point it did not have the desired effect. Until credit spreads narrow, we won't know if the cut will have any effect on the economy. 

 JAMES PADINHA, ECONOMIC STRATEGIST, ARNHOLD AND S. BLEICHROEDER, INC., LOS ANGELES: 

 "If the goal is to kick start the economy, a 50 basis point cut does that better than a 25 basis point cut. If they handed out a 25 basis point cut, we'd all be sitting around for five more weeks, waiting to see if they did another 25 basis points in December. 

 "Their message to consumers and firms is - we're fundamentally okay, we understand there are geopolitical risks, but go out and spend. This is one of the few times in the last 10 years when the Fed did exactly the right thing, in terms of the cut and upgrading the risk assessment. If we're on the path to disaster, saving ammunition won't matter anyway." 

 DAVID DURRANT, CHIEF CURRENCY STRATEGIST AT BANK JULIUS BAER, NEW YORK: 

 "This should create a somewhat softer dollar. If (the Fed) can fight deflation and the fiscal side is going to create growth, then when inflation shows up they can quickly take the cut back. When we eventually get the statements, we may be looking at something in which the Fed is willing, provided we don't end up with global deflation, to take the cuts back sometime down the road. There's a watershed here because of last night's election as well." 

 JAMES KOCHAN, FIXED-INCOME STRATEGIST, STRONG CAPITAL MANAGEMENT, MENOMONEE FALLS, WISC.: 

 "The reduction in the funds rate was not a surprise, but 50 basis points was, at least to most people. Apparently, the FOMC felt that the funds rate was going to get to 1.25 percent by year end anyway, so they might as well accomplish it in one step, rather than two. 

 "The interesting thing is the statement that they released saying that the risks to the economy - or to the economic outlook - are now balanced between weakness and inflation, or weakness and strength, suggests very strongly that they feel this is enough, that they don't anticipate more easing, certainly not at the next FOMC meeting and by implication they feel they're finished as far as this economic cycle is concerned. It remains to be seen whether that's correct, but that's clearly the message of this statement. Yes, the economy needs a bit additional stimulus because of the decline in consumer confidence and business confidence for a variety of reasons to get us through this soft spot, they said. And that nothing further, in their mind anyway, right now anyway, nothing further needs to be done." 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument lba0000020021106dyb601172  



 HD TEXT-FOMC statement following Nov. 6 meeting.    WC511 words   PD6 November 2002   ET20:17   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2002 Reuters Limited
   LP
WASHINGTON, Nov 6 (Reuters) - Following is the full text of
the Federal Open Market Committee's statement issued Wednesday
at the conclusion of its interest rate policy meeting:
"The Federal Open Market Committee decided today to lower



its target for the federal funds rate by 50 basis points to 1

   TD 1/4 percent. In a related action, the Board of Governors 

 approved a 50 basis point reduction in the discount rate to 3/4 

 percent. 

 The Committee continues to believe that an accommodative 

 stance of monetary policy, coupled with still-robust underlying 

 growth in productivity, is providing important ongoing support 

 to economic activity. However, incoming economic data have 

 tended to confirm that greater uncertainty, in part 

 attributable to heightened geopolitical risks, is currently 

 inhibiting spending, production, and employment. Inflation and 

 inflation expectations remain well contained. 

 In these circumstances, the Committee believes that today's 

 additional monetary easing should prove helpful as the economy 

 works its way through this current soft spot. With this action, 

 the Committee believes that, against the background of its 

 long-run goals of price stability and sustainable economic 

 growth and of the information currently available, the risks 

 are balanced with respect to the prospects for both goals in 

 the foreseeable future. 

 Voting for the FOMC monetary policy action were Alan 

 Greenspan, Chairman; William J. McDonough, Vice Chairman; Ben 

 S. Bernanke, Susan S. Bies; Roger W. Ferguson, Jr.; Edward M. 

 Gramlich; Jerry L. Jordan; Donald L. Kohn, Robert D. McTeer, 

 Jr.; Mark W. Olson; Anthony M. Santomero, and Gary H. Stern. 

 In taking the discount rate action, the Federal Reserve

 Board approved the requests submitted by the Boards of 

 Directors of the Federal Reserve Banks of Dallas and New 

 York." 

 FOLLOWING IS THE FOMC STATEMENT FROM ITS SEPT. 24 MEETING: 

 "The Federal Open Market Committee decided today to keep 

 its target for the federal funds rate unchanged at 1 3/4 

 percent. 

 The information that has become available since the last 

 meeting of the Committee suggests that aggregate demand is 

 growing at a moderate pace. 

 Over time, the current accommodative stance of monetary 

 policy, coupled with still robust underlying growth in 

 productivity, should be sufficient to foster an improving 

 business climate. However, considerable uncertainty persists 

 about the extent and timing of the expected pickup in 

 production and employment owing in part to the emergence of 

 heightened geopolitical risks. 

 Consequently, the Committee believes that, for the 

 foreseeable future, against the background of its long-run 

 goals of price stability and sustainable economic growth and of 

 the information currently available, the risks are weighted 

 mainly toward conditions that may generate economic weakness. 

 Voting for the FOMC monetary policy action were: Alan 

 Greenspan, Chairman; William J. McDonough, Vice Chairman; Ben 

 S. Bernanke; Susan S. Bies; Roger W. Ferguson, Jr.; Jerry L. 

 Jordan; Donald L. Kohn; Mark W. Olson; Anthony M. Santomero, 

 and Gary H. Stern. 


Voting against the action were: Edward M. Gramlich and
Robert D. McTeer, Jr.
Governor Gramlich and President McTeer preferred a



reduction in the target for the federal funds rate."

   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument lba0000020021106dyb60116y  



 HD Fed rate cut no balm for debt-laden U.S. consumers.    BY By Dena Aubin    WC913 words   PD6 November 2002   ET15:37   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2002 Reuters Limited
   LP NEW YORK, Nov 6 (Reuters) - For all too many Americans struggling to dig out from debt, a cut in interest rates by the Federal Reserve may help very little, experts say. 

 Personal bankruptcy rates are rising, job growth has stalled and consumer debt is at an all-time high. So it's unclear - even if the Fed cuts rates by a quarter percentage point on Wednesday as expected - whether the tapped-out consumers can do much more to keep the economy humming. 
   TD "More and more Americans are living life styles they can't afford using borrowed money," said Steve Rhode, president of Myvesta, a financial crisis center in Rockville, Maryland. "It's not just credit cards - it's homes too big for them to afford, cars too big for them to afford." 

 Said G. Ray Warner, resident scholar at the American Bankruptcy Institute, "We may actually be hitting the point where the average American consumer doesn't want to acquire more credit regardless of rates." 

 Consumers have powered two-thirds of U.S. economic growth in recent quarters, and much of that spending has relied on borrowed money. Eleven interest rate cuts by the Fed last year kept consumer spending robust, but that came at a troubling cost. 

 Credit quality has slumped, for one thing, so rates on credit cards and other loans may remain high, even if the Fed does cut short-term rates to 1.50 percent from current four-decade lows of 1.75 percent. 

 U.S. consumers were on the hook for $1.73 trillion in credit card bills, auto loans and other loans excluding mortgages through the end of August, according to the Federal Reserve, up from $1.67 trillion at the end of last year and $1.56 trillion at the end of 2000. 

 A critical factor ahead is how many people lose their jobs as the U.S. economy recovers slowly and sluggishly. Take a job away from the thousands of over-extended consumers and you have a recipe for rising credit defaults and personal bankruptcies. 

 "A rise by unemployment above the most recent peak of 6 percent in April 2002 to 6.5 percent would be a warning sign," said John Lonski, chief economist for rating agency Moody's Investors Service. 

 CREDIT HOUSE OF CARDS 

 Debt loads, as a percentage of disposable income, hit 14.39 percent at the end of last year, at least a two-decade high, the Federal Reserve reported. Personal bankruptcies rose by 8.6 percent to a record 1.47 million for the 12-month period ending June 30, according to the Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts. 

 Slumping credit quality has not yet sparked a broad consumer credit crunch or exerted a significant drag on growth, economists say. Yet some worry that if layoffs increase, more consumers will run into trouble paying bills, and a deeper cutback in spending will result. 

 The latest dive in consumer sentiment, which in October plunged to its lowest reading since 1993, suggests that debt repayment has become more burdensome, some economists believe. 

 A cut in interest rates could give a lift to consumer sentiment, and it will trim some borrowing costs, consumer experts say. About one-half of credit card loans are tied to variable rates, and those will fall slightly, according to the Consumer Federation of America. 

 "But credit card companies can turn around and increase the formula they use to calculate that rate," said Stephen Brobeck, the Consumer Federation's executive director. 

 HIGH-RISK DEBT SWELLS 

 Despite a 4.75 percent reduction in short-term rates by the Fed last year, rates on bank credit cards fell by just 1.35 percent on average, according the Consumer Federation. 

 According to Sara Johnson, managing director for economic forecasting firm Global Insight: "The problem is accumulated past debt, much of which is at rates that will not respond to the cut." 

 Another problem is growing risk on outstanding debt. 

 "One of the big determining factors for the rates you're charged is the risk pool you're in," said Myvesta's Rhode. "If the credit card company has labeled you as less than a prime, prime credit risk, then interest rates are probably not going to go down much at all." 

 Many credit card contracts also have floors on interest rates, and those were hit some time ago, said Warner of the American Bankruptcy Institute. 

 During the boom years of the late 1990s, companies showered consumers with easy credit, and many lent money to riskier customers, said Johnson of Global Insight. 

 "There was tremendous growth in lending to high-risk households," she said. "Now that we've come through a period of recession, we're seeing more defaults and delinquencies as a result of job losses." 

 Yet there are signs that consumers are ready to break their debt habit as they face a sluggish recovery and stagnant job market. In a recent survey by the Cambridge Consumer Credit Index, about 85 percent of consumers said they expected to trim debt over the next month, while only 15 percent said they expected to add. 

 A rate cut may not change that cautious view. 

 "It's doubtful that a rate cut will significantly diminish uncertainties regarding the outlook for consumer spending," said Lonski, the Moody's chief economist. "It by no means will assure a significantly stronger holiday shopping season." 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument lba0000020021106dyb600s93  



 HD Not all of Asia will follow U.S.  interest rate  lead.    BY By John Mair    WC757 words   PD6 November 2002   ET10:05   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2002 Reuters Limited
   LP SINGAPORE, Nov 6 (Reuters) - A cut in interest rates by the U.S. Federal Reserve will give Asian economies the opportunity to follow suit, but not all of them will seize it. 

 Expectations the Fed will cut rates by at least 25 basis points on Wednesday have helped Asian share markets rise this week, which in turn has driven regional currencies to their highest levels against the U.S. dollar for several weeks. 
   TD Sustained currency strength would back the case for rate cuts, but the impact would be limited in economies where the banks are flush with cash but burdened with bad debts. 

 "I don't think it's going to be a 'one size fits all' approach," HSBC regional economist Mike Newton said. 

 Much will depend on how the Federal Open Market Committee explains the cut. If there are worries about the prospect of a double-dip recession, it would be bad news for Asia, which relies heavily on U.S. demand for its exports to drive the economy. 

 "The overall take of the FOMC statement cannot be too negative, else it risks undermining investor, consumer and business confidence further, which defeats the purpose of Fed easing in the first place," said Jimmy Koh, head of treasury research at United Overseas Bank in Singapore. 

 The expected U.S. rate cut comes as oil prices ease to around 17-week lows after spiking to over $30 a barrel on concerns about a war in Iraq, removing both a constraint on growth and a potential inflation worry for much of Asia. 

 "The general feeling is a U.S. rate cut would be positive for the region generally, and any reduction in rhetoric with regards to Iraq would also be positive, but I don't think it changes the eventuality that the U.S. goes in," said Steve Brice, chief economist for Southeast Asia at Standard Chartered Bank. 

 PHILIPPINE DILEMMA 

 The Philippines presents an interesting case. Inflation is low, but there is already a lot of excess cash in the banking system so a cut would not spur much new lending activity. 

 And while a cut to follow the Fed could boost sentiment and help the budget deficit woes - which saw Standard & Poor's cut its ratings outlook to negative last week - it could also undermine the Philippine peso and worsen the fiscal postion. 

 "The Philippine economy remains afflicted by a weak banking system and persistent security risks, thus while lower-than-expected inflation may keep government borrowing in check, it is unlikely...that such a cut will significantly stimulate Philippine capital investment," UBS Warburg strategist Naomi Fink said. 

 The Bank of Korea, which meets on Thursday, is also expected to sit pat. Officials had been worried about a housing bubble threatening inflation, but signs that the strong domestic economy is moderating should see rates steady for another month. 

 Singapore is also expected to keep its neutral policy stance via its trade-weighted currency band. The Monetary Authority of Singapore (MAS) does not have a policy rate it shifts, although market rates have eased since weak GDP data last month. 

 "While the MAS will continue to maintain its neutral currency policy bias, it will probably be more comfortable in pushing the nominal effective exchange rate toward the weak side of the band," William Belchere, chief economist for JP Morgan Chase in Hong Kong, wrote in a report. 

 Hong Kong, because of its currency peg, will follow any U.S. rate cut, and others also expected to do so include Taiwan and Thailand - although maybe not straight away. 

 Economists said Taiwan may only follow with half of any Federal Reserve cut, but a common problem remained - with a banking system struggling with non-performing loans a rate cut was unlikely to spur much response. 

 "They're not in a position whereby central bankers, I think, have a lot of confidence that cutting rates will stimulate domestic activity," HSBC's Newton said. 

 Thailand has a reasonably robust economy, but is also hampered by worries over banking sector bad debts and signs that momentum could slow next year - meaning the central bank may cut rates before the year-end even if the Fed does not. 

 "The country is bordering on deflation, we're looking for the Thai baht to strengthen into year-end, so both of those factors argue that the central bank should not be too worried about cutting interest rates," Standard Chartered's Brice said. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REasiaz : Asia | namz : North America | seasiaz : Southeast Asia | singp : Singapore | usa : United States   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument lba0000020021106dyb600hm1  



 HD Fed Cuts  Interest Rate  Half a Point    BY By MARTIN CRUTSINGER    CRAP Economics Writer   WC810 words   PD6 November 2002   SNAP Online   SCASP   LAEnglish   CY Copyright 2002 The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved. 
   LP WASHINGTON (AP) - The Federal Reserve on Wednesday reduced a key interest rate by one-half of a percentage point as the central bank tries to keep America's stop-and-go recovery from stalling amid rising worries about a war with Iraq. 

 Commercial banks were expected to respond by moving a benchmark consumer rate to its lowest point since 1959. 
   TD The Fed moved the federal funds rate from its already low 1.75 percent, where it had stood for 11 months, to 1.25 percent, surprising many analysts who had forecast a quarter-point move. They believed the Fed would want to conserve its power to aid the economy, given the bank's aggressive cuts last year that left it with little room to lower rates. 

 But analysts said the Fed apparently has grown so concerned about the weakening economy that it decided on bold action. In recent weeks, economic reports have shown unemployment rising to 5.7 percent, the manufacturing sector stumbling further and consumer confidence hitting a nine-year low. 

 "The Fed wanted to inject an element of surprise in an effort to boost financial markets and in that way lower risks from a wobbly economy and a possible war with Iraq," said Sung Won Sohn, chief economist at Wells Fargo in Minneapolis. 

 Wall Street had climbed to its highest level in two months in anticipation of a Fed rate and finished Wednesday with the Dow Jones industrial average gaining 92.74 points to close at 8,771.01. 

 M&T Bank, a large regional bank with branches in the Northeast, and AmSouth, a bank with 600 branches in the Southeast, were the first to cut first to respond by cutting their prime rates to 4.25 percent, the lowest level for this benchmark rate for millions of consumer and business loans since May 1959. Similar moves were expected by other commercial banks in the coming days. 

 The Fed also returned to a neutral policy stance - indicating that economic risks were equally balanced between inflation and weak growth. In August and September, the Fed's statement was weighted more toward economic weakness. 

 Some analysts said they believed this switch was meant to signal the half-point cut would be the only one this year. Other economists said they thought a further reduction could come at policy-makers' meeting either in December or January. 

 "If things improve and a possible war with Iraq recedes, then they may not have to cut rates again. But my guess is that we will get another quarter-point move in January," said David Wyss, chief economist at Standard & Poor's in New York. 

 The rate cut came on a 12-0 vote of the central bank's policy setting Federal Open Market Committee. At its last meeting in September, the Fed had a rare double dissent as two members argued that the economic dangers were sufficient to warrant a move then. 

 In 2001, the Fed cut rates 11 times, including eight half-point reductions, as it fought a recession and the economic fallout from the terrorist attacks against the United States, pushing the funds rate to 1.75 percent, the lowest level since it stood at 1.17 percent in July 1961. 

 In a one-page statement explaining Wednesday's move, the Fed said it believed recent signs of a faltering economy demanded further action. 

 "Incoming economic data have tended to confirm that greater uncertainty, in part attributable to heightened geopolitical risks, is currently inhibiting spending, production and employment," the Fed said. 

 In an optimistic note, the statement said, "Today's additional monetary easing should prove helpful as the economy works its way through this current soft spot." 

 Analysts said the rate cut will likely help sales of big-ticket items such as autos and homes. Sales of new and existing homes were already headed for record levels this year as mortgage rates have hovered at or just below 6 percent for much of this year, the lowest level since the mid-1960s. 

 Analysts predicted the half-point Fed rate cut will help keep rates around this level for the rest of this year. 

 Many forecasters say economic growth in the current October-December quarter could slow to just a 1 percent pace, down from a 3.1 percent growth rate in the third quarter. 

 Many economists said that with Republicans in control of both the House and Senate, the Bush administration is likely to move forward with legislation to stimulate growth. 

 "The economy is stalling out. It is not growing enough to generate jobs," said Mark Zandi, chief economist at Economy.com. "It is now incumbent on policy-makers to step up and provide fiscal stimulus." 

 --- 

Federal Reserve: http://www.federalreserve.gov
   RFAP-Fed-Interest-Rates; D7N4TGCG0   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPC1310   IPDFinancial/Business | General Financial/Business News   ANDocument asp0000020021106dyb6007eq  



 HD Fed slashes key rates half-point to boost shaky US economy    BY David Williams    WC604 words   PD6 November 2002   SNAgence France-Presse   SCAFPR   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright 2002) 
   LP WASHINGTON, Nov 6 (AFP) - US Federal Reserve policymakers slashed key interest rates Wednesday by half a percentage point in a final shot at firing up the flagging US economy, which has been hit by fears of a war with Iraq. 

 Chairman Alan Greenspan and his colleagues reduced the federal funds target rate to a 41-year low of 1.25 percent, in a move twice as big as had been expected by the markets. 
   TD The interest rate, which commercial banks charge each other for overnight loans, remains at its lowest level since July 1961. 

 "Concerned over the wobbly economy and the threat of deflation, the Federal Reserve cut the Federal Funds rate by half a point," said Wells Fargo Bank chief economist Sung Won Sohn. 

 "A possible war against Iraq could further rattle the economy and the financial markets. The central bank has taken out an insurance policy to support the economy." 

Federal Reserve policymakers sent a message that the 12th successive lowering in interest rates should also be the last. 

 Already, lower interest rates were supporting economic growth, the policy-making Federal Open Market Committee said in a statement after unanimously voting for the fresh cut. 

 "However, incoming economic data have tended to confirm that greater uncertainty, in part attributable to heightened geopolitical risks, is currently inhibiting spending, production, and employment." 

 Significantly, the Federal Reserve also changed its stance on future cuts to neutral. 

 The risks ahead were balanced, indicating no bias towards cutting or raising rates in the foreseeable future, the statement said. Previously, the committee said there was a greater risk of weakness ahead. 

 Financial markets appeared stunned. 

 Wall Street's Dow Jones industrials average of 30 top stocks rallied the news broke and then slumped. But 45 minutes later, it was up 33.64 points, or 0.39 percent, at 8,711.91. 

 The euro gained strength, rising above parity with the greenback to 1.0003 dollars. The dramatic rate cut "shows that the economy needs support," said Thomas Benfer, economist at Bank of Montreal. 

 The Federal Reserve cut came on the eve of meetings by the European Central Bank, which is widely expected to hold firm on interest rates, and the Bank of England, which some experts expect to cut. 

 Lower interest rates generally weaken a currency because they reduce the return on investments such as bonds. 

 "It is a very, very brilliant move," said Naroff Economic Advisors president and chief economist Joel Naroff. 

 "The way they did a cut of 50 basis points and changed the bias to neutral is an attempt to set the record straight: they do not want to go further," Naroff said. 

 The Federal Reserve acted after a welter of grim economic data in past weeks. 

 In October, the US unemployment rate rose to 5.7 percent from 5.6 percent in September, US consumer confidence plunged to a nine-year low and sales of new cars and trucks slumped. 

 Manufacturers, hit by a dock strike and shaken by fears of war in Iraq, cut back activity in October for the second month in a row. 

 Sal Guatieri, Chicago-based global economist at Bank of Montreal, said US economic growth was likely to drop to just 1.8 percent in the last quarter of this year, from 3.1 percent in the July- September period. 

 "Obviously the Fed is worried enough about confidence and the impact of uncertainty about a possible attack on Iraq that it saw the need to go that extra step and shore up confidence," Guatieri said 

 djw/ 
   COnwbc : Wells Fargo & Company   INi814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REeurz : Europe | namz : North America | usa : United States   IPDFinancial | SEQN: 0820   ANDocument afpr000020021106dyb600etg  



 HD Chinese Markets Pay Close Heed To the U.S. Fed    BY By James T. Areddy    CRDow Jones Newswires   WC708 words   PD6 November 2002   SNThe Asian Wall Street Journal   SCAWSJ   PGM7   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 2002, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP SHANGHAI -- Chinese financial-market participants will be holding their breath today when the U.S. Federal Reserve Board deliberates over interest rates. 

 Even shielded behind a wall of capital controls, paying heed to Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan reflects how the Chinese financial system is integrating with the rest of the world economy -- and doing so faster than rules would suggest. Central Banker Dai Xianglong two months ago called on the U.S. to lower interest rates, and many see Chinese credit conditions increasingly affected by the tone set by the Fed. 
   TD "I am really concerned about the Fed's decision on interest rates," says a Shanghai bond trader at Shenyin & Wanguo Securities Co. 

 "I even watch the U.S. stock market movement on TV almost every evening" since performance of the Dow Jones Industrial Average "may influence Greenspan's decision," he adds. 

 Government currency regulations continue to mean the Chinese markets are sealed against international capital flows. Most financial assets remain off limits to foreign investors, and the only international investments available to Chinese are foreign-currency deposits at state-owned banks. 

 So, no one expects the People's Bank of China, or PBOC, to match a possible U.S. move the way the European Central Bank might. And a U.S. rate change isn't expected to whip the yuan the way it could the Japanese yen. 

 But China's high dependence on U.S. consumption means that reflating the world's biggest economy with a monetary policy change could still have far-reaching ramifications for the Chinese economy. 

 Chinese exports remain robust this year, up 19% in the first nine months of the year from the 2001 level. However, exports to the U.S. were only up 5% to $50.1 billion. 

 Moreover, by the third quarter of this year, total exports had slipped well behind government spending as the major driver of economic growth. And, as Chinese markets increasingly price in the costs associated with deficit spending, economists see local market performance as increasingly tied to the timing of a U.S. recovery. 

 "The correlation between the U.S. economy and the Chinese economy has been growing, especially in terms of trade and capital flows," according to Zhang Dong, an analyst at Great Wall Securities in Shenzhen. 

 "Although a U.S. rate cut would not bring direct and prompt influence on China's decision on yuan interest rates or the bond market itself, it does have some indirect and medium- to long-term effects," he adds. 

 In any case, says Mr. Zhang, "Expectations for another yuan interest rate cut this year or in the new future has almost been eliminated." 

 Economists say the U.S. central bank's 11 rapid-fire rate reductions in 2001 showed the Fed wasn't fooling around, and got Chinese investors to focus on how trouble in their biggest export market might ricochet back to impact them. 

 Some suspect that the Fed's strong show of concern -- its 11 cuts last year lowered the federal funds rate to 1.75% from 6% -- for the first time led directly to a Chinese central bank rate cut, in February this year. The PBOC reduced the benchmark one-year yuan deposit rate by 0.27 percentage point to 1.98%, its first rate adjustment for two-and-one-half years. 

 Zhang Qi, an analyst at Haitong Securities in Shanghai, says selected stocks of Chinese exporters could get a boost from a U.S. interest-rate cut, although the impact would be very limited without a move in step by the PBOC on yuan rates. 

 Kang Haoping, a stock analyst at Jutian Securities in Shenzhen, predicts the Fed will cut the fed funds rate on Wednesday by 0.25 percentage point, from the current 1.75%. 

 But the Fed would raise concerns in doing so, Mr. Kang says. 

 "The impact of rate cuts is becoming less and less, since repeated rate cuts prove a worsening economy and heighten worries of delay in the recovery. So the impact of another U.S. rate cut on boosting U.S. consumption and U.S. imports is limited," he says. 
   COfed : Federal Reserve Board   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | gvexe : Executive Branch | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | m131 : Money Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REasiaz : Asia | china : China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America | usa : United States   ANDocument awsj000020021105dyb60001q  



 HD Currency Trading: Dollar Slips Against Its Rivals Ahead of Expected Fed Rate Cut    BY By Grainne McCarthy    CRDow Jones Newswires   WC632 words   PD6 November 2002   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGC14   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 2002, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP NEW YORK -- Continuing to suffer at the hands of an anticipated interest-rate cut by the Federal Reserve, the dollar slipped across the board, although some gains by U.S. stocks helped the currency crawl back a bit amid parity against the euro. 

 In what could be a pivotal week for the outlook for U.S. assets, the dollar is suffering from a perception that an easing by the Fed from already 40-year lows will only widen the already significant yield differential between short-term rates in the U.S. and elsewhere, particularly if the Bank of England and European Central Bank opt to stand pat at their policy meetings tomorrow. This would render it relatively less appealing for global investors to hold dollars. 
   TD "There has already been the start of a shift away from the U.S. in favor of other foreign markets and the first reflection of that is in the currencies and how the dollar has been suffering," said Thomas Sowanick, chief global fixed-income strategist with Merrill Lynch in New York. 

 Late yesterday, the dollar was trading at 121.79 yen, stronger than its 121.42-yen session low but down from 122.22 yen late Monday in New York. The euro was trading at $1.0002 off its high for the day around $1.0040 but up from 99.76 cents late Monday in New York. Against the Swiss franc, the dollar was at 1.4626 francs, down from 1.4663 francs late Monday in New York. Sterling was at $1.5633, up from $1.5574. 

 The dollar has also suffered from jitters surrounding the outcome of midterm elections in the U.S. 

 Although the elections aren't expected to have a large impact on currency markets, some analysts are concerned that a potential victory in both houses of Congress for the Republicans could provide President Bush with an excuse to push ahead with an attack on Iraq, regardless of a United Nations resolution on weapons inspection later this week. 

 This could send risk aversion among the international investment community rising again and undermine the dollar as funds are pulled back home. 

 "I still think the make or break story for the dollar is whether there is a multilateral or bilateral attack on Iraq," said David Gilmore, a partner at Foreign Exchange Analytics, in Essex, Conn. "You could see the dollar under more significant selling pressure if they can't agree." 

 The election outcome could also have other implications for the dollar, with a Republican clean sweep of the House and Senate hiking the prospects of more fiscal stimulus, a negative for the government bond market. 

 "That would get us more into the area of twin deficits . . . which in the past has come back to bite the dollar," said Alan Ruskin, research director at 4Cast financial consultancy in New York. 

 Much of the dollar's downward trend this year has been linked to the risks posed by the widening current account deficit, particularly in a scenario of waning foreign investment in the U.S. 

 As for a Fed rate cut, some analysts argue that the dollar could actually bounce if the U.S. central bank does cut rates, even if the broad market now expects it do to. 

 Rebecca Patterson, a currency strategist at J.P. Morgan Chase in New York, noted that the bank's internal sentiment and flow index shows the dollar is the most oversold since 1997, suggesting the potential for a rebound in the currency. 

 "It doesn't necessarily mean you're going to get an immediate dollar bounce, you need a trigger for it," she said. 

 --- 

 John Parry contributed to this article. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REasiaz : Asia | easiaz : Eastern Asia | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | jap : Japan | namz : North America | switz : Switzerland | uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | use : Northeast U.S. | usny : New York | weurz : Western Europe   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument j000000020021106dyb600040  



 CLMTuesday's Markets   HD Blue Chips Rally as Investors Expect A Rate Cut by the Fed; Dollar Eases    BY By E.S. Browning    WC1,050 words   PD6 November 2002   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGC1   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 2002, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP FIRST IT WAS THE election, now it's the Fed. 

 Wall Street kept its eyes focused on Washington, as hopes spread that the Federal Reserve will cut target short-term interest rates today, for the first time this year. 
   TD The prospect that a Fed rate cut might keep the stock rally aloft sent the Dow Jones Industrial Average up 1.2%, or 106.67 points, to 8678.27. That is a gain of 19% since stocks hit a five-year low Oct. 9, but the index is down 13% this year and is off 26% from the record it set during January 2000. 

 Treasury bonds fell slightly, continuing to give back some of their recent gains. The dollar weakened, with the euro moving above $1 for the first time in months as stronger-than-expected European economic news combined with the expected U.S. rate cut to trim the dollar's value. 

 While economists and stock analysts debated the wisdom of another Fed rate cut, the prevailing view was that it wouldn't hurt. "It's better than a sharp stick in the eye," says William Dudley, chief U.S. economist at New York brokerage firm Goldman Sachs. "It helps by supporting the stock market, and it encourages lending by making lending more profitable." 

 Mr. Dudley forecast the Fed will cut its target for the federal-funds rate, the rate at which banks lend each other money overnight, sharply during the coming months, bringing it down to 1% or even 0.75% from 1.75% now. The fed-funds rate hasn't been this low since the early 1960s, when it got down to 1.17%. It hasn't been in the vicinity of 1% since the late 1950s. 

 That has raised fears that the Fed has only a few rate cuts left before it runs out of ammunition. If the Fed cuts its target rates much below 1%, for example, it could create problems for short-term market rates that banks can offer on money funds, which would move close to zero. 

 Ever-lower rates also raise uncomfortable parallels to Japan, where the central bank has fought deflation by cutting its base rate almost to zero -- 0.1% now -- without producing consistent economic gains. 

 Economists say that, in a real economic crisis, the Fed could cut its target rates to zero if needed. A Fed staff study this summer concluded that Japan acted too slowly for its rate cuts to have the needed effect, and the Fed appears ready to cut rates more swiftly if needed. But few economists think deflation is an immediate risk. Goldman Sachs's Mr. Dudley, for example, says he doesn't expect the Fed to cut rates much below 1% unless the economic data prove truly weak. 

 Some investors worry that, with a quarter-point cut fully reflected in market prices, investors could react to such an announcement by selling stocks and taking profits. Those skeptics say it might take a half-point cut to sustain the rally in the short run. 

 But others fear such a sharp rate cut could make investors nervous, spreading fears the Fed is losing hope the economy will recover. 

 Stock investors shrugged off those concerns, though, sending the broad Standard & Poor's 500-stock index up 7.04 points to 915.39. That left it down 20% this year and 40% off its record. The Nasdaq Composite Index, dominated by technology stocks, rose 4.63 points to 1401.17, down 28% this year and 72% off its record. 

 "Investors want growth and they want it badly and they haven't gotten much of what they want," said Stuart 

 Schweitzer, global investment strategist at JPMorgan Fleming Asset Management, a money-management arm of J.P. Morgan Chase. "To rally further from here, investors are likely to need to become more confident than they are now about the profit outlook in 2003. The Fed will have an indirect impact, but we had 11 interest-rate cuts last year and it didn't buy us much growth in 2002." 

 Some experts say they think it is a bad idea to cut rates now. After studying the effect of rate cuts on the economy, Professor Edward Leamer of the University of California at Los Angeles concluded that the main impact is to spur consumer purchases of homes and cars. The impact on business spending is negligible, he said, possibly because businesses make investment decisions based mainly on demand for their products. Home purchases and car buying already are as strong as they are likely to get, he said, and more Fed rate cuts could be harmful. 

 "It's not some magic powder that the Fed sprinkles on the economy," he said. "The way the Fed influences the economy is through homes and cars." 

 William Dawson, chief investment officer for bonds at Pittsburgh mutual-fund group Federated Investors, expressed similar concerns in a report to clients: "Consumers are stretched and there already is a concern over a housing `bubble.' Some might look at a rate cut as a way to boost the stock market, a move that might improve CEOs' confidence to the point they'll be willing to increase capital spending. That logic seems a little stretched to us." 

 Since it takes as much as a year for a rate cut to affect the economy, he added, "the immediate impact would be psychological rather than real." 

 Outside the U.S., stocks advanced in dollar terms. The Dow Jones World Stock Index, excluding U.S. stocks, rose 0.76 point, to 106.33. 

 In major U.S. market action: 

 Stocks advanced. On the Big Board, where 1.32 billion shares traded, 1,669 stocks rose and 1,511 fell. 

 Bonds declined. The 10-year Treasury note fell 10/32, or $3.13 for each $1,000 invested. The yield, which moves inversely to price, rose to 4.073%. The 30-year bond was down 12/32 to yield 5.087%. 

 The dollar weakened. Late in New York, it traded at 121.79 yen, down from 122.22, while the euro rose against the dollar to $1.0002 from 99.76 cents. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpersf : Personal Finance | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | gvexe : Executive Branch | gvtre : Treasury Department | m11 : Equity Markets | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | m131 : Money Markets | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | mntdbt : National Government Debt/Bond Markets | ncat : Content Types | nsum : News Digest   REasiaz : Asia | easiaz : Eastern Asia | jap : Japan | namz : North America | usa : United States   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument j000000020021106dyb600035  



 HDFRONT PAGE - COMPANIES &MARKETS - Markets see Fed cut as a done deal - Aline van Duyn and Deborah ...   BYBy DEBORAH HARGREAVES and ALINE VAN DUYN.    WC708 words   PD6 November 2002   SNFinancial Times   SCFTFT   PG25   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2002 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPFRONT PAGE - COMPANIES &MARKETS - Markets see Fed cut as a done deal - Aline van Duyn and Deborah Hargreaves report on interest rates.

There are always some punters who bet against the market, but most of the money is on just one outcome from today's interest rate deliberations by the US Federal Reserve: a quarter-point cut.
   TDThe already low US rate of 1.75 per cent will fall to 1.50 per cent, according to the futures markets. Then, by January, the Fed will cut rates by another quarter-point.

Tomorrow, central bankers in the UK and the eurozone will also decide whether to cut interest rates. The futures markets suggest they will not do so this week, however, but will in December.

Equity markets have already rallied in anticipation of the cuts. Investors are looking for the Fed to take action to stimulate the ailing US economy and they predict the European Central Bank will follow its lead.

In spite of the poor economic outlook in the US, the Dow Jones Industrial Average staged its best monthly performance for 15 years in October, rising 10.6 per cent. European and UK markets have been bolstered by Wall Street's strength. From their closes on Friday October 25, the Dow is up 2 per cent, the S&P 500 1.3 per cent and the FTSE 100 2.3 per cent.

"People have been keyed up by the Fed hinting publicly that it is thinking of cutting," says Ian Harwood, global head of economics and strategy at Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein. "But they will be disappointed if the ECB doesn't follow suit."

Michael Hughes, chief investment officer at Baring Asset Management, argues that a rate cut by the ECB is crucial, but the US could get away without a reduction.

"The situation in the US could be turning more than people think and if the absence of a cut was presented in the right way, the market would not take it badly."

But if the ECB does not move to stimulate demand, he believes this will have a negative impact on European stock markets. "Domestic demand in Europe, particularly Germany, has deteriorated, whereas in the US it might be slightly more positive than people expect."

The way the interest rate futures market works means that the timing of US cuts can be predicted more accurately than those in the UK and eurozone.

The Fed funds future is a monthly futures contract. The November future is pricing in rates of 1.5 per cent, the December contract 1.4 per cent and January, 1.3 per cent.

In Europe, three-month contracts are used, meaning that the timing cannot be pinpointed as precisely and that the implied rates are not completely in line with official interest rates, which represent overnight borrowing costs.

In the UK, December short sterling futures are pricing in three-month rates of 3.8 per cent in December, roughly in line with a repo rate of 3.75 per cent, a quarter-point lower than the current 4 per cent. No more cuts are expected by futures markets after that.

In the eurozone, two cuts are priced in. In December, Euribor futures are pricing in three-month rates of 3.02 per cent, in line with a quarter-point cut in the current 3.25 per cent repo rate.

However, another indication from the futures market is that low interest rates are not expected to last. By this time next year, the US and Europe are expected to raise interest rates again.

"The markets are saying that monetary policy works, and that central banks will have to start putting rates up again by this time next year," says Ian Douglas, global fixed income strategist at UBS Warburg.

This is the main reason why government bond yields edged higher this week despite the likely rate cuts. Bond markets are already looking beyond these moves and waiting for tighter monetary policy to be introduced. Editorial Comment, Page 22 Capital markets, Page 34 www.ft.com/markets

London Edition 1. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | npag : Page-One Story   REeecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | weurz : Western Europe   IPCLondon Edition 1 | FRONT PAGE - COMPANIES &MARKETS | Economic Indicators | Economic News | Interest Rates | European Central Bank | Federal Reserve USA | United States of America | Americas | North America | Pacific Rim   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument ftft000020021106dyb600096  



 HDDollar little moved by Fed rate cut.   BYBy CHRISTOPHER SWANN IN LONDON.    WC684 words   PD6 November 2002   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2002 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPForeign exchange traders gave a muted response to the 50-basis point interest rate cut by the US Federal Reserve on Wednesday.

The euro continued to trade around $0.997. But analysts increasingly believe that aggressive rate cutting by the Fed will eventually take its toll on the dollar.
   TDWith the Federal Reserve's decision out of the way, financial markets turned their attention to this week's monetary policy announcements from the European Central Bank and the Bank of England. The ECB is expected to leave rates unchanged at 3.25 per cent, despite further evidence of weak growth on Wednesday from German industrial production figures. But analysts expect that to lower borrowing costs soon in response to the deteriorating outlook for global growth.

The Bank of England decision, analysts said, was too close to call. But a cut in UK rates is considered more likely than a cut in eurozone rates. In the lull ahead of the Fed decision on Wednesday, analysts devoted most of their time to evaluating the implications of the US mid-term elections.

With the Republican party regaining the Senate, most were assuming that it would now be easier for the administration to push for further tax cuts if the economy weakens further.

Ray Attrill, director of research at the economic consultancy 4Cast, said that while President George W. Bush would not have a carte blanche, it would make fiscal easing more likely.

"The Democrats can still attempt to frustrate legislation through fillibuster - a technique that would not have been available if the Republicans had won more than 60 seats," he said. "But on the margin this is being seen as increasing the chances of further fiscal stimulus next year."

Their result gave a slight boost to the dollar, which pushed back above parity with the euro, and a modest hit to bonds.

David Bloom, currency strategist at HSBC, said the result would increase the incentive for US investors to diversify more into European bonds.

"An investor should ask themselves how likely it is for the German government to seek to reflate the economy using fiscal policy," he said. "The answer is that it is much less likely than the US seeking to employ further fiscal stimulus."

Analysts also said that with the elections out of the way, the administration may bring the conflict with Iraq back to the forefront of the agenda.

"There is a sense that the administration did not want to push ahead with Iraq until after the election," said Michael Lewis, senior currency strategist at Deutsche Bank in London. Economists continue to debate the impact of a war with Iraq on the world economy. Many fear that a conflict would be the straw that breaks the camel's back, pushing a vulnerable US economy back into recession. "Business confidence in the US, eurozone and Japan has been falling," said Mr Lewis. "An invasion would come at a sensitive time for the world economy."

The European Central Bank has had a troubled relationship with financial markets since the creation of the euro.

Analysts have long argued that the ECB is less transparent than the Federal Reserve or the Bank of England - a claim hotly disputed by the ECB.

A recent study by the International Monetary Fund appears to back up the complaints levied by currency analysts. The report concluded that EONIA - overnight interest rates - had failed to anticipate fully any of the five cuts in interest rates made by the ECB. The report also said that the ECB had been less active than the authorities in the US or UK. "The ECB prides itself on being less active than the other central banks," Mr Attrill said. "But they will not welcome indications that they are less transparent."

He added that although the market was not expecting a rate cut from this week's ECB meeting, it remained a possibility.

"Four out of the five ECB rate cuts were preceded by a neutral monthly bulletin and so it cannot be totally dismissed," he said. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPCEconomic Indicators | Economic News | Interest Rates | Federal Reserve USA | United States of America | Americas | North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument ftcom00020021107dyb60002n  



 HDFed stuns markets with 50-point rate cut.   BYBy PERONET DESPEIGNES IN WASHINGTON.    WC476 words   PD6 November 2002   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2002 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPThe Federal Reserve cut its target for short-term interest rates by half a percentage point to a new 40-year low of 1.25 per cent, in a bid to support the flagging US economy. It was the first Fed cut on interest rates in nearly a year.

The Fed's decision followed several weeks of reports of declines in sales, production, employment and consumer confidence as well as indications that US businesses, which had shifted decisively toward expansion earlier this year, were again pulling back on hiring and investing. Its decision also came amid signs that the stimulus of easy credit that has held the economy up for much of the past year has begun to wane, with car sales and home mortgage activity sagging.
   TDFutures markets had fully priced in another cut, but the move was by no means certain. Economists disagreed on whether it was needed and what it would accomplish.

Some argued that the economy needed another rate cut as insurance against future shocks and a confidence boost. Analysts fear the US faces the threat that debt-heavy consumers will join debt-heavy businesses in a potentially deflationary retrenchment leading to a vicious cycle of falling purchases, prices, profits and payrolls and worsening debt.

Others argued that the Fed had done enough it slashed short-term rates from a nine-year high of 6.5 per cent to a 40-year low of 1.75 per cent last year and that forces holding back the economy were temporary and beyond the central bank's purview. Critics against a rate cut also argued that inducing debt-heavy consumers to borrow more would make matters worse over the long run. Others contended the central bank should conserve its ammunition for a real crisis and avoid unnecessarily stoking the perception that it has panicked. Another consideration likely to weigh against future rate cuts is the possibility of another round of tax cuts from a Republican-dominated Congress.

Meanwhile, investors, who have a direct and immediate stake in being right about the future before most others are, have been betting heavily that much of the worst is over.

The Fed cut the so-called "fed funds rate", the interest rate at which banks lend reserves to each other overnight.

US stock prices have risen sharply over the past month, with investors apparently extending bets that much of the grim economic data of late is outdated, that a Republican takeover of Congress will lead to more business-friendly legislation and that a revived recovery may be around the corner. Despite drops in other indicators, income has grown persistently and profits have rebounded, bolstered by surprisingly strong growth in labour productivity. That has kept a safety net under consumer spending and bolstered equity prices. 
   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REeecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | weurz : Western Europe   IPCCompany News | Economic Indicators | Economic News | General News | Interest Rates | Marketing | Mortgages &Mortgage Rates | Sales | Federal Reserve USA | United States of America | Americas | North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument ftcom00020021107dyb600019  



 HD Manufacturing In U.S. Remains A Weak Sector --- Factory Orders Fell 2.3% In September; Wall Street Anticipates Fed Rate Cut    BY By Patrick Barta    WC530 words   PD5 November 2002   SNThe Asian Wall Street Journal   SCAWSJ   PGA1   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 2002, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP NEW YORK -- Signs of a weakening manufacturing sector in the U.S. continued to abound, as orders for factory goods fell. 

 The U.S. Commerce Department said factory orders fell 2.3% in September to $318.1 billion, following a 0.4% decline in August. Orders for durable goods meant to last more than three years fell 4.9%, while orders for nondurable goods rose 0.9%. The durable-goods component had earlier been reported as a 5.9% decline. 
   TD The most recent data from the U.S. manufacturing sector came on of top reports last week of weaker-than-expected growth in gross domestic product and employment. 

 The steady flow of disappointing news from the U.S. and important overseas economies has helped increase Wall Street expectations that the U.S. Federal Reserve will lower interest rates this week to encourage demand. 

 Financial markets increasingly anticipate a cut in U.S. interest rates when the Federal Open Market Committee meets Wednesday. A Dow Jones/CNBC survey conducted Friday found that 15 of 22 primary financial traders believe the U.S. Federal Reserve will cut its overnight target interest rate by a quarter percentage point to 1.5%. 

 With growth also slowing in Europe, economists are watching for similar interest-rate reductions at the European Central Bank and the Bank of England, which will review their policies on Thursday. 

 Although the orders data wasn't as bad as some economists had feared, the small upward revision to the durable-goods data and the slight uptick in nondurable goods orders weren't enough to counter the rising gloom that surrounds the manufacturing sector. Last week, the Institute for Supply Management said its purchasing management index fell to 48.5 in October from 49.5 in September. A level below 50 indicates manufacturing is contracting. "Whatever momentum the manufacturing sector built up in the first half of the year has just completely dissipated in the summer and fall," said Steven Wood, chief economist at FinancialOxygen, a Walnut Creek, Calif., financial-services firm. "It doesn't look like anybody wants new stuff." 

 That includes companies, whose expenditures on capital goods continued to decline in the latest factory goods report. Nondefense capital-goods orders excluding aircraft -- a proxy for business spending -- were down 4.3%. Ken Matheny, a senior economist at Macroeconomic Advisers in St. Louis, said his firm is expecting business investment on equipment and software to decline in the fourth quarter after increasing in the third quarter. 

 Separately, an outplacement firm that tracks layoff announcements said job cuts soared in October, increasing 151% over the previous month. The firm, Challenger, Gray & Christmas, said announced job cuts totaled 176,010, compared with 70,057 in September. 

 Although the report is an anecdotal, nonstatistical tally of announcements reported in media outlets, it is consistent with other reports that job losses continue to pile up. On Friday, the U.S. government said the economy trimmed 5,000 jobs in October and the unemployment rose to 5.7% from 5.6%. 
   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1114 : Factory Orders/Durable Goods | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gjob : Labor Issues | ncat : Content Types | npag : Page-One Story   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   ANDocument awsj000020021104dyb50000t  



 HDMarkets see Fed cut as a done deal.   BYBy ALINE VAN DUYN AND DEBORAH HARGREAVES.    WC661 words   PD5 November 2002   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2002 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPThere are always some punters who bet against the market, but most of the money is on just one outcome from Wednesday's interest rate deliberations by the US Federal Reserve: a quarter-point cut.

The already low US rate of 1.75 per cent will fall to 1.50 per cent, according to the futures markets. Then, by January, the Fed will cut rates by another quarter-point.
   TDOn Thursday central bankers in the UK and the eurozone will also decide whether to cut interest rates. The futures markets suggest they will not do so this week, however, but will in December.

Equity markets have already rallied in anticipation of the cuts. Investors are looking for the Fed to take action to stimulate the ailing US economy and they predict the European Central Bank will follow its lead.

In spite of the poor economic outlook in the US, the Dow Jones Industrial Average staged its best monthly performance for 15 years in October, rising 10.6 per cent. European and UK markets have been bolstered by Wall Street's strength. From their closes on Friday October 25, the Dow is up 2.8 per cent, the S&P 500 2 per cent and the FTSE 100 2.3 per cent.

"People have been keyed up by the Fed hinting publicly that it is thinking of cutting," says Ian Harwood, global head of economics and strategy at Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein. "But they will be disappointed if the ECB doesn't follow suit."

Michael Hughes, chief investment officer at Baring Asset Management, argues that a rate cut by the ECB is crucial, but the US could get away without a reduction.

"The situation in the US could be turning more than people think and if the absence of a cut was presented in the right way, the market would not take it badly."

But if the ECB does not move to stimulate demand, he believes this will have a negative impact on European stock markets. "Domestic demand in Europe, particularly Germany, has deteriorated, whereas in the US it might be slightly more positive than people expect."

The way the interest rate futures market works means that the timing of US cuts can be predicted more accurately than those in the UK and eurozone.

The Fed funds future is a monthly futures contract. The November future is pricing in rates of 1.5 per cent, the December contract 1.4 per cent and January, 1.3 per cent.

In Europe, three-month contracts are used, meaning that the timing cannot be pinpointed as precisely and that the implied rates are not completely in line with official interest rates, which represent overnight borrowing costs.

In the UK, December short sterling futures are pricing in three-month rates of 3.8 per cent in December, roughly in line with a repo rate of 3.75 per cent, a quarter-point lower than the current 4 per cent. No more cuts are expected by futures markets after that.

In the eurozone, two cuts are priced in. In December, Euribor futures are pricing in three-month rates of 3.02 per cent, in line with a quarter-point cut in the current 3.25 per cent repo rate.

However, another indication from the futures market is that low interest rates are not expected to last. By this time next year, the US and Europe are expected to raise interest rates again.

"The markets are saying that monetary policy works, and that central banks will have to start putting rates up again by this time next year," says Ian Douglas, global fixed income strategist at UBS Warburg.

This is the main reason why government bond yields edged higher this week despite the likely rate cuts. Bond markets are already looking beyond these moves and waiting for tighter monetary policy to be introduced. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPCEconomic Indicators | Economic News | Interest Rates | Market News | Market Reports | Federal Reserve USA | United States of America | Americas | North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument ftcom00020021106dyb50007l  
 Page 1 of 1      2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.


 

 Page 1      2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.

