 


 HD U.S. business spending eludes U.S. recovery.    BY By Andrea Hopkins    WC593 words   PD26 June 2003   ET22:33   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2003 Reuters Limited
   LP WASHINGTON, June 26 (Reuters) - U.S. interest rates stand at 45-year lows, the stock market is rallying and business profits are improving. But the reluctance of corporate America to invest despite all this bounty has many economists worried. 

 "To be honest with you, I think most people - including ourselves - are a little surprised we haven't seen a more robust business expenditure picture by now," said Rick Egelton, deputy chief economist at Bank of Montreal/Harris Bank. 
   TD Amid all the head-scratching about the sputtering U.S. economy, focus keeps returning to one elusive engine of growth: the willingness of businesses to buy new equipment, expand their plants or hire workers. 

 Consumer spending and the hot housing market have dragged the U.S. economy from the depths of the 2001 recession. But with unemployment at 9-year highs and consumer confidence shaky, that may not last forever and economists would like to see businesses carry the baton. 

 "It's really the key component in terms of engendering a rebound in the economy and getting stronger growth next year," said Egelton. 

 All the pieces appear in place for corporate spending to shake off the sorrows of the last two years - better stock prices, profits and a weaker dollar to help U.S. goods compete overseas. Moreover, the Federal Reserve has cut interest rates to 1 percent, making it cheap for businesses to borrow and tax cuts promise another shot in the arm for consumer spending. 

 But something is missing. 

 "The big uncertainty is Keynes' famous 'animal spirits' - when is it that businesses will start feeling more upbeat for whatever reason," said Rory Robertson, interest-rate strategist at Macquarie Bank in New York. 

 ANIMAL SPIRITS 

 Robertson said that, while consumer spending has held up, that strength is not all good. Since households never stopped buying homes and cars, there is little pent-up demand to boost future sales. 

 The investment excesses of the 1990s also left a legacy of industrial overcapacity that has yet to be absorbed. 

 "Right now businesses are feeling weak demand, and what's more, they're not very upbeat about the future. So they've put productivity improvements in place and they're able to satisfy that weak demand with current capital stock and with their current workforce," Robertson said. 

 "I just worry that this long, drawn-out, sluggish growth story is going to be around for quite a while longer." 

 Revised estimates released Thursday showed the economy grew at an anemic 1.4 percent pace in the first quarter, slower than originally thought. 

 While the data is outdated and marred by the Iraq war, it highlighted the difficulties facing corporations still struggling to recover from the recession. 

 "It brings attention to the daunting macroeconomic environment faced by companies as they attempt to strengthen their financial conditions," said John Lonski, chief economist at Moody's Investors Service in New York. 

 "The process of balance sheet repair for now is not getting much help from the external environment." 

 With only a few days left in the second quarter and no concrete signs a turnaround is underway, most economists have turned to the future, forecasting growth of up to 3 percent to 3.5 percent in the second half of the year. 

 Once that happens, some believe, corporate America will not be far behind. 

 "Once business people are reasonably convinced that the rebound is entrenched, then I think you will see those capital spending plans be put in place," Egelton said. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPCN2K:BUS | N2K:D | N2K:DNP | N2K:E | N2K:INT | N2K:M | N2K:MCE | N2K:RNP | N2K:U | N2K:US   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument lba0000020030626dz6q010qa  



 HD UPDATE 1-Manila c.bank says U.S. cut gives it flexibility.    WC257 words   PD26 June 2003   ET02:19   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2003 Reuters Limited
   LP (add fresh quotes, details) 

 MANILA, June 26 (Reuters) - Philippine central bank deputy governor Amando Tetangco said on Thursday an interest rate cut by the U.S. Federal Reserve gave his bank more flexibility in steering local monetary policy. 
   TD The Federal Reserve on Wednesday trimmed U.S. interest rates a quarter percentage point to 45-year lows. 

 Money market traders are hoping Philippine monetary authorities will track the move, given the country's tame inflation trend. Philippine consumer prices rose 2.7 percent in the year to May, the lowest 12-month inflation since January. 

 "The Fed action gives us greater room to manoeuvre monetary policy" Tetangco told Reuters. 

 "Any action on our part will have to consider domestic developments. The inflation outlook continues to be benign." 

 Tetangco said the bank's policy-making Monetary Board would assess the impact of policy changes relative to current demand. 

 "We have to take into consideration what's happening on the demand side. I think if you ease but there's no demand for money or credit, then that may just create inflationary pressures. We have to assess that," said Tetangco. 

 The bank would also review the current level of banks' liquidity reserve requirements, he said. 

 The Monetary Board's next policy meeting is due on July 2. 

 The Philippine central bank, the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas, has maintained its overnight borrowing rate at seven percent and the lending rate at 9.25 percent for the last 15 months. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REasiaz : Asia | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | namz : North America | phlns : Philippines | seasiaz : Southeast Asia | usa : United States   IPCN2K:ABZ | N2K:ASIA | N2K:D | N2K:DNP | N2K:E | N2K:EMRG | N2K:M | N2K:PH | N2K:PHD | N2K:RNP   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument lba0000020030626dz6q000gt  



 HDCiting Deflation, Fed Cuts Rates By Quarter Point --- Sluggish Economy Prompts Reduction to 1%, Lowest Funds Target in 45 Years   BYBy Greg Ip    WC1,219 words   PD26 June 2003   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGA1   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 2003, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LPWASHINGTON -- Seeking additional insurance against the menace of deflation, the Federal Reserve cut its key interest-rate target by a quarter of a percentage point to 1%, its lowest since 1958.

The central bank also indicated that the federal funds rate would remain there for a long time, and left the door open to another cut if needed.
   TDIn making the move, its first rate reduction since last November, the Fed said the economy has "yet to exhibit sustainable growth," and it repeated its May 6 assessment that the "minor" risk of an "unwelcome" drop in inflation -- in other words, deflation -- outweighed the risk of inflation.

The cut was less than the half-percentage point that many investors and at least one Fed policy maker wanted. The Fed cited some positives for the economy, including new signs of "a firming in spending, markedly improved financial conditions, and labor and product markets that are stabilizing."

Continuing to tinker with how it communicates -- to the bond market, in particular -- the Fed said that "on balance," the concern of lower inflation was "likely to predominate for the foreseeable future." The change makes more explicit the commitment hinted at in May: that even if the Fed doesn't cut its rate again soon, it will keep it there until the risk of deflation is extinguished, if necessary until long after the economy is growing briskly. "That paragraph now is code for future monetary policy," said Laurence Meyer, a former Fed governor. "How long are [rates] going to be on hold? For the foreseeable future."

By contrast, in previous business cycles, the Fed would usually increase interest rates pre-emptively, long before inflation started rising again.

One of the Fed's priorities yesterday was holding down long-term interest rates. After its May 6 deflation warning, the 10-year Treasury bond yield dropped, falling from 3.92% on May 5 to 3.25% just before the Fed's decision was announced yesterday. That decline brought down mortgage rates, which has underpinned home sales and let existing homeowners borrow against their home values for renovations or other spending. Falling corporate bond yields are also adding to the impetus for a business-investment revival.

Thus, by cutting by a quarter instead of half a percentage point, the Fed took the risk that disappointed investors would push up bond yields. Indeed, the 10-year Treasury bond price fell and the yield jumped to 3.36% after the announcement. The Dow Jones Industrial Average sank 98.32 points, or 1%, to 9011.53. Still, the lower funds rate should reduce short-term consumer rates such as on home-equity loans linked to the prime rate, although as of yesterday most banks kept the prime rate at 4.25%.

A half-point cut might ultimately have been a bigger gamble. Fed officials realize that for practical reasons, they would rather not cut the funds rate -- charged on overnight loans between banks -- to absolute zero. Even at a funds rate of 0.75%, the yields on many money-market mutual funds can't cover the funds' expenses. Below 0.25%, the market for Treasury bills, eurodollars and other short-term IOUs would function less smoothly.

For these reasons, a move to 0.75% may have been interpreted as the last or next to last cut, which could eventually have put upward pressure on bond yields. With yesterday's move, the Fed shows that it has both the room and the will to cut again if needed.

The Fed also said, as it did May 6, that upside and downside risks to economic growth in the next few quarters were roughly equal. "A slightly more expansive monetary policy [will] add further support for an economy which [should] improve over time," it said.

Cutting by a quarter point also puts off the day that the Fed may have to employ "unconventional" monetary policy tools, such as buying long-term bonds to nudge down long-term interest rates. Paul McCulley, an economist and fund manager at Pacific Investment Management Co., blamed yesterday's bond selloff in part on the realization that the Fed won't be buying bonds soon.

Fed officials increasingly believe their biggest influence over long-term interest rates is communicating where short-term rates are likely to be anywhere from six months to 10 years from now. In a study released last week, co-author Donald Kohn, a Fed governor, said "shaping accurate expectations about the economy and policy inclination" could be especially important when the federal funds rate is near zero and the central bank is concerned about sluggish spending.

Still, the debate over whether to cut a quarter or half was likely an active one, reflecting a compromise between Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan, possibly the most optimistic of the Fed's 19 policy makers (12 of whom vote), and more numerous pessimists, many of whom wanted to cut rates months ago. Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco President Robert Parry dissented in yesterday's decision, preferring a half-point cut.

One area of debate is over why the economy, which has shed 289,000 jobs since January, is so soft. Mr. Greenspan has argued that growth stalled in March and April because of worries over the war in Iraq and high energy prices and that it would restart as those factors faded. Others felt more fundamental problems -- the continued unwinding of 1990s excess -- were to blame and wanted to cut rates sooner. In recent weeks, some evidence that Mr. Greenspan was right has begun to accumulate as businesses report improving order books. But the evidence is tenuous and even Mr. Greenspan has cast doubt on Wall Street's generally bullish forecasts for growth later this year.

Another area of debate is the risk of deflation, or generally falling prices. Deflation is dangerous because falling prices make it hard for companies to repay debts, and may lead to falling wages, which squeeze indebted households.

While the Fed can raise interest rates as high as it wants to fight inflation, it can't cut them below zero to fight deflation. Japan has held interest rates near 0% for several years in a futile attempt to end deflation. Since last fall, the U.S. inflation rate, excluding volatile food and energy prices, has dropped to just over 1%, after fluctuating between 2% and 3% for seven years. Mr. Greenspan said earlier this month that the serious consequences of deflation required a wide "firebreak" against it and that the Fed would "lean over backwards" to prevent it, raising expectations he would push for a rate cut to fend off any threat of deflation.

Mr. Parry in particular has been vocal in warning against letting inflation fall too far. But last week the Labor Department reported that inflation, excluding energy, ticked up in May, and some economists say the dollar's steep fall this year has also reduced the risk of deflation.

The Fed also cut its more symbolic discount rate, charged on the Fed's short-term loans to banks with a sudden need for cash, to 2% from 2.25%. 

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1122 : Mortgage Applications/Refinancing | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | gvexe : Executive Branch | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | m131 : Money Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | npag : Page-One Story   REeecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | fin : Finland | namz : North America | nordz : Nordic Countries | usa : United States | weurz : Western Europe   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument j000000020030626dz6q0002q  



 CLMCredit Markets   HDTreasury Prices Tumble on Fed News --- Traders Interpret Action To Mean More Rate Cuts Are Less Likely to Occur   BYBy Aaron Lucchetti    WC894 words   PD26 June 2003   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGC15   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 2003, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LPTreasurys sold off sharply after the Federal Reserve delivered a modest interest-rate cut and said while the economy remains sluggish, it had noted some whiffs of improvement.

Traders interpreted the Fed's quarter-point cut and the accompanying Fed comment to mean that further cuts were less likely. "There's concern that all the Fed easing is done and that this signals the end of the easing cycle," says Jack Malvey, chief global fixed-income strategist at Lehman Brothers. Following the Fed move, a majority of economists at primary dealers said they didn't expect another Fed move until 2004, according to a CNBC-Dow Jones Newswires survey.
   TDThat view contrasts with what many bond investors thought as recently as late Tuesday, when chatter of a possible half-point cut persisted. Such a steep move would have raised the possibility of more radical Fed action, such as purchasing longer-term Treasurys to keep yields low. A quarter-point move reduces the possibility of such maneuvers for now.

In late-afternoon trading, the benchmark 10-year note fell 1 2/32, or $10.63 per $1,000 in face value. The yield, which moves inversely to the price finished at 3.38%, up from 3.256% Tuesday. The two-year note, which is more sensitive to the Fed's move and which was also pressured by a note auction shortly before the Fed announcement, fell 10/32, or $3.13 per $1,000 face value, to 99 31/32, and the yield rose to 1.268%.

"The market was disappointed," said David Ging, Treasury market strategist at Credit Suisse First Boston. Even those expecting a quarter-point cut instead of the more-aggressive half-point cut believed that the Fed's statement "would be friendlier" to bond bulls who yearn for grim economic tidings.

Though market players argued that more cuts had become less likely, the Fed statement itself seemed to leave the door for more cuts well open.

The muted statement didn't deter economists from arguing that the Fed's 13th rate cut in more than two years would be its last.

"I don't think we'll need any more rate cuts," says David Resler, chief economist at Nomura Securities in New York. If the economy picks up, as Mr. Resler predicts, the Fed won't need to cut again. If signs of weakness or declining prices predominate, the Fed has some "powder" left over because it didn't make the larger half-point cut yesterday.

Jim Cusser, a portfolio manager at Waddell &Reed, sold some intermediate-term Treasurys after the Fed announcement. He said he expected heavy Treasury selling from investors who had been hoping for a stronger half-point cut in the federal-funds rate, or the rate that the Fed charges for overnight bank loans.

While the Fed's announcement brings that rate from 1.25% to 1%, a 45-year low, some were hoping for a bolder statement of a half-point cut to 0.75%.

To be sure, the Fed gave some indication that it was still vigilant about combating deflation, a condition of falling prices that at various points have been very harmful economically. While not mentioning the word "deflation" in its statement, the Fed said "the probability, though minor, of an unwelcome substantial fall in inflation exceeds that of a pickup in inflation from its already low level." That concern, the Fed concluded "is likely to predominate for the forseeable future."

That last line left some taking comfort that interest rates wouldn't rise soon. James Glassman, J.P. Morgan Chase economist, for example said that bonds might be stuck in a trading range for a while. But they will "sell off in a sustained way on economic strength," headded.

Corporate and Junk Bonds

Strong investor interest in planned debt sales by General Motors Corp. and General Motors Acceptance Corp. enabled underwriters to trim yield margins for the securities, which are expected to be priced today. Including a $3.5 billion convertible bond portion, the deal is expected to total more than $15 billion, which would make it the second-largest corporate-bond offering ever after a $16.4 billion deal by France Telecom in 2001, says Thomson Financial.

By early yesterday, orders totaled $19 billion for GM's dollar-denominated securities, people familiar with it said. "Because demand was as strong as it was and secondary spreads have hung in well, GM was able to ratchet in price talk without jeopardizing the success of the deal," said Sid Bakst, portfolio manager at Weiss Peck &Greer. 


                    AUCTION RESULTS
  Here are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of two-year
notes. All bids are awarded at a single price at the market-clearing
yield. Rates are determined by the difference between that price and
the face value.
Applications ............................. $46,079,278,000
Accepted bids ............................ $25,000,038,000
Bids at market-clearing yield accepted ...          88.71%
Accepted noncompetitively ................    $839,378,000
" foreign noncompetitively ...............              $0
Auction price (Rate) .....................  99.894 (1.179%)
Interest rate ............................          1.125%
Cusip number .............................       912828BC3
  The notes are dated June 30, 2003 and mature June 30, 2005.


License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   COgnmoc : General Motors Company   INi351 : Motor Vehicles | i35101 : Passenger Cars | iaut : Automobiles   NSc17 : Funding/Capital | c172 : Corporate Debt Instruments | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | gvexe : Executive Branch | gvtre : Treasury Department | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | m131 : Money Markets | m15 : Derivative Securities | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | mntdbt : National Government Debt/Bond Markets   REnamz : North America | usa : United States | usc : Midwest U.S. | usmi : Michigan   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument j000000020030626dz6q0001w  



 HDMoney Funds Face Expense Squeeze to Keep $1 Share Value   BYBy Karen Damato    WC1,021 words   PD26 June 2003   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGC1   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 2003, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LPTHE FEDERAL RESERVE'S latest interest-rate cut ratchets up the pressure on some mutual-fund companies to waive fees or take other actions to keep the share price of some of their money-market mutual funds from dropping below $1, the stable share value those funds strive to maintain.

But the fact that the Fed cut by a quarter point -- and not the half point that some market watchers had anticipated -- "is good for money-market-fund investors as well as for anyone who is involved in the money-market-fund business," says Colleen Denzler, a vice president and senior portfolio manager at fund group American Century Investments in Kansas City, Mo.
   TDThe smaller cut means that investors won't see quite as big a drop in their money-fund yields as they might have, and the fund companies won't face quite as steep a bill to keep their money-fund returns in positive territory. The average taxable money fund yielded just 0.64% as of Tuesday, an all-time low, according to iMoneyNet Inc., a money-fund research firm in Westborough, Mass.

The hallmark $1 share price of money funds is one of the fund industry's most significant innovations, but also one that lately has caught some fund operators in a bind: With interest rates lower than at any time since money funds were first created in the early 1970s, some money funds aren't collecting enough income from their holdings of commercial paper and other short-term investments to cover their operating costs. As a result, fund-management companies have responded by cutting their normal fees on those funds in order to keep the share prices from sliding below $1.

Even after the Fed action, money-fund investors have little reason to worry about their money funds dropping below $1 in price, or "breaking the buck" in industry jargon. Fund-company officials routinely say they feel a moral obligation -- and it's also in their self-interest -- to maintain the $1 price. If a money fund broke the buck, "your clients would be gone in a thrice. . . . They would say, `I thought this was safe, but it isn't,' " says John Bogle, founder of Vanguard Group.

Others in the industry agree. "We would do anything we could to avoid breaking the buck," says Elizabeth Krauss, a managing director at State Street Research &Management Co. Indeed, that firm is already losing money on three small classes of shares in its State Street Research Money Market Fund, because the management firm is paying more to reimburse expenses for certain share classes of the fund than it is collecting in portfolio management fees for those shares.

The latest rate reduction "ups the ante" for fund firms in this position, Ms. Krauss says, "but we stand by our commitment to shareholders" -- a promise by State Street Research that it will keep the fund's yield at no less than 0.10%.

To some degree, the fund industry can blame itself for the current bind: The stable $1 share price wasn't standard for all money funds when they first appeared in the 1970s. And it still isn't a requirement. "It's not unlawful to break the dollar," says Robert Plaze, an associate director in the Securities and Exchange Commission's Division of Investment Management, which oversees money funds.

But the stable $1 share price has helped to draw a total of more than $2 trillion in individual and institutional cash into money funds, which account for one-third of the fund industry's $6.5 trillion in total assets. Since individuals look at money funds as bank alternatives, the unchanging $1 value is "what people wanted and that is what they expected," says William E. Donoghue, who in the 1970s and 1980s wrote a newsletter and then a top-selling book about money funds.

The fund industry has gone to great lengths over the years to build confidence in that unchanging price, with fund-management companies repeatedly bailing out their money funds when the $1 price was threatened by fund holdings that defaulted or tumbled in price. That happened in 1994 when some derivative securities went bad and again in 1997 when Mercury Finance defaulted on commercial paper held by some money funds.

Indeed, it appears that there has been only one instance to date in which a money fund -- and a small, institutional one, at that -- actually did break the buck. Community Bankers U.S. Government Money-Market Fund was tripped up by derivatives holdings in 1994 and quickly shut down. The fund, with $82 million in assets, paid investors 94 cents on the dollar at liquidation.

While several large asset-management firms are waiving fees to keep one or more of their money-fund share classes in positive-return territory, money funds holding most of the industry's assets aren't yet caught in the current expense squeeze. Only about 3% of money-fund industry assets currently yield 0.25% or less, the yield level at which new or increased fee waivers will be required in light of the latest Fed rate cut, notes Avi Nachmany, director of research at Strategic Insight in New York.

Analysts generally don't expect the quarter-point cut to reduce earnings at publicly held asset-management firms, although a half-point cut probably would have done so. (About 15% of money-fund assets currently yield 0.50% or less, another indication of the bigger sting that a larger Fed cut would have meant.)

Further, fund investors and observers probably shouldn't shed too many tears for the mutual-fund companies. While running a money fund may be at best a break-even proposition for some smaller fund firms, the money-fund business "is a great business for the players who have a large presence there" and which can thus run a large pool of money with a related small staff, says Ken Worthington, an analyst for CIBC World Markets. 

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles | i8150211 : Unit Trusts/Mutual Funds | i831 : Financial Investments | i83107 : Portfolio/Fund/Asset Management | ibnk : Banking/Credit | iinv : Investing/Securities   NSccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpersf : Personal Finance | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | gvexe : Executive Branch | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | m131 : Money Markets | m16 : Fund Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument j000000020030626dz6q00006  



 HDEquities disappointed by Fed rate decision - GLOBAL OVERVIEW.   BYBy VINCE HEANEY.    WC393 words   PD26 June 2003   SNFinancial Times   SCFTFT   PG44   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2003 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPUS equity markets eased lower yesterday immediately after the Federal Reserve delivered its widely expected 25 basis point interest rate cut, taking the Fed Funds rate to 1 per cent.

Interest rate futures markets had priced in a cut of between 25 and 50 basis points ahead of the meeting, but the decision to maintain a bias towards further monetary easing partly offset disappointment that the Fed had not opted for a larger reduction.
   TDUS treasury prices fell in the wake of the rate cut despite the dovish tone of the accompanying statement, which left the impression that the Fed would keep policy accommodative for the foreseeable future.

The S&P 500 was 5.6 points higher at 989.08 in late-afternoon trade.

The yield on 10-year US treasuries was 3.33 per cent, compared to Tuesday's closing yield of 3.25 per cent. The dollar, which had strengthened against the euro over the previous seven sessions after matching the year's low at $1.1930, rose after the Fed announcement, to trade at $1.1550. European equity markets were expected to follow Wall Street's lead today, but had already edged higher yesterday in anticipation of the Fed delivering an interest rate stimulus.

The FTSE Eurotop 300 closed up 0.3 per cent at 860.

Yesterday's gains ended two straight sessions of profit taking as corporate warnings on both sides of the Atlantic and a sense that a US rate reduction was already priced in undermined investors belief in the sustainability of the equity rally.

"It's not that the recent data have pointed to a need for a 50 basis point rate cut, but the direction given by the Fed on policy has been so aggressive of late that it is consistent with the view that they should be cutting by 50 basis points," said Peter Oppenheimer, strategist with Goldman Sachs.

Meanwhile, Brent Crude futures for August delivery surged $1.08 a barrel to $27.70 after weekly US inventory data showed a surprise drop in oil stocks, which have been slowly climbing off February's 26-year lows.

Gold, which has suffered from liquidation of long positions in recent days, recovered slightly to trade at $349.35 per troy ounce yesterday.

London Edition 1. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPCLondon Edition 1 | FT MARKETS | Equities | Market News | Market Reports | Markets | United States of America | Americas | North America | Pacific Rim   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument ftft000020030626dz6q00056  



 HDFed learns Japanese lessons on deflation THREAT TO US ECONOMY.   BYBy ALAN BEATTIE.    WC699 words   PD26 June 2003   SNFinancial Times   SCFTFT   PG9   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2003 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPWhen the Federal Reserve prepared a study early last year discussing what might have been done to prevent deflation taking hold in Japan, most economists regarded it as little more than an abstract intellectual exercise.

The US economy had recovered from one of the shortest and shallowest recessions in memory, had weathered the shock of the September 11 2001 attacks and looked set to resume the productivity-fuelled growth of the late 1990s. But as the economy stuttered and stalled throughout last year, and the gap between its potential and actual output expanded, realisation grew that the lessons from Japan might be of more than academic interest.
   TDToday's interest rate decision marks another stage in that learning process.

"There is no great mystery about why they have become so concerned," says Michael Andrews, director of US economic research at West LB. "They have been consistently too high in their forecast for growth and they have been surprised on the downside by inflation. This is the worst recovery we have had since World War Two."

The sanguine tendency in the Fed, centred on Alan Greenspan, chairman, can point to a series of one-off events that excuse their over-optimism: the falls in equity prices last summer; the panic over corporate wrongdoing that drove up the cost of borrowing for many companies; the war with Iraq.

With those obstacles removed, that optimism is still largely intact, at least in public. What has changed is a growing awareness of the risks if the forecast of a return to trend growth turns out to be misplaced and inflationary pressure continues to wane.

As late as November, when the Fed cut rates by half a point, it portrayed the move as a one-off insurance policy to get the economy through a "soft patch". Since then it has introduced a marked shift in its policymaking: signalling a commitment to keep interest rates low for as long as it takes until the danger from falling inflation is expunged.

Learning from the lesson of Japan, which, with the benefit of hindsight, cut interest rates too little and too late after its own asset price bubble collapsed at the end of the 1990s, the Fed has made a big public display of its commitment to pre-emptive moves in interest rates. In one sense this aggression is a fairly familiar tactic: from January 2001, the Fed cut interest rates by a total of 4.75 percentage points in less than a year in response to the collapse of the equity bubble and the September 11 attacks, before deflation as such was even on the radar as a policy issue.

It has now turned those tactics against its latest foe, with the added incentive that deflation might require even more pre-emptive action. One of the uncomfortable conclusions of its study of Japan was that the Bank of Japan was acting more or less as other central banks might have done faced with a similar problem, given the dominant thinking among economists at the time. Only after deflation took hold did it emerge that faster and more aggressive rate cuts would have been appropriate.

But as a sustainable and comforting policy, it is easier to cut interest rates rapidly and substantially from a high level than it is to do the same when zero comes closer.

The debate has continued to rage within the Fed about just how low it can take rates without jamming up the functioning of financial markets, particularly the money market funds that rely on an overnight interest rate to make a profit. Another lesson from Japan suggests that taking rates right down to zero from an already low level such as 0.5 per cent might cause more problems than it solves, with the introduction of frictions in financial markets outweighing the added benefits of yet cheaper money.

The Fed continues to face those problem after today's decision. If growth does not pick up smartly in the second half, such concerns will become an ever more important part of its already fevered internal debate.

London Edition 1. 
   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REeecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | weurz : Western Europe   IPCLondon Edition 1 | THE AMERICAS | Economic Indicators | Economic News | Inflation | Interest Rates | Federal Reserve USA | United States of America | Americas | North America | Pacific Rim   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument ftft000020030626dz6q0001o  



 HD How Fed's Rate Cut Will Affect Economy    BY By EILEEN ALT POWELL    CRAP Business Writer   WC646 words   PD26 June 2003   SNAP Online   SCASP   LAEnglish   CY Copyright 2003 The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved. 
   LP NEW YORK (AP) - The Federal Reserve's decision Wednesday to cut a key interest rate to just 1 percent - the lowest level in 45 years - is intended to help the economy by reducing the cost of borrowing for both consumers and businesses. But savers will find it even harder to get decent returns on their money, and the option for future cuts shrinks as rates get close to zero. 

 Some questions and answers about the Fed rate cut: 
   TD Q: How much more can the Fed cut interest rates? 

 A: Not more than another half of a percentage point, said Sung Won Sohn, chief economist for Wells Fargo & Co. 

 "They don't want to be in a position where they have no option if the economy stumbles," Sohn said. "If the federal funds rate - cut on Wednesday to 1 percent - was to go to zero, the market would say, 'We have an emperor with no clothes.' And the Fed doesn't want that." 

 Q: So what will the Federal Open Market Committee do next? 

 A: "They will probably use a lot more open mouth policy," Sohn said. "They'll try to jawbone market expectations as opposed to simply cutting interest rates down to zero." 

 Q: How will the latest rate cut affect the economy? 

 A: The stock market has improved and interest rates have softened in recent weeks in anticipation of the Fed action, economists said. 

 David H. Resler, chief economist at Nomura Securities, said the Fed's move Wednesday "will ensure that the gains from the rate declines we've seen over the last month have an opportunity to filter into the economy." 

 In addition, the Fed is making it clear that it will maintain an expansive monetary policy as it keeps watch against deflationary pressures, he noted. 

 "That's an important message for the markets to hear," Resler said. "Just a year ago, the Fed sent a signal to the marketplace that it was ready to tighten, even though there wasn't a clear case to be made that the recovery was firmly in train. I think the Fed learned a lesson." 

 Q: Could lower rates actually hurt the economy at some point? 

 A: Both Sohn and Resler said there was concern that mutual funds could get squeezed. 

 "There's a point where the absolute level of rates is so low, and the investment opportunities for the (fund) managers so limited in their potential return, that they're not earning enough to cover their costs," Resler said. 

 Sohn added that a federal funds rate of 0.5 percent would set off "a significant outflow of money" from money market mutual funds. That, in turn, would hurt corporations and small businesses that want to sell commercial paper to finance short-term needs, because money market funds are primary purchasers of these instruments. 

 Q: What does the Fed's latest move mean to consumers? 

 A: The Fed obviously wants consumers to keep spending, and low interest rates both discourage saving and encourage borrowing for things like homes and cars. 

 In addition, the Fed also is signaling that it wants investors back in the stock market, said Paul Kochis, Philadelphia regional president for Mellon Private Wealth Management. 

 "The rate cut is evidence that there is a price to pay for investors staying on the sideline," he said. "With rates on money markets at a 40-year low, if you stay on the sidelines with cash, it's going to be painful." 

 The alternatives, Kochis said, include paying down high-interest debt or getting into the equity markets. 

 "It's also good news for taxpayers," he added. "The rate cut provides marginal help in financing the deficits at the state, local and federal levels. That's positive." 
   RFAP-Fed-Q&A; D7RT7LM80   COnwbc : Wells Fargo & Company   INi814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | m131 : Money Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States | use : Northeast U.S. | usny : New York   IPC1310   IPDFinancial/Business | General Financial/Business News   ANDocument asp0000020030626dz6q0040h  



 HD If economy stays course    WC154 words   PD26 June 2003   ET13:38   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY Copyright 2003.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved. 
   LP WASHINGTON (AP) - The Federal Reserve's first short-term interest rate cut of this year could turn out to be its last bracing tonic if the economy's vital signs - which the Fed says already are improving - get even stronger in the coming months. 

 The Fed's main lever for influencing the economy's health - the federal funds rate - was lowered by a quarter percentage point Wednesday to 1 percent, a 45-year low. 
   TD The action marked the first reduction in the funds rate - the interest banks charge each other on overnight loans - since November and the 13th cut since January 2001, when the Fed's credit-easing campaign began. 

 "The committee judged that a slightly more expansive monetary policy would add further support for an economy which it expects to improve over time," Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan and his Federal Open Market Committee colleagues said in a statement. 

 --- 
   RFRush   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States | usdc : Washington DC | use : Northeast U.S.   IPCsldL0502 | sel--dsa | tagpf0wcat   IPDDomestic | AP Alert Wires: Financial/Insurance | If economy stays course | 49a571e748b6ed1ed905d1c124468395   ANDocument aprs000020030626dz6q00izh  



 HD Hong Kong shares lower after US rate cut, fresh US economic worries.    WC516 words   PD26 June 2003   SNAFX Asia   SCAFXASI   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2003, AFX Asia. All rights reserved.
   LP HONG KONG (AFX-ASIA) - Share prices were lower in midmorning trade after the Federal Reserve cut interest rates, on concerns that the US economy has yet to show sustainable growth, dealers said. 

 They said the market was also cautious ahead of the expiry of the Hang Seng June contract tomorrow. 
   TD At 10.56 am, the Hang Seng Index was down 75.42 points, or 0.78 pct, at 9, 553.57, off a high of 9,562.83 and a low of 9,530.65, on trade of 1.814 bln hkd. 

 The Hang Seng June contract was at 9,534 points. 

 The Hang Seng China Enterprise Index was up 7.49 points at 2,731.36 and the CAC Index was down 8.36 points at 1,042.16. 

 The GEM Index was down 2.26 points at 1,049.09 on trade of 26.516 mln hkd. 

 Fulbright Securities general manager Francis Lun said the Federal Reserve's warning over the slow pace of US economic recovery caused investor concern. 

 In cutting the federal funds rate from 1.25 pct to 1.0 pct, the Federal Open Market Committee said the US economy "has yet to exhibit sustainable growth," despite recent signs of improvement. 

 Lun said the interest rate cut will not immediately boost the US economy. In Hong Kong, economic activity is yet to recover from the impact of the SARS outbreak. 

 "The Fed's warning also led to the decline on Wall Street last night," he said. 

 "Market sentiment was also cautious prior to the expiry of the Hang Seng June contract," he said, expecting trade to be even more volatile tomorrow. 

 In the financial sector, HSBC was down 1.0 at 93.25, Bank of East Asia was unchanged at 14.95, and Hang Seng Bank was down 0.50 at 82.50. 

 Among properties, Cheung Kong was 0.30 lower at 46.80, New World Development dropped 0.05 to 2.925 and Sun Hung Kai Properties lost 0.20 to 39. 10. 

 In the telecom sector, China Mobile was down 0.30 at 18.05, China Unicom down 0.10 at 5.15, PCCW down 0.05 at 4.90 and Hutchison Whampoa down 0.30 at 46.80. 

 H shares were relatively stable as they were seen as being insulated from the weak US economy, Lun said. 

 "China stocks will continue to benefit from the strong economic growth on the mainland," he said. 

 CNOOC was up 0.05 at 11.30, Brilliance China was unchanged at 2.125 and PetroChina was up 0.05 at 2.35. 

 China Eastern Airlines was down 0.06 at 1.00 after issuing a profit warning to reflect the impact of the SARS outbreak. 

 Sa Sa International was down 0.02 at 0.93. Yesterday it released its full-year results, which showed net profit was 65.463 mln hkd, a turnaround from a loss of 71.175 mln a year earlier. 

 wilfred.lee@afxasia.com 

 wl/ds/jtz. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m11 : Equity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REasiaz : Asia | china : China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | easiaz : Eastern Asia | hkong : Hong Kong | namz : North America | usa : United States   IPCHK | CN | STK   PUBXinhua Financial Network Limited   ANDocument afxasi0020030630dz6q000rv  



 HD Philippine central bank - US Fed rate cut gives flexibility on monetary policy.    WC253 words   PD26 June 2003   SNAFX Asia   SCAFXASI   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2003, AFX Asia. All rights reserved.
   LP MANILA (AFX-ASIA) - Central bank deputy governor Amado Tetangco Jr said the US Federal Reserve's quarter point interest rate cut has given it greater flexibility in its monetary policy. 

 "Definitely, the US rate cut has given us greater room for maneuvering. Any policy action on the part of the central bank will have to take into consideration local factors such as increase in demand for credit, the foreign exchange and the inflation outlook," Tetangco said in a phone interview. 
   TD He added the central bank has a number of monetary instruments, saying "cutting interest rate is one, while reducing (banks') reserve requirement is another." 

 The next policy meeting of the Monetary Board will be held on July 3. 

 Central bank governor Rafael Buenaventura, prior to the US rate cut, said the market should not expect any "dramatic move" from the Monetary Board. 

 He said the market is "more interested" in what the central bank intends to do with reserve requirements, adding that any decision will depend on loan demand. 

 The central bank has kept its key overnight interest rates stable at 7. 000 pct for borrowing and 9.250 for lending since March 2002, but reintroduced the tier scheme for overnight borrowing early this month. 

 The re-imposition of the tier scheme, considered a de facto rate cut, was aimed at discouraging banks from placing more funds at the central bank's overnight window. 

 afxmanila@afxasia.com 

 cey/mh/skb. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REasiaz : Asia | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | namz : North America | phlns : Philippines | seasiaz : Southeast Asia | usa : United States   IPCPH | CBK | REG | IND   PUBXinhua Financial Network Limited   ANDocument afxasi0020030629dz6q001fc  



 HD Financials hold gains after rate cut - UPDATE 3.    WC373 words   PD26 June 2003   SNAFX Asia   SCAFXASI   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2003, AFX Asia. All rights reserved.
   LP NEW YORK (AFX) - Financial stocks were mostly unchanged at higher levels after the Federal Reserve cut its target for a key overnight interest rate at mid-afternoon Wednesday. The Federal Open Market Committee expressed impatience with the pace of growth but remained optimistic that the U.S. economy would recover fully. "Recent signs point to a firming in spending, markedly improved financial conditions and labor and product markets that are stabilizing," the 12-member committee said in Nonetheless, the economy "has yet to exhibit sustainable growth." The AMEX Securities Broker/Dealer Index stood up 1.8 percent, while the Philadelphia Bank Sector Index was up 0.9 percent. In broader sector action, Goldman Sachs topped analysts' second-quarter consensus estimates on solid bond and currency trading revenue. Goldman also surprised Wall Street by more than doubling its quarterly dividend, raising it to 25 cents from 12 cents. 
   TD  However, Goldman shares fell 74 cents to $85.86 despite the strong earnings report because of concerns about 51 million previously restricted shares that are now eligible for sale. Charles Schwab on Wednesday said that subsidiary U.S. Trust Corp. has agreed to acquire the Private Asset Management business of State Street Corporation for $365 million in cash. The deal is expected to close in the fourth quarter of 2003 and is subject to approval. The Private Asset Management group has $11.5 billion in assets under management. The business will operate under the U.S. Trust name following the acquisition, and will retain its current management. Schwab shares rose 1.6 percent, while State Street's added 0.1 percent to $39.42. And Freddie Mac said it will restate its past results to add up to $4.5 billion to its earnings from the past three years. The mortgage-finance giant also warned it expects "significant volatility" to future earnings. "The information we are disclosing today reflects poorly on Freddie Mac's past accounting, control and disclosure practices," said Chief Executive Gregory Parseghian in a prepared statement. "Management is aggressively addressing these issues." Freddie Mac shares rose 2.7 percent, to $51.45. This story was supplied by CBSMarketWatch. For further information see www.cbsmarketwatch.com. 
   INi831 : Financial Investments | iinv : Investing/Securities   NSc13 : Regulation/Government Policy | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPCUS | RTG | NEW | 833 | 834 | 837 | 839 | 840 | 810 | 850   PUBXinhua Financial Network Limited   ANDocument afxasi0020030629dz6q00199  



 HD Financials hold gains after rate cut - UPDATE 2.    WC315 words   PD26 June 2003   SNAFX Asia   SCAFXASI   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2003, AFX Asia. All rights reserved.
   LP NEW YORK (AFX) - Financial stocks were mostly unchanged at higher levels after the Federal Reserve cut its target for a key overnight interest rate at mid-afternoon Wednesday. The AMEX Securities Broker/Dealer Index stood up 1. 8 percent, while the Philadelphia Bank Sector Index was up 0.9 percent. In broader sector action, Goldman Sachs topped analysts' second-quarter consensus estimates on solid bond and currency trading revenue. Goldman also surprised Wall Street by more than doubling its quarterly dividend, raising it to 25 cents from 12 cents. However, Goldman shares fell 74 cents to $85.86 despite the strong earnings report because of concerns about 51 million previously restricted shares that are now eligible for sale. Charles Schwab on Wednesday said that subsidiary U.S. Trust Corp. has agreed to acquire the Private Asset Management business of State Street Corporation for $365 million in cash. 
   TD  The deal is expected to close in the fourth quarter of 2003 and is subject to approval. The Private Asset Management group has $11.5 billion in assets under management. The business will operate under the U.S. Trust name following the acquisition, and will retain its current management. Schwab shares rose 1.6 percent, while State Street's added 0.1 percent to $39.42. And Freddie Mac said it will restate its past results to add up to $4.5 billion to its earnings from the past three years. The mortgage-finance giant also warned it expects "significant volatility" to future earnings. "The information we are disclosing today reflects poorly on Freddie Mac's past accounting, control and disclosure practices," said Chief Executive Gregory Parseghian in a prepared statement. "Management is aggressively addressing these issues." Freddie Mac shares rose 2.7 percent, to $51.45. This story was supplied by CBSMarketWatch. For further information see www.cbsmarketwatch.com. 
   INi831 : Financial Investments | iinv : Investing/Securities   NSc13 : Regulation/Government Policy | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPCUS | RTG | NEW | 810 | 850 | 833 | 834 | 837 | 839 | 840   PUBXinhua Financial Network Limited   ANDocument afxasi0020030629dz6q0018w  



 HD Fed's latest move signals no more rate cuts - economists say.    WC803 words   PD26 June 2003   SNAFX Asia   SCAFXASI   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2003, AFX Asia. All rights reserved.
   LP WASHINGTON (AFX) - With its latest quarter-point cut to overnight lending rates, the Federal Reserve has done all it needs to do to bring back the U.S. economy, many economists say. 

 However, a few economists are sticking to their forecasts that the Federal Open Market Committee will cut the federal funds target rate to 0.75 pct within the next few months to address continued uncertainty about the economy. 
   TD "The Fed is done," said Irwin Kellner, chief economist at CBS MarketWatch and the Weller professor of economics at Hofstra University. "This reflects the Fed's view that the worst is over." 

 Kellner had been expecting another rate cut in August, but he changed his mind when he read the FOMC statement. 

 While policymakers acknowledged that they had seen no real sustainable growth yet, the FOMC's statement was much more positive about the economy than its other recent statements, arguing that recent data indicate signs of improvement not only in financial conditions but in labor markets, output and sales, as well. 

 "While there is clearly more room to cut the funds rate, the tone of the statement could be taken as saying that is not likely to occur," said Joel Naroff, president of Naroff Economic Advisers. 

 "This could be the last cut for a while," said Sung Won Sohn, chief economist at Wells Fargo. 

 The upbeat tone of the statement sent the bond market into a massive sell-off, with the yield on the 10-year note rising to 3.40 pct from about 3. 27 pct just before the announcement. 

 If it continues, the backup in bond yields could stifle the economic recovery the Fed is trying to encourage. While his firm is still tentatively penciling in another rate cut, it's too early to panic about high bond yields, said Ed McKelvey, economist at Goldman Sachs. 

 "Even at 3.40 pct, the yield is still 50 basis points lower than it was just before the May meeting," McKelvey said. The plunge in yields over the past eight weeks has fueled another surge of mortgage refinancing and even persuaded General Motors to refinance its pension obligations. 

 By putting the markets on notice that it still finds deflation the greatest risk to the economy, the FOMC cemented expectations that rates will stay low for a long, long time. 

 "If the bond market listens hard to the Fed, it will see a very long period of stable rates," McKelvey said. He doesn't expect the first rate hike to come until 2005 at the earliest. 

 "This says that the Federal Reserve won't be raising the interest rate in the foreseeable future," Sohn said. 

 "It is comforting to know that interest rates will not be raised any time soon," agreed Tony Crescenzi, chief bond market strategist at Miller Tabak. 

 A few economists are holding onto the possibility of further cuts. 

 The dissent by San Francisco Fed President Robert Parry is "notable," said Robert DiClemente, economist at Citigroup Global Markets, because it hints that "the hurdles for another rate cut are not very high." 

 By cutting rates just 25 basis points to one pct after telegraphing a larger move, the Fed was wishy-washy and set up the markets to expect another cut in August, said Sherry Cooper, chief economist at BMO Nesbitt Burns. 

 David Rosenberg, chief economist at Merrill Lynch, agrees that "if the economy doesn't improve we think the Fed could potentially cut rates another 25 basis points" to 0.75 pct at the August 12 meeting. 

 Cutting rates is pointless anyway, said Richard Yamarone, director of economic research at Argus Research. "Monetary policy is basically impotent," he said. 

 "There's nothing that a Fed rate cut will do to revive the dead horse of business investment and manufacturing," Yamarone said. "Businesses are mired in recession amid weak global demand and lackluster profitability." 

 "Interest rates have been at near-record lows for the better portion of three years, and businesses still haven't turned to the well," Yamarone said. It won't do much for consumers either. 

 "It is unlikely that the cut will have any significant simulative effect, " said Ed Peters, chief investment officer at PanAgora Asset Management. "Anyone with decent credit can purchase, and most consumers continue to do so. " 

 With interest rates so low, the Fed's chief weapon is psychological. By expressing optimism about the recovery, the Fed is trying to give cautious investors a reason to take the plunge. At the same time, the Fed hopes to pin interest rates at low levels until inflationary pressures build. 

 "The message matters more than the actual cut," said James Glassman, economist at JP Morgan. That said, "There's nothing wrong with a one percent funds rate." wk. 
   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPCUS | MON | ECO | ANL   PUBXinhua Financial Network Limited   ANDocument afxasi0020030628dz6q000kd  



 HD Fed cuts rates by quarter point - UPDATE 6.    WC621 words   PD26 June 2003   SNAFX Asia   SCAFXASI   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2003, AFX Asia. All rights reserved.
   LP WASHINGTON (AFX) - The Federal Reserve cut its overnight interest rate by a quarter percentage point Wednesday in an effort to boost the economy and encourage a bit of inflation. In cutting the federal fund rate from 1.25 percent to a 45-year low of 1 percent, the Federal Open Market Committee expressed impatience with the pace of growth but remained optimistic that the U.S. economy would recover fully. "Recent signs point to a firming in spending, markedly improved financial conditions and labor and product markets that are stabilizing," the 12-member committee said Nonetheless, the economy "has yet to exhibit sustainable growth." "With inflationary expectations subdued," the Fed said "a slightly more expansive monetary policy would add further support for an economy which it expects to improve over time." "This reflects the Fed's view that the worst is over," said Irwin Kellner, chief economist at CBS.MarketWatch.com and the Weller professor of economics at Hofstra University. 
   TD  "The Fed is done." Bonds sold off on the upbeat tone of the statement and on the lack of support for any "unconventional" tools the Fed might employ to defeat inflation. The yield on the 10-year note jumped nine basis points from 3.28 percent to 3.37 percent immediately. The dollar strengthened. Stocks sold off. In the futures market, odds of a rate cut in August plunged from about 72 percent to 30 percent after the statement was released. "The Fed continued to speak to both the fixed-income and equity markets," said Drew Matus, an economist at Lehman Brothers. The Fed's firm belief in the recovery "give the equity market something to grab hold of." And its statement that the "minor" risk of deflation would "predominate for the foreseeable future" keeps "the pressure on longer-term Treasury yields," Matus said. Policymakers repeated their determination to prevent an unwelcome decline in inflation. In the foreseeable future, the FOMC said, risks were tilted toward the prospect of too little inflation while the risks to its growth forecast were judged to be balanced. The statement implied that the Fed will keep its target rate very low for a long time. Further rate cuts are possible if economic growth stagnates or inflationary pressures ease further, Matus said. The 25 basis-point reduction in the federal funds target rate to a 45-year low of 1 percent is the 13th rate cut by the U.S. central bank since January 2001, when the fed funds rate stood at 6.50 percent. Banks typically peg their prime lending rate directly to the fed funds rate, but other consumer and commercial rates tend to float with market forces. Consumers aren't likely to see much relief from the latest cut, financial experts said. Before the announcement, financial markets were leaning slightly toward the expectation that there would be a more aggressive half-point cut to 0.75 percent. One member, San Francisco Fed President Robert Parry, preferred the half-point cut. Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan said three weeks ago that the Fed wants to create a wide "firebreak" to block deflation and would "bend over backwards to make sure that wages and prices do not decline. The federal funds rate is the rate banks charge each other for overnight loans to meet the Fed's reserve requirements. By buying or selling short-term Treasury bills, the Fed manipulates short-term rates in the market, allowing banks to increase or decrease the funds available for loans. Ultimately, the fed funds rate influences even longer-term rates, such as mortgages, corporate bonds and Treasury notes. This story was supplied by CBSMarketWatch. For further information see www.cbsmarketwatch.com. 
   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPCUS | BND | ECO | 810 | 850   PUBXinhua Financial Network Limited   ANDocument afxasi0020030628dz6q000im  



 HD Fed cuts rates by quarter point - UPDATE 5.    WC608 words   PD26 June 2003   SNAFX Asia   SCAFXASI   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2003, AFX Asia. All rights reserved.
   LP WASHINGTON (AFX) - The Federal Reserve cut its overnight interest rate by a quarter percentage point Wednesday in an effort to boost the economy and encourage a bit of inflation. The Federal Open Market Committee expressed impatience with the pace of growth but remained optimistic that the U.S. economy would recover fully. "Recent signs point to a firming in spending, markedly improved financial conditions and labor and product markets that are stabilizing," the 12-member committee said Nonetheless, the economy "has yet to exhibit sustainable growth." "With inflationary expectations subdued," the Fed said "a slightly more expansive monetary policy would add further support for an economy which it expects to improve over time." "This reflects the Fed's view that the worst is over," said Irwin Kellner, chief economist at CBS.MarketWatch.com and the Weller professor of economics at Hofstra University. 
   TD  "The Fed is done." Bonds sold off on the upbeat tone of the statement and on the lack of support for any "unconventional" tools the Fed might employ to defeat inflation. The yield on the 10-year note jumped nine basis points from 3.28 percent to 3.37 percent immediately. The dollar strengthened. Stocks sold off initially before regaining most of the lost ground. In the futures market, odds of a rate cut in August plunged from about 72 percent to 30 percent after the statement was released. "The Fed continued to speak to both the fixed-income and equity markets," said Drew Matus, an economist at Lehman Brothers. The Fed's firm belief in the recovery "give the equity market something to grab hold of." And its statement that the "minor" risk of deflation would "predominate for the foreseeable future" keeps "the pressure on longer-term Treasury yields," Matus said. Policymakers repeated their determination to prevent an unwelcome decline in inflation. In the foreseeable future, the FOMC said risks were tilted toward too little inflation while the risks to its growth forecast were judged to be balanced. The statement implied that the Fed will keep its target rate very low for a long time. Further rate cuts are possible if economic growth stagnates or inflationary pressures ease further, Matus said. The 25 basis-point reduction in the federal funds target rate to a 45-year low of 1 percent is the 13th rate cut by the U.S. central bank since January 2001, when the fed funds rate stood at 6.50 percent. Banks typically peg their prime lending rate directly to the fed funds rate, but other consumer and commercial rates tend to float with market forces. Consumers aren't likely to see much relief from the latest cut, financial experts said. Before the announcement, financial markets were leaning slightly toward the expectation that there would be a more aggressive half-point cut to 0.75 percent. One member, San Francisco Fed President Robert Parry, preferred the half-point cut. Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan said three weeks ago that the Fed wants to create a wide "firebreak" to block deflation and would "bend over backwards to make sure that wages and prices do not decline. The federal funds rate is the rate banks charge each other for overnight loans to meet the Fed's reserve requirements. By buying or selling short-term Treasury bills, the Fed manipulates short-term rates in the market, allowing banks to increase or decrease the funds available for loans. Ultimately, the fed funds rate influences even longer-term rates, such as mortgages, corporate bonds and Treasury notes. This story was supplied by CBSMarketWatch. For further information see www.cbsmarketwatch.com. 
   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPCUS | ECO | BND | 810 | 850   PUBXinhua Financial Network Limited   ANDocument afxasi0020030628dz6q000i4  



 HD Fed cuts rates by quarter point - UPDATE 4.    WC608 words   PD26 June 2003   SNAFX Asia   SCAFXASI   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2003, AFX Asia. All rights reserved.
   LP WASHINGTON (AFX) - The Federal Reserve cut its overnight interest rate by a quarter percentage point Wednesday in an effort to boost the economy and encourage a bit of inflation. The Federal Open Market Committee expressed impatience with the pace of growth but remained optimistic that the U.S. economy would recover fully. "Recent signs point to a firming in spending, markedly improved financial conditions and labor and product markets that are stabilizing," the 12-member committee said Nonetheless, the economy "has yet to exhibit sustainable growth." "With inflationary expectations subdued," the Fed said "a slightly more expansive monetary policy would add further support for an economy which it expects to improve over time." "This reflects the Fed's view that the worst is over," said Irwin Kellner, chief economist at CBS.MarketWatch.com and the Weller professor of economics at Hofstra University. 
   TD  "The Fed is done." Bonds sold off on the upbeat tone of the statement and on the lack of support for any "unconventional" tools the Fed might employ to defeat inflation. The yield on the 10-year note jumped nine basis points from 3.28 percent to 3.37 percent immediately. The dollar strengthened. Stocks sold off initially before regaining most of the lost ground. In the futures market, odds of a rate cut in August plunged from about 72 percent to 30 percent after the statement was released. "The Fed continued to speak to both the fixed-income and equity markets," said Drew Matus, an economist at Lehman Brothers. The Fed's firm belief in the recovery "give the equity market something to grab hold of." And its statement that the "minor" risk of deflation would "predominate for the foreseeable future" keeps "the pressure on longer-term Treasury yields," Matus said. Policymakers repeated their determination to prevent an unwelcome decline in inflation. In the foreseeable future, the FOMC said risks were tilted toward too little inflation while the risks to its growth forecast were judged to be balanced. The statement implied that the Fed will keep its target rate very low for a long time. Further rate cuts are possible if economic growth stagnates or inflationary pressures ease further, Matus said. The 25 basis-point reduction in the federal funds target rate to a 45-year low of 1 percent is the 13th rate cut by the U.S. central bank since January 2001, when the fed funds rate stood at 6.50 percent. Banks typically peg their prime lending rate directly to the fed funds rate, but other consumer and commercial rates tend to float with market forces. Consumers aren't likely to see much relief from the latest cut, financial experts said. Before the announcement, financial markets were leaning slightly toward the expectation that there would be a more aggressive half-point cut to 0.75 percent. One member, San Francisco Fed President Robert Parry, preferred the half-point cut. Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan said three weeks ago that the Fed wants to create a wide "firebreak" to block deflation and would "bend over backwards to make sure that wages and prices do not decline. The federal funds rate is the rate banks charge each other for overnight loans to meet the Fed's reserve requirements. By buying or selling short-term Treasury bills, the Fed manipulates short-term rates in the market, allowing banks to increase or decrease the funds available for loans. Ultimately, the fed funds rate influences even longer-term rates, such as mortgages, corporate bonds and Treasury notes. This story was supplied by CBSMarketWatch. For further information see www.cbsmarketwatch.com. 
   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPCUS | BND | ECO | 810 | 850   PUBXinhua Financial Network Limited   ANDocument afxasi0020030628dz6q000i1  



 HD Fed cuts rates by quarter point - UPDATE 3.    WC634 words   PD26 June 2003   SNAFX Asia   SCAFXASI   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2003, AFX Asia. All rights reserved.
   LP WASHINGTON (AFX) - The Federal Reserve cut its overnight interest rate by a quarter percentage point Wednesday in an effort to boost the economy and encourage a bit of inflation. The Federal Open Market Committee expressed impatience with the pace of growth but remained optimistic that the U.S. economy would recover fully. "Recent signs point to a firming in spending, markedly improved financial conditions and labor and product markets that are stabilizing," the 12-member committee said Nonetheless, the economy "has yet to exhibit sustainable growth." "With inflationary expectations subdued," the Fed said "a slightly more expansive monetary policy would add further support for an economy which it expects to improve over time." "This reflects the Fed's view that the worst is over," said Irwin Kellner, chief economist at CBS.MarketWatch.com and the Weller professor of economics at Hofstra University. "The Fed is done." Bonds sold off on the upbeat tone of the statement. 
   TD  The yield on the 10-year note jumped nine basis points from 3.28 percent to 3.37 percent immediately. The dollar strengthened. Stocks sold off initially before regaining most of the lost ground. In the futures market, odds of a rate cut in August plunged from about 72 percent to 30 percent after the statement was released. The 25 basis-point reduction in the federal funds target rate to a 45-year low of 1 percent is the 13th rate cut by the U.S. central bank since January 2001, when the fed funds rate stood at 6.50 percent. Before the announcement, financial markets were leaning slightly toward the expectation that there would be a more aggressive half-point cut to 0.75 percent. One member, San Francisco Fed President Robert Parry, preferred the half-point cut. Policymakers repeated their determination to prevent an unwelcome decline in inflation. In the foreseeable future, the FOMC said risks were tilted toward too little inflation while the risks to its growth forecast were judged to be balanced. The statement implied that the Fed will keep its target rate very low for a long time. Further rate cuts are possible if economic growth stagnates or inflationary pressures ease further. While the Fed continues to forecast an economic upturn, it remains concerned that unless growth exceeds the long-term trend for several quarters or years, inflation rates will continue to fall, perhaps leading to an "unwelcome" period of deflation. Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan said three weeks ago that the Fed wants to create a wide "firebreak" to block deflation and would "bend over backwards" to make sure that wages and prices do not decline. Financial markets were expecting a rate cut, but no consensus emerged about the size of the cut: 25 basis points or 50 basis points. Those predicting a larger 50 basis point cut said the Fed had promised to be agg ressive about rooting out the seeds of deflation, fearing that a weak response could backfire as it did in Japan. Those who saw a smaller quarter point cut said the economy didn't need a large cut because conditions are already ripe for a healthy rebound later this year. They said short-term money markets could be disrupted by a drop in the fed funds rate below 1 percent. The federal funds rate is the rate banks charge each other for overnight loans to meet the Fed's reserve requirements. By buying or selling short-term Treasury bills, the Fed manipulates short-term rates in the market, allowing banks to increase or decrease the funds available for loans. Ultimately, the fed funds rate influences even longer-term rates, such as mortgages, corporate bonds and Treasury notes. This story was supplied by CBSMarketWatch. For further information see www.cbsmarketwatch.com. 
   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPCUS | BND | ECO | 810 | 850   PUBXinhua Financial Network Limited   ANDocument afxasi0020030628dz6q000hy  



 HD Fed cuts rates by quarter point - UPDATE 2.    WC574 words   PD26 June 2003   SNAFX Asia   SCAFXASI   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2003, AFX Asia. All rights reserved.
   LP WASHINGTON (AFX) - The Federal Reserve cut its overnight interest rate by a quarter percentage point Wednesday in an effort to boost the economy and encourage a bit of inflation. The Federal Open Market Committee expressed impatience but remained optimistic that the economy would recover fully. "Recent signs point to a firming in spending, markedly improved financial conditions and labor and product markets that are stabilizing," the 12-member committee said. Nonetheless, the economy "has yet to exhibit sustainable growth." The Fed said "a slightly more expansive monetary policy would add further support for an economy which it expects to improve over time." "This reflects the Fed's view that the worst is over," said Irwin Kellner, chief economist at CBS.MarketWatch.com and the Weller professor of economics at Hofstra University. "The Fed is done." In the futures market, odds of a rate cut in August plunged from about 72 percent to 30 percent after the statement was released. 
   TD  The 25 basis-point reduction in the federal funds target rate to a 45-year low of 1 percent is the 13th rate cut by the U.S. central bank since January 2001, when the fed funds rate stood at 6.50 percent. Financial markets were leaning toward the expectation that there would be a more aggressive half-point cut to 0.75 percent. One member, San Francisco Fed President Robert Parry, preferred the half-point cut. Policymakers repeated their determination to prevent an unwelcome decline in inflation. In the foreseeable future, the FOMC said risks were tilted toward too little inflation while the risks to its growth forecast were judged to be balanced. The statement implied that the Fed will keep its target rate very low for a long time. Further rate cuts are possible if economic growth stagnates or inflationary pressures ease further. While the Fed continues to forecast an economic upturn, it remains concerned that unless growth exceeds the long-term trend for several quarters or years, inflation rates will continue to fall, perhaps leading to an "unwelcome" period of deflation. Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan said three weeks ago that the Fed wants to create a wide "firebreak" to block deflation and would "bend over backwards" to make sure that wages and prices do not decline. Financial markets were expecting a rate cut, but no consensus emerged about the size of the cut: 25 basis points or 50 basis points. Those predicting a larger 50 basis point cut said the Fed had promised to be aggressive about rooting out the seeds of deflation, fearing that a weak response could backfire as it did in Japan. Those who saw a smaller quarter point cut said the economy didn't need a large cut because conditions are already ripe for a healthy rebound later this year. They said short-term money markets could be disrupted by a drop in the fed funds rate below 1 percent. The federal funds rate is the rate banks charge each other for overnight loans to meet the Fed's reserve requirements. By buying or selling short-term Treasury bills, the Fed manipulates short-term rates in the market, allowing banks to increase or decrease the funds available for loans. Ultimately, the fed funds rate influences even longer-term rates, such as mortgages, corporate bonds and Treasury notes. This story was supplied by CBSMarketWatch. For further information see www.cbsmarketwatch.com. 
   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPCUS | BND | ECO | 810 | 850   PUBXinhua Financial Network Limited   ANDocument afxasi0020030628dz6q000hs  



 HD Financials unchanged at higher levels after Fed cut.    WC88 words   PD26 June 2003   SNAFX Asia   SCAFXASI   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2003, AFX Asia. All rights reserved.
   LP NEW YORK (AFX) - Financial stocks were mostly unchanged at higher levels after the Federal Reserve cut its target for a key overnight interest rate. The AMEX Securities Broker/Dealer Index stood up 1.7 percent while the Philadelphia Bank Sector Index was up 1.1 percent. The central bank cut it key target for the federal funds rate by one quarter of 1 percent, to 1 percent. This story was supplied by CBSMarketWatch. For further information see www.cbsmarketwatch.com. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPCUS | GEN | 810 | 850   PUBXinhua Financial Network Limited   ANDocument afxasi0020030628dz6q000hj  



 HD Fed cuts rates by quarter point - UPDATE 1.    WC517 words   PD26 June 2003   SNAFX Asia   SCAFXASI   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2003, AFX Asia. All rights reserved.
   LP WASHINGTON (AFX) - The Federal Reserve cut its overnight interest rate by a quarter percentage point Wednesday in an effort to boost the economy and encourage a bit of inflation. The 25 basis-point reduction in the federal funds target rate to a 45-year low of 1 percent is the 13th rate cut by the U. S. central bank since January 2001, when the fed funds rate stood at 6.50 percent. The Fed said "a slightly more expansive monetary policy would add further support for an economy which it expects to improve over time." Financial markets were leaning toward the expectation that there would be a more aggressive half-point cut to 0.75 percent. One member, San Francisco Fed President Robert Parry, preferred a half-point cut. 
   TD  In its statement, the Federal Open Market Committee said financial conditions were ripe for an economic recovery, but cautioned that "the economy has yet to exhibit sustainable growth." The group said that "recent signs point to a firming in spending, markedly improved financial conditions and labor and product markets that are stabilizing." At the same time, policymakers repeated their determination to prevent an unwelcome decline in inflation. In the foreseeable future, the FOMC said risks were tilted toward too little growth as opposed to higher inflation. The statement strongly implied that the Fed will keep its target rate very low for a long time. Further rate cuts are possible if economic growth stagnates or inflationary pressures ease further. While the Fed continues to forecast an economic upturn, it remains concerned that unless growth exceeds the long-term trend for several quarters or years, inflation rates will continue to fall, perhaps leading to an "unwelcome" period of deflation. Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan said three weeks ago that the Fed wants to create a wide "firebreak" to block deflation and would "bend over backwards" to make sure that wages and prices do not decline. Financial markets were expecting a rate cut, but no consensus emerged about the size of the cut: 25 basis points or 50 basis points. Those predicting a larger 50 basis point cut said the Fed had promised to be aggressive about rooting out the seeds of deflation, fearing that a weak response could backfire as it did in Japan. Those who saw a smaller quarter point cut said the economy didn't need a large cut because conditions are already ripe for a healthy rebound later this year. They said short-term money markets could be disrupted by a drop in the fed funds rate below 1 percent. The federal funds rate is the rate banks charge each other for overnight loans to meet the Fed's reserve requirements. By buying or selling short-term Treasury bills, the Fed manipulates short-term rates in the market, allowing banks to increase or decrease the funds available for loans. Ultimately, the fed funds rate influences even longer-term rates, such as mortgages, corporate bonds and Treasury notes. This story was supplied by CBSMarketWatch. For further information see www.cbsmarketwatch.com. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPCUS | BND | ECO | 810 | 850   PUBXinhua Financial Network Limited   ANDocument afxasi0020030628dz6q000hi  



 HD Financials unchagned at higher levels after Fed cut.    WC88 words   PD26 June 2003   SNAFX Asia   SCAFXASI   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2003, AFX Asia. All rights reserved.
   LP NEW YORK (AFX) - Financial stocks were mostly unchanged at higher levels after the Federal Reserve cut its target for a key overnight interest rate. The AMEX Securities Broker/Dealer Index stood up 1.7 percent while the Philadelphia Bank Sector Index was up 1.1 percent. The central bank cut it key target for the federal funds rate by one quarter of 1 percent, to 1 percent. This story was supplied by CBSMarketWatch. For further information see www.cbsmarketwatch.com. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPCUS | GEN | 810 | 850   PUBXinhua Financial Network Limited   ANDocument afxasi0020030628dz6q000hh  



 HD Fed cuts rates by quarter point.    WC478 words   PD26 June 2003   SNAFX Asia   SCAFXASI   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2003, AFX Asia. All rights reserved.
   LP WASHINGTON (AFX) - The Federal Reserve cut its overnight interest rate by a quarter percentage point Wednesday in an effort to boost the economy and encourage a bit of inflation. The 25 basis-point reduction in the federal funds target rate to a 45-year low of 1 percent is the 13th rate cut by the U. S. central bank since January 2001, when the fed funds rate stood at 6.50 percent. The Fed said "a slightly more expansive monetary policy would add further support for an economy which it expects to improve over time." Financial markets were leaning toward the expectation that there would be a more aggressive half-point cut to 0.75 percent. In its statement, the Federal Open Market Committee said financial conditions were ripe for an economic recovery, but cautioned that "the economy has yet to exhibit sustainable growth." At the same time, policymakers repeated their determination to prevent an unwelcome decline in inflation. 
   TD  In the foreseeable future, the FOMC said risks were tilted toward too little growth as opposed to higher inflation. The statement strongly implied that the Fed will keep its target rate very low for a long time. Further rate cuts are possible if economic growth stagnates or inflationary pressures ease further. While the Fed continues to forecast an economic upturn, it remains concerned that unless growth exceeds the long-term trend for several quarters or years, inflation rates will continue to fall, perhaps leading to an "unwelcome" period of deflation. Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan said three weeks ago that the Fed wants to create a wide "firebreak" to block deflation and would "bend over backwards" to make sure that wages and prices do not decline. Financial markets were expecting a rate cut, but no consensus emerged about the size of the cut: 25 basis points or 50 basis points. Those predicting a larger 50 basis point cut said the Fed had promised to be aggressive about rooting out the seeds of deflation, fearing that a weak response could backfire as it did in Japan. Those who saw a smaller quarter point cut said the economy didn't need a large cut because conditions are already ripe for a healthy rebound later this year. They said short-term money markets could be disrupted by a drop in the fed funds rate below 1 percent. The federal funds rate is the rate banks charge each other for overnight loans to meet the Fed's reserve requirements. By buying or selling short-term Treasury bills, the Fed manipulates short-term rates in the market, allowing banks to increase or decrease the funds available for loans. Ultimately, the fed funds rate influences even longer-term rates, such as mortgages, corporate bonds and Treasury notes. This story was supplied by CBSMarketWatch. For further information see www.cbsmarketwatch.com. 
   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPCUS | BND | ECO | 810 | 850   PUBXinhua Financial Network Limited   ANDocument afxasi0020030628dz6q000he  



 HD Fed cuts key  interest rate  by quarter point.    WC97 words   PD26 June 2003   SNAFX Asia   SCAFXASI   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2003, AFX Asia. All rights reserved.
   LP The Federal Reserve on Wednesday cut its target fed funds lending rate by a quarter point, to 1.00 percent, or the lowest since 1958. The panel said the risks in the U.S. economy are still tilted toward weakness. One member dissented on the decision to cut rates by a quarter point. The Fed said "a slightly more expansive monetary policy would add further support for an economy which it expects to improve over time." This story was supplied by CBSMarketWatch. For further information see www.cbsmarketwatch.com. 
   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPCUS | BND | ECO   PUBXinhua Financial Network Limited   ANDocument afxasi0020030628dz6q000hd  



 HDUS economy grows 1.4 percent in first quarter of 2003.     WC284 words   PD26 June 2003   SNAgence France Presse   SCAFPR   LAEnglish   CYCopyright Agence France-Presse, 2003 All reproduction and presentation rights reserved.  
   LPATTENTION - RECASTS, ADDS background ///  

The US economy grew at a tepid annualized pace of 1.4 percent in the first quarter of this year, even slower than earlier estimates, revised government figures showed Thursday.  
   TDThe government had estimated the January-March gross domestic product growth rate at 1.9 percent.  

But the new figures revealed that US economic expansion trundled along at the same 1.4 percent rate in the last quarter of 2002 and in the Iraq war-shaken first quarter of 2003.  

The news was released a day after Federal Reserve policymakers sliced the key US interest rate by a quarter point to a 45-year low of 1.0 percent to boost activity and preempt deflation.  

Federal Reserve chairman Alan Greenspan and his colleagues cut the federal funds target rate, which commercial banks charge each other for overnight loans, to the lowest level since 1958.  

It was the 13th cut since January 2001.  

The economy appeared to be turning in the right direction, they said, but it could still do with a boost.  

"Recent signs point to a firming in spending, markedly improved financial conditions, and labor and product markets that are stabilizing. The economy, nonetheless, has yet to exhibit sustainable growth," the Federal Open Market Committee said in a statement.  

"With inflationary expectations subdued, the committee judged that a slightly more expansive monetary policy would add further support for an economy which it expects to improve over time."  

Many economists are forecasting sluggish economic growth in the current April-June quarter of this year, with a substantial acceleration expected only in the second half of this year.  

djw/ejp.  
   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPC20030626:124900-TX-BWL16 | US | economy | growth lead | F | I   PUBAgence France Presse   ANDocument AFPR000020030628dz6q0002i  



 HDUS  interest rate  cut eases pressure on Australian central bankers.     WC480 words   PD26 June 2003   SNAgence France Presse   SCAFPR   LAEnglish   CYCopyright Agence France-Presse, 2003 All reproduction and presentation rights reserved.  
   LPA smaller than expected cut by the Federal Reserve in US interest rates has eased the pressure on Australian central bankers to make a smiliar move when they meet next week, economists said Thursday.  

The US Federal Reserve policymakers cut interest rates by a quarter of a percentage point to a 45-year low of 1.0 percent Wednesday.  
   TDThe board of the Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) meets next Tuesday to discuss shifting from their neutral stance of the past year and cutting the local cash rate of 4.75 percent.  

Treasurer Peter Costello said the Federal Reserve cut would stimulate the US economy and therefore was positive for Australia but he refused to be drawn on the possible implications for local interest rates.  

Ahead of the US decision, analysts in Australia had suggested that an aggressive 50-basis point cut in the US would put pressure on the RBA to make a similar move.  

Economists said a larger cut would have alarmed the markets and could have forced the Australian dollar to shoot up to 70 US cents, making exports more expensive.  

The Australian dollar has hovered around four-year highs recently, touching 67.37 US cents last week.  

The unexpected stability of the local curency in recent weeks following an earlier rally had eased the pressure on the RBA, said HSBC senior economist David Edwards.  

"There was a risk that if (the US) had cut by 50 basis points in the market conditions of four or five weeks ago, we may have gone straight to 70 US cents but here we are just under 67 cents and (the local dollar) came off its highs last night," Edwards said.  

He said the odds were 60/40 against the RBA easing next week, from a much closer call had the Federal Reserve cut by 50 basis points.  

ANZ senior economist David de Garis said there was little evidence interest rates were constraining the economy.  

"In fact, they seem to be doing their job in spurring interest-sensitive sectors of the economy on," he said.  

"I thought yesterday (Wednesday) that if the Fed did 25 rather than 50 basis points the RBA would leave rates unchanged in July and it's hard to change from that view."  

RBA governor Ian Macfarlane said earlier this month the government was pushing for an interest rate cut and he would be left without a choice if the global economy remained sluggish.  

However, the RBA has also been concerned about stimulating an already overheated property market.  

De Garis said the RBA faced a tough decision because there was little firm evidence available on what exactly was going on in the housing sector.  

Edwards said most economic data since Macfarlane announced a rate cut was possible had been discouraging of a reduction.  

ld/dm/bmm.  
   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REaustr : Australia | usa : United States | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | namz : North America   IPC20030626:073600-TX-BTG57 | US | rates | Australia | bank   PUBAgence France Presse   ANDocument AFPR000020030626dz6q000y8  



 HDHong Kong financial chief says US rate cut will help stimulate economy.     WC279 words   PD26 June 2003   SNAgence France Presse   SCAFPR   LAEnglish   CYCopyright Agence France-Presse, 2003 All reproduction and presentation rights reserved.  
   LPHong Kong Financial Secretary Antony Leung said Thursday the latest reduction in US interest rates will help boost the city's exports and stimulate its ailing economy.  

"I think the rate cut in the US will be positive for Hong Kong," as it will help to boost Hong Kong's export market as well as local economic activity, Leung told reporters.  
   TD"A low-interest environment is important to Hong Kong because it would maintain the economic activities. For our major export markets, a lower US interest rate will also have a stimulating effect," he said.  

"Hong Kong being a very open economy, and we depend a lot on exports, a low interest rate environment in our major markets is very important," said Leung.  

"In the foreseeable future, the analysts are predicting that the interest rate in the United States will remain at a low level for quite some time, and that too is positive for Hong Kong's economy," he said.  

Leung's comments came after the Hong Kong Monetary Authority cut its base rate, the rate at which it lends overnight funds through its discount window to local banks, by 25 basis points to 2.5 percent.  

The move was in response to a quarter-percentage-point rate cut by the US Federal Reserve's Federal Open Market Committee late on Thursday.  

In announcing the cut in federal funds rate from 1.25 percent to 1.0 percent, its lowest level in 45 years, the Federal Open Market Committee said the US economy "has yet to exhibit sustainable growth," despite recent signs of improvement.  

pl/dv.  
   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REchina : China | hkong : Hong Kong | usa : United States | asiaz : Asia | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America   IPC20030626:061200-TX-BSO08 | HongKong | economy | rates | US   PUBAgence France Presse   ANDocument AFPR000020030626dz6q000pa  



 HDAustralian government, investors see US rate cut differently.     WC402 words   PD26 June 2003   SNAgence France Presse   SCAFPR   LAEnglish   CYCopyright Agence France-Presse, 2003 All reproduction and presentation rights reserved.  
   LPATTENTION - ADDS stock market, dollar movements ///  

Australia's government welcomed the latest reduction in US interest rates as good news for exporters, but investor disappointment that the cut was not greater sent local stock prices lower.  
   TDSpeaking after the US central bank cut its key federal funds rate by a quarter of a percentage point overnight to its lowest level in 45 years, Treasurer Peter Costello said the move would give a needed boost to economies worldwide.  

"We think that that will provide additional stimulus to the American economy, which has been very sluggish and whilst the American economy is sluggish and world growth is down, that will affect all the countries of the world, including Australia," Costello said.  

"We will find it harder in a period of sluggish global growth for our exports, and until we see a return to sustainable growth by the American economy ... it's going to be hard for exporters around the world," he said.  

Costello declined to say whether the US Federal Reserve move might induce Australia's central bank to also lower its key rate when it meets next week.  

"We set it with a clear inflation target in mind," he said.  

"But the fact that the United States economy is weak means it has been harder for Australia in recent months." he said.  

"The fact that the American authorities are now reacting and trying to stimulate the American economy will be a positive for Australia," he said.  

The Australian share market meanwhile fell in early trading as investors followed the lead of their US counterparts after the rate cut.  

The benchmark SP/ASX 200 index was off 31.1 points or 1.01 percent to 3034.6 at midday. On Wall Street, the Dow Jones index earlier lost 98.322 points or 1.08 percent to close at 9,011.53.  

"Now that the (US) rate cut has happened there is certainly a bit of disappointment in the market," said Macquarie Equities stockbroker Helen Spencer.  

The Australian dollar, which has been riding high in recent months largely due to the interest rate differential with the US, slid sharply after the Federal Reserve announcement, but then began climbing again  

The Aussie fell on the Fed news from 67.10 US cents to 66.69. By midday it was trading back up at 66.86 cents.  

dm/nj.  
   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REaustr : Australia | usa : United States | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | namz : North America   IPC20030626:021600-TX-BRY85 | US | rates | Australia lead   PUBAgence France Presse   ANDocument AFPR000020030626dz6q0008r  



 HD European stocks - Factors to watch on June 25.    WC1,221 words   PD25 June 2003   ET08:08   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2003 Reuters Limited
   LP LONDON, June 25 (Reuters) - European shares geared for a mixed opening on Wednesday after glum overnight news from the U.S. technology sector and in restrained mood ahead of the Federal Reserve's interest rate meeting later in the day. Shares in software companies such as SAP (SAPG.DE) and Dassault Systemes (DAST.PA) could be affected after industry giant Verity Inc. (VRTY.O) reported quarterly earnings that fell short of Wall Street forecasts. 

 A sales warning from Advanced Micro Devices (AMD.N) and negative brokerage calls on technology powerhouses such as Cisco Systems (CSCO.O) and Juniper Networks (JNPR.O) may also weigh on the sector this side of the Atlantic. 
   TD Belgian brewer Interbrew (INTB.BR) said it saw volume growth during the first five months of 2003 and expected "meaningful" growth for the whole year - two days after a sales warning from Dutch rival Heineken (HEIN.AS) shook the industry. 

 The day's focus is on the size of an rate cut by the U.S. central bank, with no market consensus on whether it will be a quarter or half percentage point reduction. 

 A heavy slate of U.S. economic data, including durable goods and new home sales for May, will also come under scrutiny for further clues on any improvement in the world's largest economy. 


Financial bookmakers in London expect Britain's FTSE 100  to open 10 to 14
points higher, with Germany's DAX index          opening anywhere between
five points lower and 19 points higher, and France's CAC-40     seen
starting between three points lower and 12 points higher.



In New York on Tuesday, the Dow Jones industrial average  closed 0.41
percent higher at 9,110 points, and the tech-laden Nasdaq Composite
ended down 0.33 percent at 1,606 points.



The U.S. stock indices had been 0.2 percent higher and 0.7 percent lower
respectively when most European markets closed.



The following stocks are likely movers:.



INTERBREW (INTB.BR)



The Belgian brewer said it saw volume growth during the first five months of
2003 and expected "meaningful" growth for the whole year, two days after
Dutch rival Heineken (HEIN.AS) warned its 2003 target sales growth rate for
its 400 top brands would come in at four percent and not five to six percent
as previously forecasts.



For story



DEUTSCHE TELEKOM (DTEGn.DE)



Moody's changed, late on Tuesday, its outlook to positive from stable for
the Baa3 long-term debt ratings of the German operator, pointing at its
management's commitment to reducing cost and improving operating
performance, while continuing to deliver growth from key operations
including T-Mobile USA.



For story



SERONO (SEOZ.VX)



A U.S. Food and Drug Administration staff reviewer recommended against
approval of Serono's Serostim for patients who have lost their small
intestines to surgery or disease, according to documents made available late
on Tuesday.



An FDA advisory panel is due to meet on Wednesday to consider whether to
recommend approval of Serostim.



For story



DIXONS (DXNS.L)



Britain's biggest electrical retailer reports annual earnings after assuring
investors in April that it was on track to meet market targets for full year
profits.



For latest stories on Dixons



VIVENDI UNIVERSAL (EAUG.PA) (V.N)



Liberty Media Corp. (L.N) has made a bid for Vivendi's entertainment assets
that includes the Universal Music Group, a source familiar with the matter
said late on Tuesday.



The indebted media giant began narrowing the field of buyers for its U.S.
media empire on Tuesday after receiving four firm bids and one letter of
interest, another source familiar with the auction said.



Separately, Vivendi said its U.S. entertainment unit had closed a new $920
million five-year term loan which will be used to refinance an outstanding
portion of a $1.62 billion bridge loan. The group said the loan was
significantly oversubscribed.



For story



For the loan double story



CABLE & WIRELESS (CW.L)



The British telecoms group said late on Tuesday it would sell its French
domestic business to Europe's third-largest Internet service provider,
Tiscali SpA (TIS.MI), as part of its effort to refocus the group.



For story



HAVAS (EURC.PA)



The French advertising group is planning to integrate its UK communications,
marketing and advertising operations into a single business - paving the way
for similar restructuring in Germany, Italy and the Netherlands, the
Financial Times reports.



For story



DANONE (DANO.PA)



The French food group said late on Tuesday it expected 2003 earnings per
share growth of around five percent on currency effects and a negative five
percent impact linked to the sale of its beer interests. But Danone
confirmed the company's sales and operating margin targets for the full
year, in contrast to rival Unilever's (UNc.AS) shock sales warning.



Separately, Danone said it had no intention of making a takeover bid for
Japanese cultured milk drink maker Yakult Honsha Co. Ltd. (2267.T), in which
it holds a 19 percent stake.



For story



STANDARD CHARTERED (STAN.L)



The British bank with a large Asian presence is set to update investors and
analysts on its progress this year at 0800 GMT.



For latest stories



FIAT (FIA.MI)



A turnaround plan drawn up by Fiat sees a return to positive EBITDA only in
2006, the mayor of Turin said late on Tuesday after examining the Italian
industrial conglomerate's still secret blueprint for recovery.



For story



BRAMBLES (BI.L) (BIL.AX)(



The Anglo-Australian industrial services group said it expected full year
earnings to fall in line with market expectations, calming investor nerves
and sending its shares three percent higher.



For story



KLM (KLM.AS)



The Dutch air carrier holds its shareholders meeting, with investors hoping
to hear that conditions are improving after economic worries, the Iraqi war
and the deadly SARS virus in Asia pushed the number of air passengers to
plummet.



DEUTSCHE BANK (DBKGn.DE)



The German banking titan said it would launch a 20 billion yen ($169.6
million) corporate revival fund with UFJ Tsubasa Securities (8621.T),
becoming the latest foreign bank to seek profit from Japan's bad loan mess.



For story



LLOYDS TSB (LLOY.L)



The top British bank is considering selling its Brazilian operations,
industry sources said on Wednesday, in a move that could bring in more cash
to prop up the bank's generous dividend policy. Any disposal of the Brazil
unit would follow Lloyds' plans to sell its National Bank of New Zealand
business, which is that country's biggest bank.



For story



WESTLB



U.S. banks Lehman Brothers (LEH.N) and Citigroup (C.N) are possible bidders
for the principal finance unit of German state bank WestLB, the Financial
Times online said.



For story



U.S. DATA



May durable goods are due out at 1230 GMT, seen showing a 0.8 percent
monthly rise. New home sales in May are also expected to have risen to 1.034
million from 1.028 million in the previous month.



For individual country reports click on codes in brackets:



UK factors to watch.............................
German factors to watch........................
French factors to watch.............................
Italian factors to watch............................
Swiss factors to watch.............................
Benelux factors to watch...........................
Nordic factors to watch............................
Spanish factors to watch............................

   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m11 : Equity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REeecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | weurz : Western Europe   IPCN2K:.EU | N2K:CH | N2K:D | N2K:DNP | N2K:E | N2K:EUROPE | N2K:M | N2K:MF | N2K:PMF | N2K:PTD | N2K:RICCODE:2888.HK | N2K:RICCODE:BI.L | N2K:RICCODE:BIL.AX | N2K:RICCODE:CW.L | N2K:RICCODE:DANO.PA | N2K:RICCODE:DBKGn.DE | N2K:RICCODE:DTEGn.DE | N2K:RICCODE:DXNS.L | N2K:RICCODE:EAUG.PA | N2K:RICCODE:EURC.PA | N2K:RICCODE:FIA.MI | N2K:RICCODE:INTB.BR | N2K:RICCODE:KLM.AS | N2K:RICCODE:LLOY.L | N2K:RICCODE:SEOZ.VX | N2K:RICCODE:STAN.L | N2K:RICCODE:V.N | N2K:RICCODE:WDLG.UL | N2K:RNP | N2K:SCAN | N2K:STX | N2K:U | N2K:UKI | N2K:WEU   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument lba0000020030626dz6p00bqq  



 HD Australia sees economic stimulus from U.S. rate cut.    WC103 words   PD26 June 2003   ET01:16   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2003 Reuters Limited
   LP CANBERRA, June 26 (Reuters) - Australian Treasurer Peter Costello said on Thursday he sees economic stimulus stemming from the United States following the Federal Reserve's 25 basis point interest rate cut overnight. 

 "We think that will provide additional stimulus to the American economy which has been very sluggish," Costello told reporters. "That will be a positive for Australia." 
   TD The Federal Reserve trimmed U.S. interest rates a quarter percentage point to one percent or 45-year lows, citing recent hopeful economic signs as it offered a less potent growth tonic than markets had hoped. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia | namz : North America | usa : United States   IPCN2K:ASIA | N2K:AU | N2K:AUF | N2K:D | N2K:DNP | N2K:E | N2K:INT | N2K:M | N2K:MCE | N2K:RNP   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument lba0000020030625dz6p01853  



 HD UPDATE 1-Most of Wall Street sees Fed on hold into 2004.    BY By Victoria Thieberger    WC617 words   PD25 June 2003   ET23:44   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2003 Reuters Limited
   LP NEW YORK, June 25 (Reuters) - Top bond dealers on Wall Street say the Federal Reserve has left open the option to cut interest rates again if inflation falls more than expected, but only a handful are actually forecasting another cut. 

 After the central bank cut the key federal funds rate by a modest quarter-point to 1.0 percent - smaller than the half-point move that many dealers had been expecting - no one was prepared to rule out further easing. 
   TD "There's nothing in this statement that says the (Federal Open Market) Committee is allergic to further easing, but we think fed funds will be at 1.0 percent for a long period to come," said Credit Suisse First Boston chief economist Neal Soss. 

 The bond market showed its disappointment the Fed did not take more aggressive action. 

 The biggest selloff in six months pushed yields higher, raising borrowing costs for businesses and consumers and undoing much of the Fed's intended easing. Most loans are tied to rates of U.S. Treasuries and not to the fed funds rate. 

 The Fed did say it expects the economy to improve over time, but it also warned that concern over deflation "is likely to predominate for the foreseeable future". Economists said that left open the possibility of more easing if the economy remained weak and inflation fell a lot further. 

 A Reuters survey of the primary dealers that trade directly with the Fed found 16 of 20 expect no change in rates at the next two policy meetings in August and September. 

 Three are calling for another cut in August, and another dealer said such a move was possible. 

 "They're worried that deflation might still pose a threat to the economy and the implication is that if it becomes a greater threat, then they are ready to do something," said Nomura Securities chief economist David Resler. 

 Wednesday's rate cut was the 13th since the Fed began its current easing campaign in January 2001, and took the federal funds rate to its lowest point since 1958. 

 SOMETHING UP THEIR SLEEVE 

 Many economists were expecting a more aggressive half-percentage point cut after Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan recently said taking out "insurance" against further weakness was cheap. 

 By keeping a little more traditional interest-rate ammunition in its arsenal, the Federal Reserve also deferred the time it may need to take up rarely used tools like buying Treasury securities. 

 Although several senior Fed officials have discussed the types of special measures they could use to boost the economy if interest rates get close to zero, some have also said they would rather not go down that road if it can be avoided. 

 Most analysts expect the central bank will be content to leave interest rates at current lows for at least a year, since it would take several quarters of robust economic growth to start to eat up the spare capacity that is plaguing the economy. And inflation will not start to pick up again till after that. 

 Financial markets seem to be heeding the Fed's message of patience, even if economic growth does spurt higher. 

 The Reuters survey found no dealers are forecasting an increase in rates this year. Another five see a hike in the first half of 2004 and six in the second half. Another 8 dealers see no rate rise untill 2005. 

 "We believe long before the Fed actually moves to a tightening mode they will begin to signal it. There will be an enormous lead time," said Jon Blumenfeld, U.S. interest rate strategist at Commerzbank Securities. 
   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1103 : Inflation/Prices | e1117 : Business Sentiment | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPCN2K:ABR | N2K:ABX | N2K:CEN | N2K:D | N2K:DNP | N2K:E | N2K:EBX | N2K:FED | N2K:FUN | N2K:INT | N2K:M | N2K:MNI | N2K:POLL | N2K:RNP | N2K:U | N2K:US | N2K:XX   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument lba0000020030625dz6p015o7  



 HD FOMC statement from June 24-25 meeting.    WC336 words   PD25 June 2003   ET20:23   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2003 Reuters Limited
   LP
WASHINGTON, June 25 (Reuters) - Following is the full text
of the Federal Open Market Committee's interest rate policy
statement issued on Wednesday at the close of its June 24-25
meeting:
"The Federal Open Market Committee decided today to lower its
target for the federal funds rate by 25 basis points to 1
percent. In a related action, the Board of Governors approved a
25 basis point reduction in the discount rate to 2 percent.
The Committee continues to believe that an accommodative stance
of monetary policy, coupled with still robust underlying growth
in productivity, is providing important ongoing support to
economic activity. Recent signs point to a firming in spending,
markedly improved financial conditions, and labor and product
markets that are stabilizing. The economy, nonetheless, has yet
to exhibit sustainable growth.

   TD
 With inflationary expectations
subdued, the Committee judged that a slightly more expansive
monetary policy would add further support for an economy which
it expects to improve over time.
The Committee perceives that the upside and downside risks to
the attainment of sustainable growth for the next few quarters
are roughly equal. In contrast, the probability, though minor,
of an unwelcome substantial fall in inflation exceeds that of a
pickup in inflation from its already low level. On balance, the
Committee believes that the latter concern is likely to
predominate for the foreseeable future.
Voting for the FOMC monetary policy action were Alan Greenspan,
Chairman; Ben S. Bernanke; Susan S. Bies; J. Alfred Broaddus,
Jr.; Roger W. Ferguson, Jr.; Edward M. Gramlich; Jack Guynn;
Donald L. Kohn; Michael H. Moskow; Mark W. Olson; and Jamie B.
Stewart, Jr.
Voting against the action was Robert T. Parry. President Parry
preferred a 50 basis point reduction in the target for the
federal funds rate.
In taking the discount rate action, the Federal Reserve Board
approved the requests submitted by the Boards of Directors of
the Federal Reserve Banks of Boston, New York, St. Louis,
Kansas City, and San Francisco."

   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPCN2K:CAN | N2K:DBT | N2K:DNP | N2K:ECI | N2K:FED | N2K:FED/TEXT | N2K:FRX | N2K:J | N2K:MNI | N2K:N2U | N2K:O | N2K:UKI | N2K:US | N2K:WASH   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument lba0000020030625dz6p00zng  



 HD Dollar could dip if Fed rate cut shallow - traders.    BY By Kyle Peterson    WC482 words   PD25 June 2003   ET19:46   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2003 Reuters Limited
   LP CHICAGO, June 25 (Reuters) - The jury is still out on what the Federal Reserve might do with interest rates later on Wednesday, but one thing is clear: If it cuts less rather than more, the dollar could be facing another bout of selling. 

 If the Fed cuts by a quarter-percentage-point rather than a half-point, it may have to extend its easing cycle causing businesses to refrain from spending. 
   TD Deferred spending is no help to the U.S. economy and no help to its currency, they say. While consumer spending, especially on homes, has boosted the economy somewhat, business investment remains soft, stunting the job market. 

 "I think a quarter-point would give the rather unfortunate hope for another one," said Bob Priore, foreign exchange desk manager at Carr Futures in Chicago. "If you keep thinking that you can wait to get lower rates then you'll never spend anything. I think that's kind of bad." 

 A Reuters poll last week of Wall Street bond dealers who do business directly with the Fed, showed that all the dealers surveyed expected an ease and that just over half of those expected the deeper half-percentage point cut. The Fed will announce the decision at 2:15 p.m. EDT (1815 GMT). 

 The dollar last month notched a lifetime low of $1.1932 to the euro, helped in recent months by a tide of fixed income flows seeking higher-yielding euro-zone government bonds as an alternative to U.S. Treasuries. The European Central Bank's current refi rate is 2.0 percent, compared with the U.S. federal funds rate of 1.25 percent, its lowest in more than 40 years. 

 The dollar began mounting a rally against the euro last week, reaching a high on Tuesday of $1.1475. Analysts linked the gains to a shift in perceptions of how much interest rate differentials will continue to play in price action. 

 Marc Chandler, chief currency strategist at HSBC in New York, said the size of the rate move was less important to longer-term dollar reaction than the Fed's accompanying statement on the balance of economic risk. 

 "If (the Fed) gives that sense of finality, the dollar can rally. Open-ended is bad for the dollar," Chandler said. "Most of the time I'd say it's more important what the Fed does than what they say. This is one of the times, I'd say it's more important what they say than what they do." 

 Chandler said that in the unlikely event that the Fed shocks the market with no change to interest rates, the dollar would soar initially. But if traders get the feeling that the easing cycle is not over yet, then the dollar will sink in the longer term, he said. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | nanl : Analysis | ncat : Content Types   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPCN2K:CH | N2K:D | N2K:DNP | N2K:E | N2K:EUR | N2K:FCAST | N2K:FRX | N2K:GB | N2K:J | N2K:JP | N2K:M | N2K:RNP | N2K:U | N2K:UKI | N2K:US | N2K:WEU   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument lba0000020030625dz6p00yki  



 HD GLOBAL MARKETS-European stocks inch higher, all eyes on Fed.    BY By Simon Johnson    WC664 words   PD25 June 2003   ET13:03   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2003 Reuters Limited
   LP LONDON, June 25 (Reuters) - European stocks crept higher on Wednesday and bond yields fell as markets broadly held firm ahead of an expected cut in U.S. interest rates later in the day. 

 Stronger than expected business sentiment figures in Germany helped the euro pull back further from five week lows against the dollar set on Tuesday while oil traded flat and gold rose. U.S. stock index futures indicated a positive opening on Wall Street. 
   TD The U.S. Federal Reserve is widely expected to make a 13th interest rate cut in the current cycle when it ends a two-day meeting at around 1815 GMT. The big questions are whether rates will come down by 25 or 50 basis points and what it says about long-term interest rates. 

 Data including durable goods orders and new home sales for May will also provide more clues to the strength of recovery in the U.S. economy. 

 "Markets will do very little ahead of the FOMC meeting, but the U.S. durable goods data might spark a little interest," said E*TRADE Securities' global equity strategist Rupert Thompson. 

 "The FOMC's statement will be just as important as by how much they cut rates. They will probably say that the risks to growth are evenly balanced and there is a small risk of deflation." 

 The pan-European FTSE Eurotop rose 0.1 percent to 858.5 points while the narrower, blue-chip DJ Euro Stoxx index was flat at 2,447 points by 1030 GMT. 

 Traders said strong business sentiment figures from Germany had already been priced into European bourses. 

 The closely-watched Ifo index rose to 88.8 in June from 87.6 in May - its second successive gain - increasing hopes of a slight recovery in the sluggish German economy. 

 Earlier in the day Asian stock indices inched higher. Japan's Nikkei 225 index ended the day up slightly. 

 "We are still seeing active buying of lower-priced liquid stocks, but many major high-techs are looking a bit weak as investors wait to see what the Fed will do," said Norihiro Fujito, senior investment strategist at Mitsubishi Securities. 

 The broader TOPIX index rose 0.19 percent. 

 EURO ZONE BOND YIELDS FALL 

 Euro zone bond yields fell ahead of the Fed's decision on interest rates and hopes it will indicate a strong commitment to keeping interest rates low until U.S. economic growth shows signs of a strong rebound. 

 The benchmark 10-year Bund was down three basis points yielding 3.63 percent at 0945 GMT but up from lows on the German business sentiment data. Two-year notes fell 2.6 basis points to yield 1.98 percent. 

 Analysts said a 25 basis point cut by the Fed would see the market sell off slightly while a 50 basis point cut would help push yields lower. 

 "But much of this will depend on sentiment. If the Fed can convince markets that this is the final cut we might see some slight steepening of the curve in the U.S," said David Page, economist at Investec. 

 U.S. Treasury yields were little changed in early trade. U.S. 10-year notes were flat yielding 3.26 percent with two-year notes 1.6 basis points up yielding 1.118 percent. 

 The Ifo numbers in Germany helped boost the euro which slipped to a five week low on Tuesday. The euro was trading at $1.152 at 1030 GMT. 

 The yen firmed against the dollar by around 0.25 percent despite speculation the Bank of Japan had stepped into the market to stem the currency's rise. At 0945 GMT the yen was trading at 117.6 against the dollar. 

 Brent crude for August slipped three cents a barrel to $26.59 cents and gold rose to $348.00/348.50 from $345.70/346.45 at New York's close. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m11 : Equity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REeecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | weurz : Western Europe   IPCN2K:A | N2K:ASIA | N2K:DBT | N2K:DNP | N2K:EUROPE | N2K:FIN | N2K:FRX | N2K:FUND | N2K:GB | N2K:GOL | N2K:GVD | N2K:J | N2K:NAT | N2K:OIL | N2K:PTD | N2K:RBR | N2K:RNP | N2K:STX | N2K:TNT | N2K:UKI | N2K:US | N2K:WEU | N2K:XX | N2K:YDB   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument lba0000020030625dz6p00lgk  



 HD Malaysian funds may buy stocks if Fed cuts 50 bp.    WC442 words   PD25 June 2003   ET10:57   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2003 Reuters Limited
   LP KUALA LUMPUR, June 25 (Reuters) - A U.S. interest rate cut of half a percentage point could persuade some Malaysian funds to shift from bonds to equities, as investors trade the safety of low-yielding debt for the pull of higher returns. 

 But any move towards equities would be due to the U.S. economic growth story and low bond yields rather than a genuine increase in appetite for Malaysian stocks, fund managers said. 
   TD Analysts are divided on whether the Federal Reserve will cut its fed funds rate, now at 1.25 percent, by a quarter or a half percentage point when it announces its decision later on Wednesday. 

 Fund managers said a 50 basis point (bp) drop would dim the appeal of bonds, with yields already near 18-month lows. 

 "Some funds could trickle through to the Composite Index," said William Gan, fixed income strategist at KAF Research, referring to the stock market benchmark. 

 A rebound in the U.S. economy should boost the Malaysian stock market as the United States is Malaysia's largest trading partner, taking nearly a fifth of its exports. 

 "A 50 bp cut would trigger an upside in economic recovery in the United States," said Mohd Hasnul Ismar Mohd Ismail, general manager for investment at TA Unit Trust Management Bhd, which manages about 200 million ringgit ($52.6 million). 

 Strong demand for safe, albeit low-yielding, investments have squeezed Malaysian bond yields. Yields on the 10-year government bond currently the most actively traded debt, have dropped to 3.51 percent from a high of 4.83 percent in March 2002. 

 In contrast, the main stock index has struggled to break back above the 700-point mark it fell through last September. 

 Year to date, the index has risen 5.2 percent as a stream of mixed U.S. economic data presented an unconvincing outlook for corporate earnings. At 0851 GMT, the index was up 0.2 percent at 680.34. 

 Some fund managers, however, won't tweak their portfolios to increase their exposure to equities until there is a sustained pick-up in the stock market. 

 "I don't see a shift until there is convincing economic data from the U.S.," said the chief investment officer at a local bank, who declined to be identified. 

 Sean Liu, fixed income head at Prudential Unit Trust Bhd, which manages over one billion ringgit of funds, says bonds will retain their followers. 

 A stock market pick up would draw in cash on deposit in banks rather than money invested in bonds, he added. 

 ($1=3.8 ringgit). 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m11 : Equity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REasiaz : Asia | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | malay : Malaysia | namz : North America | seasiaz : Southeast Asia | usa : United States   IPCN2K:ABZ | N2K:ASIA | N2K:D | N2K:DBT | N2K:DNP | N2K:E | N2K:EMRG | N2K:FUND | N2K:MY | N2K:PCO | N2K:RNP | N2K:SI | N2K:STX | N2K:XX   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument lba0000020030625dz6p00hlp  



 CLMTuesday's Markets   HDThe Fed Sharpens Rate-Cut Shears Again --- Dow Industrials, Nasdaq, S&P Rise as Investors Wait for Signs Of Sustained Economic Recovery   BYBy E.S. Browning    WC947 words   PD25 June 2003   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGC1   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 2003, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LPSTOCKS WENT INTO waiting mode, with investors waiting for the Federal Reserve decision on interest rates today and, during the next few weeks, for some sign that profits and the U.S. economy truly have begun to recover.

The broad market bounced back slightly from Monday's 128-point decline in the Dow Jones Industrial Average: The industrials recovered 36.90 points, or 0.41%, to finish at 9109.85. The blue-chip average is up 9% since the year began and up 21% since it bottomed out March 11.
   TDTechnology stocks, however, were hit by a warning from chip maker Advanced Micro Devices Inc., which said sales are running behind target. The Nasdaq Composite Index, which includes many tech stocks although not AMD, fell 0.32%, or 5.14 points, to 1605.61 -- up 20% for the year and 26% since March 11.

"We have had a very powerful move here in the past few months. Now the challenge will be to hold this and to capitalize on it," said Andy Brooks, head of stock trading at Baltimore mutual-fund company T. Rowe Price Group Inc.

Traders and analysts widely expect the Fed to announce another cut in its target short-term interest rate when its meeting on monetary policy ends today. Its announcement is due in Washington about 2:15 p.m. Eastern time. The immediate debate is whether the Fed will cut its rate a quarter-point, to 1%, or half-point, to 0.75%.

Either move would leave the target rate at its lowest level in 45 years. The Fed also is expected to issue a statement suggesting the economy slowly is improving and that officials remain determined to continue using the tools at their disposal to stimulate the economy and stave off deflation.

In anticipation of a rate cut, Treasury bonds jumped in value, and yields, which decline when bond prices rise, fell close to 45-year lows.

Some investors say that, as long as the Fed doesn't come out with any big surprises, they are starting to look past the Fed news for signs of actual improvement in the economy and business performance. In some ways, these investors say, it matters relatively little how much the Fed cuts rates.

What really matters to them is whether the Fed's previous 12 rate cuts are starting to have impact. Any rate cut today would be the first since November. It typically takes six to nine months for a change in target rates to affect the economy, and the Fed has suggested this rate cut would be more of an insurance policy than anything else.

"What is key is that they release a statement that suggests that they see things continuing to improve but remain vigilant," said Jeffrey Kleintop, chief investment strategist at PNC Advisors, the investment-advisory unit of Pittsburgh's PNC Financial Services Group Inc. Any substantial departure from that theme could cause a sharp market move, he said.

Many money managers are turning their attention to corporate announcements of second-quarter results, due next month. Investors will be looking for some indication the mild improvement seen during the first quarter is continuing.

The worry among money managers is that, given how much stocks have risen, it will take more good news to sustain the rally. Some professionals are selling some of their winners in an effort to lock in gains before reporting their portfolios' quarterly performance at month's end.

"Institutional interest in the market is waning," said John O'Donoghue, senior stock trader at New York brokerage firm Credit Suisse First Boston. "A lot of money managers are probably surprised at how far the market has come this year." They just want to get past the Fed announcement and past quarter's end, he said.

For a second consecutive day, the broad Standard &Poor's 500-stock index fell intraday to a point near the 975 level from which it has rebounded in the past. To investors' relief, it rebounded again, finishing the day ahead 0.18%, or 1.81 points, at 983.45, up almost 12% since the year began.

Investors received reassuring news that the Conference Board's consumer-confidence index basically was unchanged in June, which was slightly better than expected. Earlier this month, the University of Michigan's consumer-sentiment index had fallen.

But investors also received bad news that FedEx Corp.'s June business volume is running below company forecasts, although FedEx continues to see improvement during the second half.

Outside the U.S., stocks declined in dollar terms. The Dow Jones World Stock Index, excluding U.S. stocks, fell 1.18%, or 1.37 points, to 115.06.

In major U.S. market action:

Stock indexes were mixed. On the Big Board, where 1.39 billion shares traded, 1,729 stocks rose and 1,527 fell.

Bonds gained. The 10-year Treasury note rose 16/32, or $5 for each $1,000 invested. The yield, which moves inversely to price, fell to 3.256%. The 30-year bond was up 1 8/32 to yield 4.334%.

The dollar strengthened. Late in New York, it traded at 117.92 yen, from 117.66, while the euro fell against the dollar to $1.1517 from $1.1545.

(See related article: "Credit Markets: Bond Market Awaits Fed's Move On Interest Rates, With Traders Expecting a Cut but Split on Size" -- WSJ June 25, 2003) 

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   COamd : Advanced Micro Devices Inc   INi3302 : Computers/Electronics | i34531 : Semiconductors | ielec : Electronics   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpersf : Personal Finance | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | gvexe : Executive Branch | gvtre : Treasury Department | m11 : Equity Markets | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | m131 : Money Markets | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | mntdbt : National Government Debt/Bond Markets | ncat : Content Types | nsum : News Digest   REasiaz : Asia | easiaz : Eastern Asia | eecz : European Union Countries | jap : Japan | namz : North America | usa : United States   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument j000000020030625dz6p0001u  



 CLMCredit Markets   HDThe Fed Sharpens Rate-Cut Shears Again --- Bond Market Awaits Fed's Move On Interest Rates, With Traders Expecting a Cut but Split on Size   BYBy Aaron Lucchetti    WC1,475 words   PD25 June 2003   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGC1   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 2003, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   CXCorrections &Amplifications

IN GENERAL MOTORS Corp.'s pending debt sales, the dollar-denominated tranches are lead-managed by Citigroup, Merrill Lynch and Morgan Stanley. The euro-denominated tranches are lead-managed by BNP Paribas, Deutsche Bank and Morgan Stanley. The General Motors Acceptance Corp. dollar-denominated bond offering is lead-managed by Bank of America, J.P. Morgan and Morgan Stanley. Lead managers on GMAC's euro-denominated notes are Deutsche Bank, Lehman Brothers and Merrill Lynch. In yesterday's Credit Markets column, Deutsche Bank was omitted as a lead manager for euro-denominated notes being sold by General Motors. Goldman Sachs and Bank of America were incorrectly identified as lead managers in GM's issues. Deutsche Bank and Lehman Brothers were omitted as lead managers for euro-denominated notes being sold by GMAC.

(WSJ June 26, 2003) 
   LPTHE FEDERAL RESERVE speaks today, and the bond market anxiously awaits the latest word on interest rates and the economy.

Wall Street widely believes the Fed will cut short-term interest rates, but late yesterday traders continued to bicker over how far the Fed will move, with the market split between favoring a quarter-point cut, as opposed to a more aggressive half-point move. Along with the rate move, investors and traders are keenly anticipating what the Fed will say about the economy, the prospects for deflation and any future rate moves.
   TDThe Fed's Federal Open Market Committee concludes a two-day meeting today, with any interest-rate news and an accompanying statement expected at about 2:15 p.m. EDT. The federal-funds rate, or the rate the Fed charges for overnight bank loans, stands at 1.25%, its lowest level in 42 years.

"This is certainly a Fed meeting in which the market has an intense interest," says Peter Hooper, Deutsche Bank's chief U.S. economist and a former Fed official. Mr. Hooper says he expects the Fed to pursue the more incremental approach of a quarter-point cut with a statement similar to the one released after its most-recent meeting May 6. At that time, the Fed left rates unchanged but warned that the risks of falling prices were greater than the risks of rising prices.

Since that pivotal May announcement, the stock market has rallied, bond yields have moved still lower and some economic barometers such as industrial production and retail sales have showed signs of life. The Fed, seeing this, will likely pursue the same course, says Mr. Hooper. "Don't mess with success," he says.

That view is hardly a consensus on the Street. In a Dow Jones/CNBC survey of the 22 primary dealers in U.S. Treasurys yesterday, 12 predicted a half-point cut, and 10 predicted a quarter-point cut. That consensus is little changed from last week, despite major news articles in the Washington Post (read by traders as favoring a half-point move) and The Wall Street Journal (read by traders as favoring a quarter-point move).

Because of the uncertainty about the magnitude of the Fed move, expectations for short-term rates will likely snap one way or the other based on the size of the expected move. In some less-eventful Fed meetings of the past, the market had effectively priced in expectations and little movement occurred after an anticlimactic announcement.

Longer-term Treasurys, such as the benchmark 10-year note, are more likely to take their direction from the Fed's statement, economists say. If the Fed conveys it is less worried about deflation and falling prices than it was last month, bond prices could sell off because many would view the Fed as finished cutting for now. However, if the Fed continues a bias toward easing rates or spurring more economic growth, longer-term bonds are more likely to rally because it indicates the Fed remains concerned about the economy and the lack of pricing power in the economy.

"It depends how they sell the move," says J.P. Morgan Chase economist James Glassman. If the Fed looks like it has used up its conventional options -- cutting interest rates -- traders may bid up longer-term Treasurys in anticipation of more unconventional Fed purchases of longer-term debt. While that outcome still seems remote to many traders, it could still affect prices if it looks like a better possibility after today's meeting.

If the Fed underscores that the threat of deflation is remote and seems optimistic that today's expected rate cut should be more than enough medicine for the economy, bonds may slip, Mr. Glassman says.

In late-afternoon trading, Treasurys rallied in front of the Fed meeting after staying flat for much of the day. The benchmark 10-year note was up 16/32 point, or $5 per $1,000 face value, at 103 3/32. The yield on the note, which moves in the opposite direction of the price, fell to 3.26% from 3.32%. The 30-year bond's price rose 1 8/32 to 116 22/32 to yield 4.33%, down from 4.41% Monday. 


                    AUCTION RESULTS
  Here are the results of the Treasury auction of four-week bills. All
bids are awarded at a single price at the market-clearing yield. Rates
are determined by the difference between that price and the face value.
Applications .............................. $30,948,022,000
Accepted bids ............................. $12,000,174,000
Accepted noncompetitively ................. $54,099,000
Accepted frgn noncomp ..................... $0
Auction price (Rate) ...................... 99.938 (0.800%)
Coupon equivalent ......................... 0.811%
Bids at market-clearing yld accepted ...... 99.04%
Cusip number .............................. 912795NE7
  The bills are dated June 26, 2003, and mature July 24, 2003.


Corporate and Junk Bonds

Preliminary terms emerged for debt to be sold soon by General Motors Corp. and its General Motors Acceptance unit as part of a total $13 billion offering.

Investors expect yields to be attractive. "This is a very large deal for GM and for the market," said Cindy Cole, portfolio manager at National City Investment Management Co., which has $5.5 billion under management. "Everybody wants to make sure that this is placed appropriately."

GM is expected to sell several dollar-denominated parts, including 10-year securities yielding about four percentage points over Treasurys. A 20-year part is expected to yield 4 to 4.125 points over Treasurys, and a 30-year maturity is seen at a yield margin of 4.125 to 4.25 points over Treasurys. Late yesterday, orders for those three portions totaled about $9.2 billion.

The company's 7.20% issue due 2011 was quoted at about 3.70 percentage points over Treasurys. GM is rated Baa-1 by Moody's Investors Service Inc. and triple-B by Standard &Poor's, with negative outlooks from both.

GMAC's three-year, dollar-denominated securities are seen yielding 3 to 3.125 percentage points over Treasurys. GMAC is rated single-A-3 by Moody's and triple-B by S&P.

GM and GMAC are expected to sell euro-denominated debt also. Morgan Stanley, Merrill Lynch, Citigroup, J.P. Morgan, Bank of America and Goldman Sachs are leading GM's issues, while Morgan Stanley, J.P. Morgan, Bank of America, Bank One and Bear Stearns are bookrunners for GMAC.

Foreign Bonds

United Overseas Bank Ltd. sold $1 billion of 10-year global securities, the first international debt sale from an issuer in Singapore in nearly two years.

Strong demand enabled United Overseas to double the issue size from an initial $500 million and cut the yield margin over U.S. Treasurys to 1.17 percentage points from 1.25 points.

Orders totaled more than $5 billion, said Neil Shuttleworth, head of debt syndicate at Deutsche Bank, lead manager with Merrill Lynch.

The relatively higher yield offered by the subordinated issue was cited as a key reason for the interest. Investors are looking for a combination of good credit quality and yields above those of senior debt, said Bernard Peh, an analyst at Barclays Capital in Hong Kong.

Moody's assigned a double-A-3 rating to United Overseas' issue. Standard &Poor's rated it single-A-minus.

Global bond deals by banks and companies in Singapore -- the only Asian nation with a top triple-A-rating -- are infrequent. The previous one was a $2.3 billion deal by Singapore Telecommunications Ltd. in late 2001.

---

Michael S. Derby, Richard A. Bravo and Netty Ismail contributed to this article.

(See related article: "Tuesday's Markets: Dow Industrials, Nasdaq, S&P Rise as Investors Wait for Signs Of Sustained Economic Recovery" -- WSJ June 25, 2003) 

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   COgnmoc : General Motors Company | uob : United Overseas Bank Limited   INi351 : Motor Vehicles | i35101 : Passenger Cars | i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | iaut : Automobiles | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSc17 : Funding/Capital | c172 : Corporate Debt Instruments | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpersf : Personal Finance | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | gvexe : Executive Branch | gvtre : Treasury Department | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | m131 : Money Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | mntdbt : National Government Debt/Bond Markets | ncat : Content Types | ncrx : Corrected Items   REasiaz : Asia | namz : North America | seasiaz : Southeast Asia | singp : Singapore | usa : United States | usc : Midwest U.S. | usmi : Michigan   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument j000000020030625dz6p0001j  



 HDFed keeps markets guessing on rate cut.   BYBy ALAN BEATTIE.    WC153 words   PD25 June 2003   SNFinancial Times   SCFTFT   PG6   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2003 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPFinancial markets remained divided over the size of the interest rate cut the Federal Reserve is expected to announce today as the latest data continued to paint a mixed picture of the economic outlook.

Consumer confidence figures released yesterday gave some hope that the plunge in sentiment recorded by a rival measure was overdone.
   TDThe Conference Board consumer survey in June showed confidence slipping only a fraction. Wall Street had been expecting a bigger fall following a steep drop in the University of Michigan consumer sentiment survey.

The internal forecast presented to Fed policymakers at this week's meeting is likely to show real economic growth picking up later in the year, although most probably not the rapid acceleration in the third quarter projected by many Wall Street economists.Alan Beattie, Washington Editorial Comment, Page 12 www.ft.com/useconomy

US Edition 2. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPCUS Edition 2 | WORLD NEWS | Consumer Issues | Economic Indicators | Economic News | Government News | Interest Rates | Federal Reserve USA | United States of America | Americas | North America | Pacific Rim   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument ftft000020030625dz6p0007m  



 HDFed keeps markets guessing on rate cut.   BYBy ALAN BEATTIE.    WC308 words   PD25 June 2003   SNFinancial Times   SCFTFT   PG1   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2003 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPFinancial markets remained divided over the size of the interest rate cut the Federal Reserve is expected to announce today as the latest data continued to paint a mixed picture of the economic outlook.

Consumer confidence figures released yesterday gave some hope that the plunge in sentiment recorded by a rival measure was overdone.
   TDThe Conference Board consumer survey in June showed confidence slipping only a fraction. Wall Street had been expecting a bigger fall following a steep drop in the University of Michigan consumer sentiment survey.

The Fed does not place great stock in either measure, although it regards the Michigan as the more informative of the two.

The internal forecast presented to Fed policymakers at this week's meeting is likely to show real economic growth picking up later in the year, although most probably not the rapid acceleration in the third quarter projected by many Wall Street economists.

With investors ambivalent about today's decision - futures prices yesterday were equally divided between a quarter-and a half-point cut - the immediate market reaction to the Fed announcement could be driven by the size of the reduction.

But economists said that over a longer period the market was likely to focus on how much of an implied or explicit commitment the Fed gave to keeping interest rates low in the future.

Neal Soss, chief US economist at CSFB in New York, said market reaction over the next few months would show how effective the Fed had been.

"The Fed has told the markets: we are going to keep rates low, so don't be afraid to buy risky assets," he said. "In that context, what the market does becomes a referendum on its communication skills." Editorial Comment, Page 12 www.ft.com/useconomy

US Edition 1. 
   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REeecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | weurz : Western Europe   IPCUS Edition 1 | FRONT PAGE - FIRST SECTION | Economic Indicators | Economic News | Interest Rates | Federal Reserve USA | United States of America | Americas | North America | Pacific Rim   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument ftft000020030625dz6p0006q  



 HDFed keeps markets guessing on size of rate cut CONSUMER CONFIDENCE.   BYBy ALAN BEATTIE.    WC428 words   PD25 June 2003   SNFinancial Times   SCFTFT   PG9   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2003 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPFinancial markets remained divided over the size of the interest rate cut the Federal Reserve is expected to announce today as the latest data continued to paint a mixed picture of the economic outlook.

Consumer confidence figures were released yesterday that gave some hope that the plunge in sentiment recorded by a rival measure was overdone.
   TDThe Conference Board consumer survey in June showed confidence slipping only a fraction. Wall Street had been expecting a bigger fall following a steep drop in the rival University of Michigan consumer sentiment survey.

The Fed does not place great stock in either measure, although it regards the Michigan as the more informative of the two, and investors yesterday remained divided about the size of today's expected rate cut.

The internal forecast presented to Fed policymakers at this week's meeting is likely to show real economic growth picking up later in the year, although most probably not the rapid acceleration in the third quarter projected by many Wall Street economists. With investors ambivalent about today's decision - futures prices yesterday were equally divided between a quarter and a half-point cut - the immediate market reaction to the Fed announcement could be driven by the size of the reduction.

But economists said that over a longer period the market was likely to focus on how much of an implied or explicit commitment the Fed gave to keeping interest rates low into the future.

Neal Soss, chief US economist at CSFB in New York, said that the market reaction over the next few months would show how effective the Fed had been.

"The Fed has told the markets: we are going to keep rates low, so don't be afraid to buy risky assets," he said. "In that context, what the market does becomes a referendum on its communication skills." Bond yields have fallen sharply in recent months and equities, despite some wobbles over the past week, have regained very high valuations.

The two-year Treasury bond has been trading at or below the current overnight official interest rate of 1.25 per cent for some weeks, with investors expecting any substantial increase in interest rates to be pushed a long way into the future.

Mr Soss said that despite the rapid falls in longer-term bond yields in recent months, there was scope for them to fall further if the Fed's message was sufficiently clear. www.ft.com/usawww.ft.com/americas

London Edition 2. 
   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REeecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | weurz : Western Europe   IPCLondon Edition 2 | THE AMERICAS &INTERNATIONAL ECONOMY | Economic Indicators | Economic News | Interest Rates | Federal Reserve USA | United States of America | Americas | North America | Pacific Rim   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument ftft000020030625dz6p00058  



 HDFed decision dominates sentiment ahead of US open.   BYBy ANDREI POSTELINICU IN NEW YORK AND GORDON SMITH IN LONDON.    WC477 words   PD25 June 2003   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2003 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPWall Street looked set for a mildly positive open on Wednesday but all eyes were on the Federal Reserve's monetary policy committee decision on interest rates due later in the session.

The markets are expecting a cut in the price of borrowing, but opinions are fiercely divided over its size. Both a 25 and a 50 basis point cut are possibilities.
   TDRory Robertson, interest rate strategist at Macquarie Equities in New York, thinks a 50bp cut is likely: "Strong US economic growth is still visible only in forecasts; the hard monthly data so far are consistent with nothing more upbeat than further sluggish growth."

Rob Carnell, senior economist from Commonwealth Research, also called for a 50 basis point cut from the Fed to extinguish the threat of deflation: "If the Fed really does want to draw a line under deflation, and is prepared to accept some bond market weakness as a result, then a 25bp cut will surely not be adequate."

But Mitul Kotecha at Credit Agricole Indosuez predicted a more cautious move from the US central bank: "With inflation remaining subdued, the Fed will see a low cost in a small 'insurance' cut, whilst leaving the door open for more, should there be a relapse in the economy or renewed concerns over deflation."

With two hours of futures trading remaining stocks were looking at a flat open but the technology sector could see a mild bounce after four days of straight losses. The Dow Jones Industrial futures were unchanged while the S&P 500 futures contract was up just 0.2 points. The tech-leaning Nasdaq futures were 2 points stronger.

Hopes for further signs that the US economy is recovering should be provided at 1230 GMT with the release of the monthly durable goods orders. The data, which measure demand for goods that last three years or longer, is expected to bounce back from April's steep fall. Credit Agricole Indosuez is forecasting a 1 per cent month-on-month rise from April's level of $163.93n.

In corporate news Verity, the software company, could be a leading faller out of the gate on Wednesday after posting weaker-than-expected quarterly results after the bell on Tuesday.

The second-quarter earnings season continues with results in the financial, food and retail sector.

Notably, Goldman Sachs, the Wall Street investment bank, is expected to report earnings per share of $1.19. Financial stocks have been hurt by lower demand for their products and services the abysmal market climate.

Among food stocks, General Mills, best known for its breakfast cereals, is expected to report 63 cents in earnings per share. Family Dollar, the discount retailer, is expected to report 40 cents in earnings per share. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m11 : Equity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPCEconomic Indicators | Economic News | Interest Rates | Federal Reserve USA   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument ftcom00020030626dz6p00070  



 HDFed Chooses Moderate Easing Course,Sends More Hopeful Message.     WC1,332 words   PD25 June 2003   ET22:43   SNMarket News International   SCMARNEW   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2003. Market News International, Inc.  
   LP- FOMC Leaves Options Open For More Easing, But Less Stridently  

By Steven K. Beckner  
   TDWASHINGTON (MktNews) - The Federal Reserve ended one of the most hotly contested debates over its policies in years Wednesday by announcing a 25 basis point cut in the federal funds rate, disappointing those who had called for a 50 basis point move.  

Neither the tone of recent economic data nor the tone of Fed rhetoric suggested the Fed's policymaking Federal Open Market Committee was likely to move aggressively, as Market News International has been reporting for three weeks. And indeed, the FOMC chose a more moderate course.  

The committee voted 11 to 1 to reduce the federal funds rate from 1.25% to 1%, with San Francisco Fed President Robert Parry dissenting in favor of a reduction to 0.75%.  

It was the Fed's 13th rate cut in the last 2 1/2 years and took the rate to its lowest level since 1958.  

In a carefully nuanced rate statement, the Fed signaled that it remains ready to ease again if the economy does not continue to improve but seemingly took a step in a more optimistic direction in they way it sees the economic outlook, perhaps not wanting to hurt market or public psychology by sounding overly concerned about deflation.  

There are interesting contrasts to the latest rate announcement and the one issued following the May 6 meeting. In May, the Fed explained its decision to leave the federal funds rate at 1.25% but to tilt toward a possible future rate cut in a first-of-its-kind, bifurcated statement that differentiated between the balance of purely economic risks and the risks to price stability.  

"Recent readings on production and employment, though mostly reflecting decisions made before the conclusion of hostilities, have proven disappointing," the May statement said. "However, the ebbing of geopolitical tensions has rolled back oil prices, bolstered consumer confidence, and strengthened debt and equity markets."  

"These developments, along with the accommodative stance of monetary policy and ongoing growth in productivity, should foster an improving economic climate over time," the May statement continued.  

The May Fed rate announcement went on to say that "although the timing and extent of that improvement remain uncertain, the Committee perceives that over the next few quarters the upside and downside risks to the attainment of sustainable growth are roughly equal."  

But the Fed then took a much less cheerful view of the outlook for prices. "In contrast, over the same period, the probability of an unwelcome substantial fall in inflation, though minor, exceeds that of a pickup in inflation from its already low level," the May statement said, adding, "The Committee believes that, taken together, the balance of risks to achieving its goals is weighted toward weakness over the foreseeable future."  

The FOMC retained that basic formula following its mid-year meeting but with some notable changes. Gone, for example, was the last sentence about the risks being "weighted toward weakness over the foreseeable future."  

The FOMC continued to leave the door open to possible future rate cuts but seemingly softened its easing bias, perhaps considerably, with this final paragraph from the June statement: "The Committee perceives that the upside and downside risks to the attainment of sustainable growth for the next few quarters are roughly equal. In contrast, the probability, though minor, of an unwelcome substantial fall in inflation exceeds that of a pickup in inflation from its already low level. On balance, the Committee believes that the latter concern is likely to predominate for the foreseeable future."  

That language was proceeded by a paragraph that sounded distinctly more upbeat in describing the economy's growth prospects.  

After restating its belief that "an accommodative stance of monetary policy, coupled with still robust underlying growth in productivity, is providing important ongoing support to economic activity," the Fed added, "recent signs point to a firming in spending, markedly improved financial conditions, and labor and product markets that are stabilizing."  

The FOMC was clearly encouraged by recent economic indicators but not encouraged enough to stay on hold. As it went on to say, "The economy, nonetheless, has yet to exhibit sustainable growth. With inflationary expectations subdued, the Committee judged that a slightly more expansive monetary policy would add further support for an economy which it expects to improve over time."  

Stuart Hoffman, chief economist for PNC Financial Services Group, said he was struck by the statement's reference to "firming in spending" and improved financial conditions "and even some stabilizing in labor markets." It was those impressions that led the FOMC to ease by 25 rather than 50 basis points, he said.  

Hoffman, who had predicted a 25 basis point cut, called it "a prudent compromise move."  

He said the FOMC's easing bias is now "more implicit than explicit" and represents "the Fed's way of saying 'there's no way we're increasing interest rates any time in the foreseeable future." He doubted the Fed will need to act on the easing bias.  

"I think they're done, and I think they think they're done," said Hoffman, "but never say never."  

Peter Kretzmer, senior economist for Bank of America, said the Fed "exhibited its customary caution, and I think that's good at a time when the markets were just so rife with rumors and expectations about what it might do in this situation."  

Kretzmer, who had also anticipated a 25 basis point rate cut, said a larger move could have sent "the wrong signal" and praised the FOMC for taking "a rather conservative route."  

"They didn't buy into arguments that they had to do 50 to 'clear the air,'" he added.  

Kretzmer said the FOMC was encouraged enough by recent economic and financial developments to restrain its easing but "left themselves room to go further if conditions don't continue to improve."  

Kretzmer doubted the Fed will need to ease again, because he expects "gradual improvement" in the economy. But he said if the economy does not pick up momentum, another move could come at the September FOMC meeting.  

Jim Glassman, senior U.S. economist at JP Morgan Chase, had predicted a 50 basis point cut - not, he said, because he thought 50 was needed but because he thought the Fed's rhetoric about deflation suggested the need for a 50.  

But Glassman wasn't carping about the Fed's more "cautious" move.  

"Who can complain about a funds rate of 1%," Glassman said. "25 or 50, what's the difference really?"  

Lehman Brothers economist Drew Matus wrote, "While we believe that the Fed is now done cutting rates, we continue to believe that should they find it necessary, they could continue to cut the Fed funds rate further before implementing any sort of unconventional policy. Our research suggests that the Fed could cut the fed funds rate to 25 basis points before creating large-scale dis-intermediation."  

Wells-Fargo chief economist Sung Won Sohn wrote, "By cutting the interest rate by a quarter rather than half a point, the central bank is sending a couple of messages."  

"First, the massive economic stimuli emanating from previous cuts in the interest rate, the Bush tax cuts and a weaker dollar should perk up economic growth in the future," said Sohn. "Second, it does not want to fan deflation psychology by telling the world that the economic outlook is so dire that the interest rate has to be cut by half a point."  

Meanwhile, the National Association of Manufacturers welcomed the rate cut. President Jerry Jasinowski said the reduction to 1% and accompanying statement "make it clear the Fed is determined to ignite a healthy recovery."  

Jasinowski also praised the rate cut because it "should put additional downward pressure on the dollar" and help the international competitiveness of NAM member companies.  

** Market News International Washington Bureau: (202) 371-2121 **  

[TOPICS: M$U $ $$,MMUFE$,MGU $ $$,MFU $ $$,MT $ $ $$].   
   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCWASHINGTON   PUBMarket News International, Inc.   ANDocument MARNEW0020030625dz6p003zd  



 HDNY FX - Dlr Hovers Near Lows - FOMC Rate Announcement Looms.     WC725 words   PD25 June 2003   ET18:12   SNMarket News International   SCMARNEW   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2003. Market News International, Inc.  
   LPNEW YORK, June 25 (MktNews) - The dollar hovered near the day's lows vs. most majors midday Wednesday ahead of the Federal Reserve's afternoon announcement on U.S. interest rate policy.  

The euro-dollar was trading at $1.1594 at 12:00 p.m. EDT, near the highs of the day and up from overnight lows at $1.1498.  
   TDDollar-yen was trading at Y117.53 and dollar-Swiss at Chf1.3257, up from a morning dip to Y117.35/40 and CHf1.3240/45.  

The U.S. Federal Reserve Bank is widely expected to lower the overnight Fed funds rate at its Federal Open Market Committee meeting, but opinions vary on whether the cut will be 25 basis points or 50 basis points, traders said.  

While a 25 basis point ease with a neutral bias would be considered dollar bullish and a 50 basis point ease with the mention of "unconventional" monetary policy tools dollar bearish, it is hard to assess the dollar impact of other possible interest rate outcomes, they added.  

Michael Woolfolk, head of North American research at Bank of New York, looked for the Fed to go with the 25 basis point ease rather than risk the ramifications of a larger cut.  

"The closer we get to zero in the Fed funds rate, the more concern there is at the Fed and financial markets of the risk to money market accounts," he said.  

With day to day money market rates already sporting a "0" handle, a 50 basis point ease would offer even less incentive for investors to hold money market instruments, Woolfolk said.  

Instead, Greenspan will try to walk a delicate balance of trying to keep the economy moving forward without ringing alarm bells about future dangers, he said.  

"There is a desire to create a state of suspended animation as we go into the summer doldrums," Woolfolk observed.  

A 50 basis point cut would mean that the Fed decided to take one last insurance policy against the remote possibility of deflation, and would suggest an end to the Fed's easing cycle, he said.  

"This would spell an end to the rally in the U.S. bond market and could have negative consequences for the dollar," Woolfolk added.  

FX traders continued to debate potential dollar reaction, maintaining that much will depend on the outstanding positions, especially in the euro-dollar and euro crosses.  

Medium-term players appear to be content to hold euro longs until $1.1370/$1.1400 breaks and longer term players will not bail out unless the pivot zone at $1.1084 gives way, traders said.  

Short-term positions may drive the euro initially after the Fed announcement, and if key technical supports/resistances are broken, an extension of the trend, in either direction could be seen, they added.  

One U.S. corporate strategist said one of his accounts took profit on a long-term euro long at $1.1800 and is now content to sit sidelined for the summer.  

Another account has squared 70 percent of his euro long and will also wait until fall to make any additional changes, he added.  

Another strategist saw short-term speculators buying the euro on the dip below $1.1500 on Tuesday, and expects to see mild euro profit-taking on any rally.  

A break over $1.1740 would cement a retest of the $1.1930 highs, while a break below $1.1400 could prompt the first wave of medium term accounts to bail out of euro longs.  

"The playing field is pretty level going into this number," observed one U.S. trader.  

Vicki Schmelzer, phone (212)669-6438;e-mail vschmelzer@marketnews.com  

Dollar Rates in New York Trade:   


 
                    Eur-Dlr   Dlr-Yen   Eur-Yen   Stg-Dlr   Dlr-Swiss
 
11:53 a.m.          1.1590    117.55    136.24    1.6773    1.3258
11:13 a.m.          1.1567    117.57    135.99    1.6745    1.3277
 9:03 a.m.          1.1572    117.45    135.91    1.6740    1.3252
 8:33 a.m.          1.1570    117.38    135.81    1.6739    1.3245
 7:36 a.m.   Wed    1.1536    117.56    135.62    1.6708    1.3283
 4:00 p.m.   Tue    1.1517    117.92    135.81    1.6641    1.3282.
  
   CObnyc : The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   INi814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCNEW YORK   PUBMarket News International, Inc.   ANDocument MARNEW0020030625dz6p003yb  



 HD What the Fed's Rate Cut Means    BY By EILEEN ALT POWELL    CRAP Business Writer   WC645 words   PD25 June 2003   SNAP Online   SCASP   LAEnglish   CY Copyright 2003 The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved. 
   LP NEW YORK (AP) - The Federal Reserve's decision Wednesday to cut a key interest rate to just 1 percent - the lowest level in 45 years - is intended to help the economy by reducing the cost of borrowing for both consumers and businesses. But savers will find it even harder to get decent returns on their money, and the option for future cuts shrinks as rates get close to zero. 

 Some questions and answers about the Fed rate cut: 
   TD Q: How much more can the Fed cut interest rates? 

 A: Not more than another half of a percentage point, said Sung Won Sohn, chief economist for Wells Fargo & Co. 

 "They don't want to be in a position where they have no option if the economy stumbles," Sohn said. "If the federal funds rate - cut on Wednesday to 1 percent - was to go to zero, the market would say, 'We have an emperor with no clothes.' And the Fed doesn't want that." 

 Q: So what will the Federal Open Market Committee do next? 

 A: "They will probably use a lot more open mouth policy," Sohn said. "They'll try to jawbone market expectations as opposed to simply cutting interest rates down to zero." 

 Q: How will the latest rate cut affect the economy? 

 A: The stock market has improved and interest rates have softened in recent weeks in anticipation of the Fed action, economists said. 

 David H. Resler, chief economist at Nomura Securities, said the Fed's move Wednesday "will ensure that the gains from the rate declines we've seen over the last month have an opportunity to filter into the economy." 

 In addition, the Fed is making it clear that it will maintain an expansive monetary policy as it keeps watch against deflationary pressures, he noted. 

 "That's an important message for the markets to hear," Resler said. "Just a year ago, the Fed sent a signal to the marketplace that it was ready to tighten, even though there wasn't a clear case to be made that the recovery was firmly in train. I think the Fed learned a lesson." 

 Q: Could lower rates actually hurt the economy at some point? 

 A: Both Sohn and Resler said there was concern that mutual funds could get squeezed. 

 "There's a point where the absolute level of rates is so low, and the investment opportunities for the (fund) managers so limited in their potential return, that they're not earning enough to cover their costs," Resler said. 

 Sohn added that a federal funds rate of 0.5 percent would set off "a significant outflow of money" from money market mutual funds. That, in turn, would hurt corporations and small businesses that want to sell commercial paper to finance short-term needs, because money market funds are primary purchasers of these instruments. 

 Q: What does the Fed's latest move mean to consumers? 

 A: The Fed obviously wants consumers to keep spending, and low interest rates both discourage saving and encourage borrowing for things like homes and cars. 

 In addition, the Fed also is signaling that it wants investors back in the stock market, said Paul Kochis, Philadelphia regional president for Mellon Private Wealth Management. 

 "The rate cut is evidence that there is a price to pay for investors staying on the sideline," he said. "With rates on money markets at a 40-year low, if you stay on the sidelines with cash, it's going to be painful." 

 The alternatives, Kochis said, include paying down high-interest debt or getting into the equity markets. 

 "It's also good news for taxpayers," he added. "The rate cut provides marginal help in financing the deficits at the state, local and federal levels. That's positive." 
   RFAP-Fed-Q&A; D7RT19S80   COnwbc : Wells Fargo & Company   INi814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | m131 : Money Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States | use : Northeast U.S. | usny : New York   IPC1310   IPDFinancial/Business | General Financial/Business News   ANDocument asp0000020030625dz6p00jwp  



 HD Fed cut key  interest rate  by one-quarter point    BY By JEANNINE AVERSA    CRAssociated Press Writer   WC813 words   PD25 June 2003   ET13:27   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY Copyright 2003.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved. 
   LP WASHINGTON (AP) - The Federal Reserve cut a key short-term interest rate Wednesday by a one-quarter percentage point to its lowest level in 45 years. The aim is to energize consumer spending and business investment and help the economy snap out of a funk. 

 Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan and his Federal Open Market Committee colleagues reduced the federal funds rate from 1.25 percent to 1 percent, the lowest level since 1958. 
   TD The funds rate - the interest banks charge each other on overnight loans - is the Fed's main lever for influencing the economy. 

 The vote was 11-1 with Fed member Robert Parry dissenting. He favored a larger, half-point reduction in the funds rate. 

 The action marks the first reduction to the funds rate since November and the 13th since January 2001, when the Fed embarked on an aggressive rate-cutting campaign to rescue the economy from a developing recession and the fallout from the Sept. 11 terror attacks. 

 With the lowering of the funds rate on Wednesday, commercial banks were expected to cut their prime lending rates - the benchmark for many consumer and small-business loans - by a similar quarter point, from the current rate of 4.25 percent to 4 percent, the lowest level since May 15, 1959 

 "The economy ... has yet to exhibit sustainable growth," the Fed said in a statement. "The committee judged that a slightly more expansive monetary policy would add further support for an economy which it expects to improve over time." 

 The Fed's next meeting is Aug. 12. 

 "Fed policy-makers are sending a message that the economy seems to be leveling out and conditions are in place for better economic performance in the coming months," said Lynn Reaser, chief economist at Banc of America Capital Management. "They are providing one additional nudge to help achieve that growth." 

 Reaser said that if the economy were to weaken, the Fed wouldn't hesitate to reduce rates again at the August meeting, but she said she didn't believe that would turn out to be the case. 

 Economists say a reduction in the funds rate also helps ward off the economically dangerous threat of deflation, a widespread decline in prices, something that could emerge from a stagnant economy. 

 "The probability, though minor, of an unwelcome substantial fall in inflation exceeds that of a pickup in inflation from its already low level," the Fed said Wednesday. 

 Although Greenspan and his colleagues say the chance of deflation is remote, the central bank still must be alert because of deflation's potential to wreck the economy, analysts say. Fed policy-makers raised the specter of deflation at their last meeting on May 6. 

 The United States' last serious deflation occurred during the Great Depression. A bad case of deflation can lead not only to widespread price declines, from goods and services to real-estate and stocks, but also to job losses and pay cuts. 

 Wednesday's rate cut comes as the economy struggles to get back on firmer footing. 

 The quick, postwar economic boom that some economists had hoped for hasn't materialized. For the most part, businesses have been reluctant to ramp up capital spending and hiring, major factors holding back the economy's ability to return to full health. 

 Consumers, meanwhile, have been the main force keeping the economy afloat. Even they, however, have been more inclined to spend cautiously than to splurge amid the muddled economic climate and sluggish job market. 

 The economy grew at a mediocre 1.9 percent annual rate in the first three months of 2003. Economists don't believe the economy fared much better in the current April-June quarter and may have done worse. Forecasts of the second-quarter economic growth rate range from 1 percent to more than 2 percent. 

 The latest batch of economic reports released Wednesday morning highlighted the split personality of the economy's uneven recovery. Manufacturers saw demand for their products drop in May for the second straight month, while home sales soared, stoked by super low mortgage rates. 

 Still, economists are hopeful the economy will pick up more speed in the second half of this year, with some predicting a growth rate of around 4 percent. A new round of tax cuts signed into law by President George W. Bush last month should help on that front, analysts say. 

 Even so, economists aren't expecting a quick turnaround in the job market. The nation's unemployment rate climbed to a nine-year high of 6.1 percent in May as businesses cut 17,000 jobs. Depending on the strength of economic growth in coming quarters, the jobless rate could hover in that range or move higher, economists say. 

 ---- 

 On the Net: Federal Reserve: http://www.federalreserve.gov
   RFRush   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States | usdc : Washington DC | use : Northeast U.S.   IPCsldw2224 | selwstm- | tagwsfiler   IPDFinancial/Business | AP Worldstream | BC-NA-FIN-ECO--US-Fed-Interest Rates | 5621220ef9b1b2a4f56c5d996450cfe2   ANDocument aprs000020030625dz6p00k2e  



 HDUS slices key  interest rate  to 45-year low of 1.0 percent.     BYby David Williams     WC618 words   PD25 June 2003   SNAgence France Presse   SCAFPR   LAEnglish   CYCopyright Agence France-Presse, 2003 All reproduction and presentation rights reserved.  
   LP= (PICTURES)  

ATTENTION - ADDS stock market, analysis ///  
   TDFederal Reserve policymakers sliced the key US interest rate by a quarter point to a 45-year low of 1.0 percent Wednesday in a pre-emptive strike against the menace of deflation.  

Federal Reserve chairman Alan Greenspan and his colleagues cut the federal funds target rate, which commercial banks charge each other for overnight loans, to the lowest level since 1958.  

It was the 13th cut since January 2001.  

Though the risk of weak prices in the postwar economy was "minor", it overwhelmed any risk of inflation, policymakers said after a two-day meeting.  

The economy appeared to be turning in the right direction, they said, but it could still do with a boost.  

"Recent signs point to a firming in spending, markedly improved financial conditions, and labor and product markets that are stabilizing. The economy, nonetheless, has yet to exhibit sustainable growth," the Federal Open Market Committee said in a statement.  

"With inflationary expectations subdued, the committee judged that a slightly more expansive monetary policy would add further support for an economy which it expects to improve over time."  

The decision passed by 11 votes to one, with San Francisco Federal Reserve president Robert Parry calling instead for a bigger cut of half a percentage point.  

Low interest rates and improving productivity were boosting the economy, policymakers said.  

But the statement still dampened recent enthusiasm on Wall Street. The Dow Jones industrials average of 30 top stock fell 98.32 points, or 1.08 percent, to close at 9,011.53.  

"The committee perceives that the upside and downside risks to the attainment of sustainable growth for the next few quarters are roughly equal," the policymakers said.  

"In contrast, the probability, though minor, of an unwelcome substantial fall in inflation exceeds that of a pickup in inflation from its already low level. On balance, the committee believes that the latter concern is likely to predominate for the foreseeable future."  

The statement all but ruled out a U-turn on rates until the Federal Resere has eliminated risk of deflation, which can damage an economy by pressuring people to postpone buying until prices fall further and by raising real interest rates.  

As the Federal Reserve wrapped up the talks, fresh data showed a red-hot housing market but stumbling manufacturing sector, further evidence of the economy's uneven performance since the Iraq war.  

US new home sales soared 12.5 percent to a record-high annualized pace of 1.16 million in May, the government said.  

For existing homes, sales surged 1.2 percent to an annual rate of 5.92 million homes in May, the third-largest total on record, according to the National Association of Realtors.  

But new orders to factories for big-ticket items such as planes, cars and washing machines dropped 0.3 percent to 168.3 billion dollars, compounding a 2.4 percent slump in April.  

The sagging US labor market also has cast a cloud, after latest data showed the unemployment rate at a nine-year high of 6.1 percent in May.  

Many economists are forecasting tepid second quarter economic growth, with a substantial acceleration only expected in the second half of this year.  

The economy grew at an annualized rate of 1.4 percent in the last quarter of 2002 and at a 1.9-percent pace in the first quarter of 2003, government figures showed.  

US producer prices, a measure of wholesale inflation, fell 0.3 percent in May when compared to April but consumer prices, the prices charged in the stores, were unchanged.  

djw/mk.  
   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPC20030625:211400-TX-BRJ34 | US | economy | rates sched | lead   PUBAgence France Presse   ANDocument AFPR000020030625dz6p001s6  



 HDChronology of falling US interest rates.     WC507 words   PD25 June 2003   SNAgence France Presse   SCAFPR   LAEnglish   CYCopyright Agence France-Presse, 2003 All reproduction and presentation rights reserved.  
   LPChronology of the 13 interest rate cuts by the United States since January 2001.  

January 3, 2001: Federal Open Market Committee lowers the federal funds rate by half a percentage point to 6.0 percent. Committee highlights "weakening of sales and production" in the context of lower consumer confidence.  
   TDJanuary 31, 2001: Key rate reduced to 5.5 percent. "Consumer and business confidence has eroded further," the Fed said, "exacerbated by rising energy costs that continue to drain consumer purchasing power and press on business profit margins."  

March 20, 2001: The Fed cuts rate by another half of a percentage point to 5.0 percent. The Fed highlights reduced investment, consumption and a weak global economy.  

April 18, 2001: The main rate cut by 50 basis points to 4.5 percent. The Fed cites persisting weakness in productivity and consumer spending.  

May 15, 2001: US central bank cuts interest rate to 4.0 percent in a new bid to boost flagging economy. The Fed says there is "considerable uncertainty about the business outlook."  

June 27, 2001: Main rate cut by quarter of a percentage point to 3.75 percent. The central bank warns that "declining profitability and business capital spending, weak expansion of consumption, and slowing growth abroad, continue to weigh on the economy."  

August 21, 2001: The Fed cuts another 25 basis points to take its main interest rate to 3.5 percent amidst persistent fears over the economy. "Business profits and capital spending continue to weaken and growth abroad is slowing, weighing on the US economy," said the central bank.  

September 17, 2001: The Federal Reserve cuts by 50 basis points to take the key rate to 3.0 percent in an emergency move after the September 11 attacks on New York and Washington rattle financial markets and the economy.  

October 2, 2001: The Fed takes another half a percentage point off the main rate, now 2.5 percent, saying: "The terrorist attacks have significantly heightened uncertainty in an economy that was already weak."  

November 6, 2001: The federal funds target rate is cut to 2.0 percent saying "Heightened uncertainty and concerns about a deterioration in business conditions both here and abroad are damping economic activity."  

December 11, 2001: The Federal Open Market Committee lowers its key rate by 25 basis points to 1.75 percent. It says "weakness in demand shows signs of abating, but those signs are preliminary and tentative."  

November 6, 2002: After almost a year of unchanged rates, the Fed sees signs of new weakness and cuts the interest rate to 1.25 percent. A looming conflict with Iraq is weighing heavily on confidence.  

June 25, 2003: Policymakers slice the key rate by a quarter point to a 45-year low of 1.0 percent in a pre-emptive strike against the chokehold of deflation. "With inflationary expectations subdued, the committee judged that a slightly more expansive monetary policy would add further support for an economy which it expects to improve over time."  

afp/.  
   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | nchr : Chronology | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPC20030625:192700-TX-BQU21 | US | economy | rates chrono | newseries   PUBAgence France Presse   ANDocument AFPR000020030625dz6p001my  



 HDFed cuts key rate to 45-year low of 1.00 percent.     BYby David Williams     WC565 words   PD25 June 2003   SNAgence France Presse   SCAFPR   LAEnglish   CYCopyright Agence France-Presse, 2003 All reproduction and presentation rights reserved.  
   LP= (PICTURES)  

ATTENTION - RECASTS ///  
   TDFederal Reserve policymakers sliced the key US interest rate by a quarter point to a 45-year low of 1.0 percent Wednesday in a pre-emptive strike against the chokehold of deflation.  

Federal Reserve chairman Alan Greenspan and his colleagues cut the federal funds target rate, which commercial banks charge each other for overnight loans, to the lowest level since 1958.  

It was the 13th cut since January 2001.  

Though the risk of weak prices in the postwar economy was "minor", it overwhelmed any risk of inflation, policymakers said.  

The rest of the economy appeared to be turning in the right direction, but it could still do with a boost.  

"Recent signs point to a firming in spending, markedly improved financial conditions, and labor and product markets that are stabilizing. The economy, nonetheless, has yet to exhibit sustainable growth," the Federal Open Market Committee said in a statement.  

"With inflationary expectations subdued, the committee judged that a slightly more expansive monetary policy would add further support for an economy which it expects to improve over time."  

The decision passed by 11 votes to one, with San Francisco Federal Reserve president Robert Parry calling instead for a bigger cut of half a percentage point.  

Low interest rates and improving productivity were boosting the economy, policymakers said.  

"The committee perceives that the upside and downside risks to the attainment of sustainable growth for the next few quarters are roughly equal," they said.  

"In contrast, the probability, though minor, of an unwelcome substantial fall in inflation exceeds that of a pickup in inflation from its already low level. On balance, the committee believes that the latter concern is likely to predominate for the foreseeable future."  

US producer prices, a measure of wholesale inflation, fell 0.3 percent in May when compared to April but consumer prices, the prices charged in the stores, were unchanged.  

Deflation is difficult to reverse and it deals a double blow by pressuring people to postpone buying until prices fall further and by raising real interest rates.  

As the Federal Reserve wrapped up a two-day meeting, fresh data showed a red-hot housing market but stumbling manufacturing sector, further evidence of the economy's uneven performance since the Iraq war.  

US new home sales soared 12.5 percent to a record-high annualized pace of 1.16 million in May, the government said.  

For existing homes, meanwhile, sales surged 1.2 percent to an annual rate of 5.92 million homes in May, the third-largest total on record, according to the National Association of Realtors.  

But new orders to factories for big-ticket items such as planes, cars and washing machines dropped 0.3 percent to 168.3 billion dollars, compounding a 2.4 percent slump in April.  

The sagging US labor market also has cast a cloud, after latest data showed the unemployment rate at a nine-year high of 6.1 percent in May.  

Many economists are forecasting tepid second quarter economic growth, with a substantial acceleration only expected in the second half of this year.  

The economy grew at an annualized rate of 1.4 percent in the last quarter of 2002 and at a 1.9-percent pace in the first quarter of 2003, government figures showed.  

djw/tw.  
   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPC20030625:190500-TX-BQQ12 | US | economy | rates newseries   PUBAgence France Presse   ANDocument AFPR000020030625dz6p001mo  



 HDUS set to cut rates to 1958 low - housing soars.     BYby David Williams     WC631 words   PD25 June 2003   SNAgence France Presse   SCAFPR   LAEnglish   CYCopyright Agence France-Presse, 2003 All reproduction and presentation rights reserved.  
   LPATTENTION - RECASTS ///  

The United States prepared Wednesday to pare interest rates to a 1958 low to boost a patchy recovery even as rock-bottom mortgage rates powered record new home sales.  
   TDFederal Reserve chairman Alan Greenspan and fellow policymakers, wrapping up a two-day meeting by mid-afternoon, were expected to slice key rates to speed growth and fend off deflation.  

They were set to cut the federal funds target rate, which commercial banks charge each other for overnight loans, from a 42-year low of 1.25 percent to a 45-year low of 1.00 percent or 0.75 percent, analysts said.  

Data showing a red-hot housing market were balanced by a drop in big-ticket orders for US factories, providing further evidence of the US economy's uneven performance since the Iraq war, they said.  

US new home sales soared 12.5 percent to a record-high annualized pace of 1.16 million in May, the government said.  

For existing homes, meanwhile, sales surged 1.2 percent to an annual rate of 5.92 million homes in May, the third-largest total on record, according to the National Association of Realtors.  

But new orders to factories for big-ticket items such as planes, cars and washing machines dropped 0.3 percent to 168.3 billion dollars, compounding a 2.4 percent slump in April.  

"The new home market is simply in another world, and that is helping keep shelter-related industries going. But with residential construction and sales so strong, you would think that the manufacturing sector, or at least segments of it, would be solid," said Joel Naroff, president of Naroff Economic Advisors.  

"It is an indication of how weak manufacturing really is, that in spite of soaring housing activity, the sector is still faltering. When you look at it that way, and you are a member of the FOMC, you have to be concerned," Naroff said.  

"That is, housing is doing its part, but that is the only part pulling its weight."  

The housing data helped Wall Street shake off early nerves, however. By late morning, the Dow Jones Industrial Average of 30 top stocks was up 46.99 points, or 0.52 percent, at 9,156.84.  

"In many respects, it does not really matter by how much the Fed cuts rates today, just so long as it does so. Failure to deliver after all the hints we have had so far would prove to be a major unpleasant surprise for the market," Commerzbank Securities economist Peter Dixon said.  

Dixon, who predicted a cut of a quarter percentage point, said the big worry for the Federal Reserve was weakness in prices.  

"The lower inflation falls, the lower must interest rates fall in order just to keep real interest rates constant," he said.  

"Thus, if there is more downside for inflation, far better that the Fed keeps some dry powder to offset the increase in the real interest rate which this would imply."  

Other analysts warned that Greenspan risked inflating a future housing bubble if rates fell too far and led to a drop in Treasury yields with further declines in the mortgage rate.  

But Naroff said the Federal Reserve could not afford to take action to prevent a future housing bubble.  

"They absolutely know that when mortgage rates go back to seven percent there is going to be a massive swing in demand, but right now they cannot worry about that," he said.  

According to a major mortgage financier, Freddie Mac, the national average commitment rate for a 30-year, fixed-rate mortgage was a record-low 5.48 percent in May, down from 5.81 percent in April.  

djw/ejp.  
   INi81501 : Credit Types/Services | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPC20030625:160000-TX-BOP45 | US | economy | rates sched | lead   PUBAgence France Presse   ANDocument AFPR000020030625dz6p001ha  



 HDChronology of falling US interest rates.     WC464 words   PD25 June 2003   SNAgence France Presse   SCAFPR   LAEnglish   CYCopyright Agence France-Presse, 2003 All reproduction and presentation rights reserved.  
   LPChronology of the 12 interest rate cuts by the United States since January 2001. Policymakers were meeting Wednesday to ponder a 13th reduction in the key federal funds target rate:  

January 3, 2001: Federal Open Market Committee lowers the federal funds rate by half a percentage point to 6.0 percent. Committee highlights "weakening of sales and production" in the context of lower consumer confidence.  
   TDJanuary 31, 2001: Key rate reduced to 5.5 percent. "Consumer and business confidence has eroded further," the Fed said, "exacerbated by rising energy costs that continue to drain consumer purchasing power and press on business profit margins."  

March 20, 2001: The Fed cuts rate by another half of a percentage point to 5.0 percent. The Fed highlights reduced investment, consumption and a weak global economy.  

April 18, 2001: The main rate cut by 50 basis points to 4.5 percent. The Fed cites persisting weakness in productivity and consumer spending.  

May 15, 2001: US central bank cuts interest rate to 4.0 percent in a new bid to boost flagging economy. The Fed says there is "considerable uncertainty about the business outlook."  

June 27, 2001: Main rate cut by quarter of a percentage point to 3.75 percent. The central bank warns that "declining profitability and business capital spending, weak expansion of consumption, and slowing growth abroad, continue to weigh on the economy."  

August 21, 2001: The Fed cuts another 25 basis points to take its main interest rate to 3.5 percent amidst persistent fears over the economy. "Business profits and capital spending continue to weaken and growth abroad is slowing, weighing on the US economy," said the central bank.  

September 17, 2001: The Federal Reserve cuts by 50 basis points to take the key rate to 3.0 percent in an emergency move after the September 11 attacks on New York and Washington rattle financial markets and the economy.  

October 2, 2001: The Fed takes another half a percentage point off the main rate, now 2.5 percent, saying: "The terrorist attacks have significantly heightened uncertainty in an economy that was already weak."  

November 6, 2001: The federal funds target rate is cut to 2.0 percent saying "Heightened uncertainty and concerns about a deterioration in business conditions both here and abroad are damping economic activity."  

December 11, 2001: The Federal Open Market Committee lowers its key rate by 25 basis points to 1.75 percent. It says "weakness in demand shows signs of abating, but those signs are preliminary and tentative."  

November 6, 2002: After almost a year of unchanged rates, the Fed sees signs of new weakness and cuts the interest rate to 1.25 percent. A looming conflict with Iraq is weighing heavily on confidence.  

afp.  
   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | nchr : Chronology | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPC20030625:155300-TX-BON14 | US | economy | rates chrono   PUBAgence France Presse   ANDocument AFPR000020030625dz6p001h4  



 HDGreenspan set to cut rates to 1958 low.     WC512 words   PD25 June 2003   SNAgence France Presse   SCAFPR   LAEnglish   CYCopyright Agence France-Presse, 2003 All reproduction and presentation rights reserved.  
   LPFederal Reserve chairman Alan Greenspan prepared Wednesday to axe key US rates to a 1958 low, with a drop in key factory orders fanning concern over a patchy postwar recovery, analysts said.  

The two-day meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC), chaired by Greenspan, wraps up mid-afternoon with a written decision, widely expected to trim rates to fend off deflation and boost a no-jobs recovery.  
   TDAnalysts overwhelmingly anticipated a cut in the federal funds target interest rate from a 42-year low of 1.25 percent to a 45-year low of 1.00 percent or 0.75 percent.  

As the FOMC met, the government released data showing that new orders for US durable goods - big-ticket items such as planes and washing machines - slid 0.3 percent to an 11-month low in May, compounding a 2.4 percent slump in April.  

"The data raise the chance of a 50-basis-point move, but we are sticking to our 25-basis-point forecast," said Ian Shepherdson, chief US economist at High Frequency Economics.  

Shepherdson predicted a jump in durable goods orders in the third quarter of this year.  

Much of the slide in May orders was caused by a drop in orders from the military after the Iraq war. If defense orders are stripped out of the data, new orders rose 0.3 percent.  

Perhaps most worrisome for policymakers, orders for non-defense capital goods excluding aircraft - closely watched as a barometer of business plans to expand and modernise - declined 0.5 percent.  

Financial markets appeared nervous, with US shares edging barely higher in early trade.  

The Dow Jones Industrial Average of 30 top stocks rose 1.05 point, or 0.01 percent, to 9,110.90 in the first 10 minutes of trade. The Standard and Poor's 500 index edged up 1.48 point, or 0.15 percent, to 984.93.  

The technology-laden Nasdaq climbed 7.15 points, or 0.45 percent, to 1,612.76.  

"For the record, we expect a 25-basis-point bps reduction largely because it gives the Fed more room for manoeuvre to cut rates further if inflation continues to decline," said Commerzbank Securities economist Peter Dixon.  

"In many respects, it does not really matter by how much the Fed cuts rates today - just so long as it does so. Failure to deliver after all the hints we have had so far would prove to be a major unpleasant surprise for the market," he said.  

Disinflation - or declining rates of inflation - was the focus of Federal Reserve policy, he said.  

"The lower inflation falls, the lower must interest rates fall in order just to keep real interest rates constant," Dixon said.  

"Thus, if there is more downside for inflation, far better that the Fed keeps some dry powder to offset the increase in the real interest rate which this would imply."  

Other analysts have warned, however, that Greenspan risks inflating a future housing bubble if rates fall too far.  

djw/ejp.  
   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPC20030625:141600-TX-BNE38 | US | economy | rates   PUBAgence France Presse   ANDocument AFPR000020030625dz6p001em  



 HDRoom for more euro-zone rate cuts - Finnish minister.     WC357 words   PD25 June 2003   SNAgence France Presse   SCAFPR   LAEnglish   CYCopyright Agence France-Presse, 2003 All reproduction and presentation rights reserved.  
   LPThe European Central Bank could cut euro-zone interest rates closer to the 1.25 percent level in the United States from the current 2.0 percent, Finnish Finance Minister Antti Kalliomaeki said Wednesday.  

"The policies of the European Central Bank have been positive, but there is still room for lowering the interest rate," Kalliomaeki told AFP a day after he was reinstated as finance minister in Finland's new three-party coalition.  
   TDOn June 5, the ECB lowered its key interest rate from 2.5 to 2.0 percent. In the United States the key rate stands at 1.25 percent, but the Federal Reserve was expected to cut it further on Wednesday.  

Analysts expected a US cut of between 0.5 and 0.25 percent.  

Kalliomaeki said: "There is more room here than in the US, it's still a bit higher here.  

"So it's possible to come down in the euro-area, but maybe in the US too," he noted.  

With the strong euro and a downturn in the global economy, which is all-important for the export-based Finnish economy, Kalliomaeki now faces a tougher time at home to make ends meet when putting together the national budget.  

Finland recently took 500 million euros in fresh loans to make up for the revenue shortfall this year, he said.  

"The future outlook is more difficult than we thought a few months ago," the finance minister admitted.  

He refrained however from painting an all-too-bleak picture of the future, saying there were some small positive signs of improvement too.  

"It very much depends on the German situation, but the government there has succeeded in some important issues," he noted.  

To keep the Finnish economy going despite the slump, the previous center-left coalition announced a one-percent cut in income taxes, to put more money in consumer's pockets.  

Kalliomaeki said that in the new government he would continue to stimulate growth by cutting taxes.  

"It will be tough, but in the taxation policy we will be very active," he concluded.  

paa/po/wai.  
   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | e52 : Euro Zone/Currency | eec : European Union | ecat : Economic News | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations   REfin : Finland | usa : United States | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | nordz : Nordic Countries | weurz : Western Europe   IPC20030625:133400-TX-BMR23 | Finland | economy | ECB | US | rates   PUBAgence France Presse   ANDocument AFPR000020030625dz6p001cy  



 HD Expected U.S. rate cut seen neutral for base metals.    BY By Lorna Hutchinson    WC595 words   PD24 June 2003   ET14:46   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2003 Reuters Limited
   LP LONDON, June 24 (Reuters) - Industrial base metals markets are unlikely to benefit from a cut in U.S. interest rates in the near term, with consumer buying already in the doldrums and set to worsen during the impending seasonal lull, sector analysts said. 

 "There is a sense that any feelings of euphoria (from a rate cut) will be masked by what is usually a sluggish period of demand," Nick Moore, base metals analyst at JP Morgan, said, referring to the onset of the seasonal third quarter slowdown. 
   TD "There is also the nagging feeling that some of the producers with idled capacity may take heart from this renewed sense of economic bonhomie, and set in motion plans to reactivate," Moore added. 

 The United States Federal Open Market Committee's (FOMC) two-day meeting on interest rates kicks off on Tuesday, with the much-awaited interest rate announcement due on Wednesday. 

 The U.S. Federal Reserve, seeking to rev up a slow recovery while keeping price deflation at bay, is universally expected to cut interest rates to 1958 lows. 

 The Fed's bellwether federal funds rate currently stands at a 42-year low of 1.25 percent, after a steep easing cycle that began in January 2001, when the economy was entering a mild recession and the key lending rate stood at 6.5 percent. 

 "Whatever happens, cutting interest rates is an admission that economic growth is weak and (this) is bearish for base metals," Robin Bhar, base metals analyst at Standard Bank London, said. 

 CUT SIZE DOESN'T MATTER 

 A Reuters poll of 21 top Wall Street bond dealers on Friday found all anticipate a rate cut, with a slim majority of 12 forecasting a half percentage point slash and the remaining nine opting for a smaller quarter percentage point. 

 John Kemp, economist at Sempra Metals, said that further reductions in interest rates, whether 25 or 50 basis points, will not change the underlying problem, which is lack of demand. 

 "Cheap credit has done little to improve business investment spending. Firms remain under pressure from shareholders to focus on improving profit margins and share values rather than invest in new plants and equipment or make acquisitions. Lower interest rates have not spurred higher investment," Kemp said. 

 "(A) 50 basis point cut would be in line with expectations and leave markets essentially unchanged. A bigger reduction would simply serve to underline how poor economic conditions are at present and might therefore have a negative effect on investor confidence; for this reason it is unlikely," Kemp added. 

 London Metal Exchange frontrunner metals copper and aluminium are currently up 9.6 percent and 2.5 percent respectively since the end of 2002. 

 At various points in the year so far, hedge fund buying has played a major role in propelling prices higher, notably at the beginning and the end of February and the beginning of June. 

 But consumer buying has been conspicuous by its absence, market players said. 

 "I don't think it will faze anybody if there's a cut. One would hope it would have a long-term effect (on base metals) and maybe lower rates will encourage re-stocking, but it's hard to get over-excited about demand," one senior LME trader said. 


At 1227 GMT, three months copper  stood at $1,688/90 a tonne, down from the
February high at $1,760, while aluminium        stood at $1,373/75, down
from the high at $1,443, also reached in February.

   INi211 : Metal Ore Mining | imet : Metals/Mining   NSc15 : Performance | c152 : Earnings Projections | c1521 : Analyst Comment/Recommendation | c17 : Funding/Capital | c172 : Corporate Debt Instruments | c31 : Marketing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REeecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | weurz : Western Europe   IPCN2K:ALU | N2K:EMK | N2K:EUROPE | N2K:GB | N2K:GDM | N2K:MCE | N2K:MET | N2K:MIS | N2K:MTL | N2K:MUL | N2K:US | N2K:WEU | N2K:XX   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument lba0000020030624dz6o00p7o  



 CLMMonday's Markets   HDStocks Decline, `Tired' by Rally; Fed Meets Today   BYBy E.S. Browning    WC635 words   PD24 June 2003   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGC1   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 2003, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LPSTOCKS SUFFERED their second 100-point decline in three trading days as the long rally lost some momentum and investors took more profits before the quarter ends.

With the year not even half over, many money managers were showing bigger gains than they had expected for the full year. Since the outlook for the economy and corporate earnings remains uncertain, some sold stocks to lock in profits.
   TD"We had 16 weeks of rally," said Brian Pears, head stock trader at Victory Capital Management, the money-management arm of KeyCorp in Cleveland. "The market is a little tired here and it feels as if a period of consolidation is going to be necessary before the market takes the next step."

The Dow Jones Industrial Average, which was above 9300 a week ago, fell 127.80 points, or 1.39%, to 9072.95, its sharpest one-day decline in more than a month. That followed a 114-point decrease Thursday. Although the blue-chip average remains above 9000, the two declines left some investors worried the rally has lost its momentum.

Treasury bonds, which had been in a slump last week, rebounded sharply as some investors moved money toward bonds ahead of the Federal Reserve monetary-policy meeting today and tomorrow. Analysts expect the Fed to stimulate the economy by cutting its target short-term interest rate by a quarter- or half-point, to its lowest level in 45 years.

The professionals weren't happy the Standard &Poor's 500-stock index, widely watched by money managers, again failed to move back above the 1000 milestone it briefly crossed earlier in the month. It fell 1.41%, or 14.05 points, to 981.64.

The volatile technology sector, which had recorded the biggest gains on the way up, again led the declines. The Nasdaq Composite Index, dominated by tech stocks, fell 2.07%, or 33.97 points, to 1610.75.

After rising 32% from its March 11 low through the middle of last week, the Nasdaq is up 27% since March 11; it is up 21% since the year began. The Dow industrials, which had been up 24% since March 11, are up 21% since then and up 9% since the year began.

Investors also received more warnings from companies whose performance is falling behind expectations. Unilever said first-half sales growth is slower than expected, although it said it would meet full-year earnings expectations.

There have been fewer such end-of-quarter warnings than some investors feared. The question in many investors' minds is whether companies will offer enough positive news and forecasts to push up stocks again when quarterly earnings are announced next month.

"The stock market will need an accelerating economy and better profit news in order to sustain its advance," Robert Doll, president of Merrill Lynch Investment Managers, a money-management arm of the large brokerage firm, said in a report to clients.

Outside the U.S., stocks declined in dollar terms. The Dow Jones World Stock Index, excluding U.S. stocks, fell 1.13%, or 1.33 points, to 116.41.

In major U.S. market action:

Stocks retreated. On the Big Board, where 1.35 billion shares traded, 803 stocks rose and 2,442 fell.

Bonds gained. The 10-year Treasury note rose 18/32, or $5.625 for each $1,000 invested. The yield, which moves inversely to price, fell to 3.315%. The 30-year bond was up 27/32 to yield 4.405%.

The dollar was mixed. Late in New York, it traded at 117.66 yen, from 118.33, while the euro fell against the dollar to $1.1545 from $1.1607. 

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpersf : Personal Finance | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | gvexe : Executive Branch | gvtre : Treasury Department | m11 : Equity Markets | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | m131 : Money Markets | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | mntdbt : National Government Debt/Bond Markets | ncat : Content Types | nsum : News Digest   REasiaz : Asia | easiaz : Eastern Asia | jap : Japan | namz : North America | usa : United States   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument j000000020030624dz6o0003o  



 CLMAhead of the Tape   HDAhead of the Tape   BYBy Dave Kansas    WC435 words   PD24 June 2003   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGC1   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 2003, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP[Today's Market Forecast]

Head Case
   TDAs the Fed begins a two-day meeting to hash out its near-term policy plans, two issues will compete for attention: economics and emotion.

On the economic end, data indicate the economy has started to percolate (again). Retail sales have edged higher, industrial production is a tad better and real estate keeps on keepin' on. But we've seen this before, especially in 2001, only to watch glimmers of hope fade into oblivion.

Which brings us to emotion. The stock market's recent sprint indicates investors want to believe the light at the end of the tunnel isn't a train. But faith is fragile. Investors embrace each positive whiff gingerly, afraid of past demons.

That's why -- despite the focus on the Fed's anticipated interest-rate cut expected tomorrow -- today's release of the Conference Board's consumer-confidence figures looms unusually large. All the levers for a rebound are in place. Fiscal policy is loose, monetary policy is beyond loose and the dollar has moved lower. But the string pushers can get so far. Ultimately, the economy will revive only if the demand side -- consumers and businesses -- start believing the rebound will stick, and adjust accordingly.

The consumer side has improved since the end of the Iraq war, with the Conference Board confidence figure rising to 83.8 last month from 61.4 in March. Economists' expectations range from a slight downtick to a slight uptick in the number, with pessimists holding the expectations edge. Commentators expect a second-half recovery. But the second half is nearly upon us. Thus, expectation and reality find themselves smacking into one another.

"The Federal Reserve, like the rest of us, has been frustrated by the underperformance of the economy," says Mickey Levy, chief economist at Bank of America. "And, like the rest of us, the Fed sees healthy fundamentals, tremendous monetary and fiscal stimulus and an economy continuously frustrated by uncertainties." He says improving consumer confidence would help the economy where it's badly needed: on the demand side. Unlike many of his peers, Mr. Levy expects consumer confidence to show improvement in June, bolstering the recovery thesis.

The minds of consumers are but a piece of the puzzle. Corporations remain mired in a miserly funk. They need more convincing the second-half recovery isn't illusory. An upbeat consumer would help.

---

Send comments to tape@wsj.com and check Mondays for some letters at WSJ.com/Tape 

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpersf : Personal Finance | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | gvexe : Executive Branch | m11 : Equity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument j000000020030624dz6o0001m  



 HDFed keeps markets guessing on rate cut.   BYBy ALAN BEATTIE IN WASHINGTON.    WC303 words   PD24 June 2003   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2003 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPFinancial markets remained divided over the size of the interest rate cut the Federal Reserve is expected to announce on Wednesday as the latest data continued to paint a mixed picture of the economic outlook.

Consumer confidence figures released on Tuesday gave some hope that the plunge in sentiment recorded by a rival measure was overdone.
   TDThe Conference Board consumer survey in June showed confidence slipping only a fraction. Wall Street had been expecting a bigger fall following a steep drop in the University of Michigan consumer sentiment survey.

The Fed does not place great stock in either measure, although it regards the Michigan as the more informative of the two.

The internal forecast presented to Fed policymakers at this week's meeting is likely to show real economic growth picking up later in the year, although most probably not the rapid acceleration in the third quarter projected by many Wall Street economists.

With investors ambivalent about on Wednesday's decision - futures prices on Tuesday were equally divided between a quarter-and a half-point cut - the immediate market reaction to the Fed announcement could be driven by the size of the reduction.

But economists said that over a longer period the market was likely to focus on how much of an implied or explicit commitment the Fed gave to keeping interest rates low in the future.

Neal Soss, chief US economist at CSFB in New York, said market reaction over the next few months would show how effective the Fed had been.

"The Fed has told the markets: we are going to keep rates low, so don't be afraid to buy risky assets," he said. "In that context, what the market does becomes a referendum on its communication skills." 
   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REeecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | weurz : Western Europe   IPCEconomic Indicators | Economic News | Forecasts &Predictions | General News | Interest Rates | Market News   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument ftcom00020030625dz6o0007k  



 HDUS Morgan Stanley's Berner at BMA - Jobless Recovery Can't Cont.     WC656 words   PD24 June 2003   ET17:59   SNMarket News International   SCMARNEW   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2003. Market News International, Inc.  
   LP- Bond Market Association Econ Advisory Committee Chair Expects Some Quickening of Core Inflation - Expect More from Greenspan on Fed's Unconventional Options in July Testimony - BMA Panel Sees 2.9% GDP in 2003, Rising to 3.6% in 2004, Yr-Over-Yr - No Official BMA Position on Hill GSE Proposals  

By Chris Middleton  
   TDWASHINGTON (MktNews) - Economists advising the Bond Market Association are quite optimistic about the prospects for accelerated U.S. growth, but unemployment remains a "gray area" that likely will not improve much in the short term, the BMA said Tuesday morning.  

In its mid-year forecast, the BMA's Economic Advisory Committee cited stimulative fiscal policy, deflation-fighting monetary policy, a favorable financial market environment and a weaker dollar as grounds for believing that the economy "will accelerate through the balance of the year and into 2004.  

The BMA committee expects growth for 2003 to be around 2.9%, while the median forecast for 2004 is a 3.6% rise in gross domestic product, measured fourth quarter to fourth quarter.  

But U.S. joblessness remains a "gray area" and the unemployment rate is expected "to remain relatively flat," said BMA Senior Vice President Michael Decker, in reviewing the forecast.  

Morgan Stanley Chief U.S. Economist Richard Berner, who chairs the BMA economic panel, said unemployment remains a key downside risk to the economy.  

"A jobless recovery, if it were to continue, is not sustainable," Berner said. Other downside risks include energy prices remaining at "uncomfortably high levels" and the United States serving as the only engine of global growth.  

Berner told reporters when asked whether the committee's forecast for mild inflation implied higher core prices that this would "reasonable to assume" and that "some quickening of core inflation" is plausible, while energy prices likely will move lower.  

Berner noted that it is hard to separate the psychological vs. the economic effects of the Federal Reserve's interest rate cuts, but beyond the expected the fed funds reduction seen this week, the Fed will mainly be trying to say that deflation "is not going to happen."  

Two-thirds of the 30-member panel of economists predicted the Fed will ease by 25 basis points Wednesday, while one-third foresee a 50 basis point move.  

As for the Fed possibly resorting to so-called unconventional means of monetary stimulus, Berner said he does not expect the Federal Open Market Committee statement this Wednesday to address that issue, but sees Chairman Alan Greenspan elaborating more on the Fed's options during his July monetary policy testimony on Capitol Hill.  

Berner said he personally sees U.S. growth potential at a 3.0% to 3.5% trend rate, but acknowledged that U.S. output "has been growing below trend" for some time.  

The BMA economists panel said it expects the U.S. dollar to "continue to fall, by more against the euro than the yen."  

"But they strongly doubt that the dollar will 'crash' or decline abruptly," the BMA said in its economic outlook.  

Both BMA President Micah Green and Decker were asked about the organization's stance regarding proposals for regulation of the government sponsored enterprises, particularly in the aftermath of the leadership shake-up at Freddie Mac, and Green said the BMA has not taken a position. House Financial Services Capital Markets Subcommittee Chairman Rep. Richard Baker Tuesday morning outlined his proposals for greater regulation, as reported earlier.  

Green said that in the aftermath of the Freddie Mac developments, "the market for GSE securities has remained strong," while Decker added the BMA view that there "won't be any significant systemic disruptions in mortgage markets."  

The BMA economic panel was not asked to comment on the situation involving the GSEs in the mid-year survey.  

** Market News International Washington Bureau: (202) 371-2121 **  

[TOPICS: MAUDS$,MT $ $ $$,MMUFE$,M$U $ $$,M $$AG$,M $$FX$].   
   COroyca : Royal Bank of Canada   INi814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCWASHINGTON   PUBMarket News International, Inc.   ANDocument MARNEW0020030625dz6o0000f  



 HDDecoding the Fed - the art of reading between the lines - INTEREST RATES - In the uncertain game of ...   BYBy ALAN BEATTIE.    WC761 words   PD24 June 2003   SNFinancial Times   SCFTFT   PG10   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2003 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPDecoding the Fed - the art of reading between the lines - INTEREST RATES - In the uncertain game of managing the expectations of Wall Street on the economy's direction, what the central bank says is as important as what it does. Alan Beattie reports.

Those who regularly follow the public statements with which the US Federal Reserve accompanies its decisions are well practised in deciphering cryptic circumlocutions.
   TDWhen the Fed's open market committee (FOMC) announces its interest rate decision tomorrow, its comments will be even more closely parsed by investors. As the Fed moves beyond simply lowering or raising borrowing costs and towards a more uncertain game of trying to influence future expectations, the nuancing of the signals surrounding its decisions assumes increasing importance.

On Friday, the Fed released a study suggesting that statements by the FOMC and testimony by Alan Greenspan, Fed chairman, were at least as influential in determining medium-term expectations of interest rates as the rate decisions themselves.

The study, co-authored by FOMC member Don Kohn, raised a few wry smiles on Wall Street, coming after two days in which competing speculative press stories about the Fed's thinking had thrown expectations first in favour of, and then against, a half-point cut this week.

Investors will be looking for a more reliable steer. One delicate judgment the Fed must make involves how it presents its traditional assessment of the balance of risks for the economy. At the May meeting, when the FOMC left rates on hold, it nonetheless successfully engineered a fall in long-term rates by creating separate risk assessments for inflation and growth and announcing what amounted to a downward bias in the inflation outlook.

By saying the risk of inflation falling too low outweighed that of it being too high, it created expectations that rates would be left low for a long time to come.

So successful was this exercise that most observers expect the Fed to repeat it. Though a Reuters poll reveals Wall Street economists divided between a quarter-and a half-point cut this week, most expect it to retain a downward overall bias.

This expectation runs counter to some traditional views of how the Fed uses its risk assessment. Under the usual rules, if the Fed cut rates tomorrow and still retained a downward bias to inflation, it would raise the question of why it did not cut by enough to restore the bias to neutral. Its last cut, in November, was accompanied by just such a shift back to a neutral bias in order to reassure the mar kets that it thought it had done enough.

But the Fed's strategy has since shifted towards a signal that it is permanently on the alert for the risk of falling inflation. In this context, a shift to a neutral bias might give the unwelcome impression that the Fed had finished cutting rates, encouraging longer-term interest rates to rise and undermining the stimulative effect of the cut.

"I don't buy the notion that leaving a bias towards further ease means they haven't done enough," says Richard Berner, chief US economist at Morgan Stanley. "When you are in uncharted waters, you never know you have done enough until after the fact."

And more important than the bias, or even the decision between a quarter and a half-point cut, he says, is the overall presentation of the Fed's strategy to expunging the risk of deflation, and the nuances in the wording of the statement that will accompany the decision.

"What they say is more important than what they do," Mr Berner says.

If the Fed finds a way to firm up its implied commitment to keep rates low for a long time, perhaps by announcing that they will not be raised until inflation has risen a certain amount, it seems likely to have far more effect than a bald statement of its risk assessment. In fact, the Fed study published on Friday rather surprisingly found that the risk assessment in Fed statements did not seem to have a discernible effect in pushing the market one way or another. "We would argue that providing more detailed language has considerable advantages over a simple, discrete categorisation of the risks," the paper argued.

This week's statement will be a fine opportunity for the Fed to test its ability to master such subtle skills of communication.

London Edition 1. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REeecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | weurz : Western Europe   IPCLondon Edition 1 | THE AMERICAS | Economic Indicators | Economic News | Government News | Interest Rates | Federal Reserve USA | United States of America | Americas | North America | Pacific Rim   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument ftft000020030624dz6o00075  



 HDWall Street choppy as Fed meets on rate cut.     WC593 words   PD24 June 2003   SNAgence France Presse   SCAFPR   LAEnglish   CYCopyright Agence France-Presse, 2003 All reproduction and presentation rights reserved.  
   LPUS stocks struggled for direction Tuesday with investors indecisive as a two-day Federal Reserve monetary policy meeting was getting underway to discuss an interest rate cut.  

With the major indexes alternating between minor gains and losses, the Dow Jones industrial average held a gain of 8.47 points or 0.09 percent at 9.081.42 at 1515 GMT while the Nasdaq composite slipped 10.33 points, or 0.64 percent, to 1,600.42.  
   TDThe Standard and Poor's 500 broad-market index edged down 1.70 points or 0.17 percent to 979.94.  

The markets showed little reaction to a report showing a nearly steady reading in consumer confidence. The Conference Board confidence index fell to 83.5 in June from May's revised 83.6 - its first drop in three months. The decline, however, was less than expectations for a reading of 82.4.  

With the Federal Open Market Committee kicking off a two-day meeting Tuesday, investors were expecting a cut in the already-low federal funds rate, but were divided on whether it would be a quarter-point or half-point reduction.  

But many economists point out that the Fed's statement may hold more sway than the actual rate cut as it will reveal the central bank's view on the economy and its possible course of action in coming months.  

"Whatever the Fed does this week, it is critical that officials clearly explain the rationale and how the outlook has changed," said Morgan Stanley economist Richard Berner.  

"In a world where investors' expectations will shape that outcome, policymakers can enlist their aid as they did in May. I continue to believe that fiscal and monetary policy will get traction, although we have yet to see the convincing evidence in the data."  

Technology shares were mostly weaker. Advanced Micro Devices slid 45 cents or 6.8 percent to 6.14 after warning that second-quarter revenue would fall short of expectations, citing the impact of SARS (severe acute respiratory syndrome) on sales in Asia.  

Corning gave back early gains and shed 15 cents to 7.15 after telling investors that it would back its second-quarter outlook.  

But Apple Computer edged up 10 cents to 19.16 on an upgrade by Merrill Lynch to a "neutral" from a "sell" following Monday's launch of G5 PowerMacs, which the brokerage feels will lead to a replacement cycle in the segment and boost the company's bottom line.  

Federal Express dropped 1.45 to 60.54 as it announced a fiscal fourth-quarter profit that exceeded analysts' expectations but cautioned that it remains concerned about the current state of the economy.  

Dow component Walt Disney surrendered 21 cents to 19.65 after CIBC World Markets trimmed its third-and fourth-quarter estimates as well as 2004 projections, citing a more delayed recovery at the entertainment titan's theme parks, among other things.  

Lockheed Martin drifted down six cents to 48.15 even after it signed a memorandum of understanding with Britain's BAE Systems to work together on missile defense projects.  

Merck dropped 53 cents to 61.58 after the federal government joined a lawsuit against its Medco prescription sales unit.  

Bonds firmed, as the yield on the 10-year Treasury bond eased to 3.303 percent from 3.315 percent Monday and that on the 30-year bond to 4.387 percent against 4.394 percent. Bond yields and prices move in opposite directions.  

bur-rl/mac.  
   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1202 : Interest Rates | m11 : Equity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPC20030624:153300-TX-BEK96 | Stocks | US sched   PUBAgence France Presse   ANDocument AFPR000020030624dz6o000v5  
 Page 1 of 1      2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.


 

 Page 1      2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.

