 


 HDWording leaves door open to February hike: Derrick      WC88 words   PD15 December 2004   SNAFX Asia   SCAFXASI   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2004, AFX Asia. All rights reserved.   
   LPWording leaves door open to February hike: Derrick CHICAGO (XFN-ASIA) -- The Federal Reserve's acknowledgement that U.S. interest-rate policy is still accommodative points to another quarter-point rate hike in February, said John Derrick, director of research for U.S. Global Investors. "They'll probably go 25 basis points in February," he said. "That's the measured pace the Fed is talking about." This story was supplied by CBSMarketWatch. For further information see   www.cbsmarketwatch.com  . MMMM    
   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBXinhua Financial Network Limited   ANDocument AFXASI0020041214e0cf005em  



 HDBanks respond to Fed's  interest rate  hike     WC121 words   PD15 December 2004   ET04:24   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2004.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.  
   LPHONOLULU (AP) - Hawaii's three largest banks immediately responded Tuesday to the Federal Reserve's move to raise interest rates by a quarter point for the fifth time since June.  

Bank of Hawaii, First Hawaiian Bank and American Savings Bank each raised their prime lending rates from 5 percent to 5.25 percent. First Hawaiian's rate boost was effective Tuesday; Bank of Hawaii's and American Savings Bank's increases take effect on Wednesday.  
   TDThe Fed's latest quarter-point increase raised the federal funds rate, the interest that banks charge each other, to 2.25 percent. The Fed said the nation's economy is growing enough to handle the increase.  
   RF7   COfsthwn : First Hawaiian Bank | wshmut : Washington Mutual Inc | banqnp : BNP Paribas SA   INi814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | i81403 : Savings Institutions | i81501 : Credit Types/Services | i8150103 : Mortgages/Real Estate Credit | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REushi : Hawaii | namz : North America | usa : United States | usw : Western U.S.   IPCtagpf0wcat | selhihi- | catf   IPDAP State Wires: Hawaii | Financial/Business | HI Interest Rates Hawaii | D86VQSL82   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020041215e0cf0025t  



 HDUPDATE1-Kuwait raises key  interest rate  to 4.75 pct.      BYBy Haitham Haddadin      WC451 words   PD15 December 2004   ET12:27   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2004 Reuters Limited   
   LPKUWAIT, Dec 15 (Reuters) - Kuwait's central bank said it raised on Wednesday the dinar discount rate by a quarter of a percentage point to 4.75 percent to safeguard the local currency following Tuesday's U.S. Federal Reserve rate hike.   

"The Kuwait central bank hiked the discount rate by 25 basis points to 4.75 percent," a Bank official told Reuters.   
   TDThe Kuwaiti central bank usually moves up this rate - the benchmark for all local commercial rates - shortly after the U.S. central bank does, as the Kuwaiti dinar is linked to the dollar.   

State news agency KUNA quoted Central Bank of Kuwait Governor Sheikh Salem Abdulaziz al-Sabah as saying the Bank decided to raise the dinar rate from 4.50 percent "in line with the Bank's monitoring of economic and monetary developments locally and internationally".   

The move also aims "to boost the (dinar's) competitiveness in light of the trend of rising rates on the key currencies, especially the U.S. dollar to which the Kuwaiti dinar is pegged within specific margins", Sheikh Salem added.   

The U.S. Fed raised its federal funds rate - which affects borrowing costs throughout the U.S. economy - by 0.25 percentage points to 2.25 percent on December 14. It was the fifth rate increase this year.   

In OPEC nation Kuwait, which controls nearly 10 percent of global oil reserves, rates have been on the rise too, with Wednesday's Bank action also the fifth discount rate increase in 2004.   

The Kuwait central bank nudged up dinar rates starting with 25 basis points in July to 3.5 percent, followed by 50 points in August, then two hikes of 25 basis points each in September and November. The discount rate is the interest rate at which the central bank is prepared to lend funds to commercial banks. It was as high as 7.5 percent in early 1990s in the oil-rich Gulf Arab state.   

"Boosting the national currency's competitiveness as a reservoir for local savings ... necessitates keeping a suitable margin between dinar interest rates and rates on key currencies, especially the U.S. dollar," the central bank's Sheikh Salem said.   

Kuwaiti dinar deposits, he said, are the main source for funds advanced as credit by the local banks to their customers.   

According to central bank statistics, total private sector deposits in Kuwaiti banks stood at about 9.797 billion dinars ($33.31 billion) by November, including savings, time deposits and certificates of deposit. The figure rises to 11.35 billion dinars ($38.59 billion) when government deposits are included.   

($1 = 0.294 Kuwaiti dinar).    
   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News   REkuwait : Kuwait | usa : United States | asiaz : Asia | gulfstz : Persian Gulf Regions | meastz : Middle East | namz : North America | wasiaz : Western Asia   IPCN2K:BNK | N2K:BUS | N2K:CRD | N2K:D | N2K:DNP | N2K:E | N2K:EMRG | N2K:FED | N2K:FIN | N2K:KW | N2K:M | N2K:MD | N2K:MEAST | N2K:RNP | N2K:STX | N2K:US   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument LBA0000020041215e0cf00cyp  



 HDUK gilts firm as Fed pulls no surprise, eye wage data.      WC298 words   PD15 December 2004   ET10:07   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2004 Reuters Limited   
   LP
    LONDON, Dec 15 (Reuters) - UK gilts rose on Wednesday in
line with U.S. Treasuries which climbed on relief after the
Federal Reserve offered few surprises on its rate move and a
statement that followed it.
    The U.S. central bank raised interest rates by a quarter
percentage point on Tuesday as widely expected and left its
stance on policy and inflation unchanged.
    The lack of change in the Fed's language was welcome news to
those who feared it might abandon its pledge to be "measured"
because of recent positive economic data.
    Investors awaited jobs and earnings data due at 0930 GMT for
clues on strength of the UK jobs market and wage inflation and
their implications for the interest rate outlook.
 
    "Both quantity and price sides of this report are
important," said Laurent Fransolet, strategist at JP Morgan.
   
   TD
    "Surveys suggest umemployment should still be falling, while
Tuesday's surprise on the CPI will have hightened the Monetary
Policy Committee's sensitivity to the wage data," he said.
    Data on Tuesday showed British consumer price inflation hit
a five-month high in November on the back of air fares and
higher utility bills.
 
    * Futures: March gilt 111.81 (+0.04)
    * Dec short stg 95.15 (UNCH)
----------------------- KEY MARKET DATA ------------------------
Long Gilt futures            Gilt benchmark chain
Short Stg futures            Cash market quotes
Deposit rates                Sterling cross rates
UK debt speedguide  Econ. indicator polls
---------------------- KEY MARKET REPORTS ----------------------
Gilts                        Sterling
Euro Debt                    Dollar
U.S. Treasuries              Debt reports
----------------------- GILT STRIPS DATA -----------------------
Gilt strips data                 All gilt strips
Gilt strips IO                   Gilt strips PO
A list of all the strippable British gilts
----------------------- FOR MORE NEWS... -----------------------
Top British news                 World news
UK diary                         Press reviews
New from Reuters
   


Useful Speedguides                          .
   
   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | mntdbt : National Government Debt/Bond Markets | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets   REeurz : Europe | uk : United Kingdom | eecz : European Union Countries | weurz : Western Europe | usa : United States | namz : North America   IPCN2K:D | N2K:DBT | N2K:DRV | N2K:E | N2K:EUROPE | N2K:GB | N2K:GB/ | N2K:GVD | N2K:M | N2K:RNP | N2K:UKIRL | N2K:WEU   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument LBA0000020041215e0cf00at1  



 SEThe Economy   HDFed Raises  Interest-Rate  Target For 5th Time This Year, to 2.25% --- Central Bank Shows No Sign It Will Change the Pace Of Adjustments Next Year   BYBy Greg Ip    WC951 words   PD15 December 2004   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGA2   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 2004, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LPThe Federal Reserve raised its key interest-rate target for the fifth time this year, giving no signal it would either speed up or slow down the pace of rate changes next year.

As widely expected, the Fed raised its target for the federal-funds rate to 2.25% from 2%. It was the fifth consecutive policy meeting at which the central bank raised the target a quarter of a percentage point.
   TDIn language almost identical to what it said after its November meeting, the Fed said the economy is growing at a "moderate pace" despite high energy prices, the job market continues "to improve gradually," and both inflation and longer-term inflation expectations remain "well contained."

The Fed also reaffirmed its intention to raise rates at a "measured" pace, interpreted as no more than a quarter point per meeting. Investors trading futures contracts based on movements in the fed-funds rate currently put a near 100% probability that the Fed will raise the rate to 2.5% at its meeting Feb. 1-2, but are split on the likelihood the Fed will repeat that step at the March 22 meeting.

Economists said the 19-member Federal Open Market Committee shed no new light on its inclinations. "The outlook is now data-dependent," said Lou Crandall, chief economist at Wrightson Associates, a money-market research firm in New York. "The world could change over the next few weeks and they're not prejudging it."

There was one slight hint of less inclination to pause in its rate increases. All 12 of the Fed's regional banks had submitted requests to raise the discount rate, up from 10 in November. That little-used levy on central-bank advances to commercial banks moves in lockstep with the more important fed-funds rate, charged on overnight loans between banks.

Several commercial banks raised their prime rate, a benchmark for many business and consumer loans, to 5.25% from 5%.

The Fed said, as it has since March, that there are "roughly equal" risks of the economy growing faster or slower than its ideal rate, and of inflation going too high or too low. Markets, relieved that the Fed gave no sign of greater concern on inflation, pushed down long-term interest rates. Stocks rose.

Laurence Meyer, a former Fed governor and a Fed analyst at St. Louis forecasting firm Macroeconomic Advisers LLC, said the Fed is torn between data that show the economy to be strong and expectations that a widening trade deficit, high energy prices and less fuel from tax cuts will weigh on growth in the coming year. He predicted the Fed, after raising interest rates in February, would slow the pace of increases thereafter, so that the funds rate reaches about 3.5% by year end.

Separately, the FOMC said it would begin releasing minutes to its deliberations three weeks after a policy meeting, instead of the Thursday after the subsequent meeting five to seven weeks later. It is the latest move by the Fed to become more transparent. The earlier release should give the public a better understanding of what drove a particular decision, and more appreciation of any divergence of views within the Fed. Under the old schedule, issues raised in the minutes often had been superseded by intervening developments by the time the public read them.

"In the current environment, where the Fed is being so predictable and there are so few surprises, it won't add or subtract that much," said Ken Kuttner, an economist at Oberlin College who worked on communications issues while a staff economist at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. "But when the turning point in interest rates comes, having the minutes available [sooner] will make some difference."

The FOMC had been considering earlier release for at least a year, but officials first had to reassure themselves it wouldn't distract from the Fed's postmeeting statement. Another concern was whether the central-bank staff could prepare the minutes, which are based on a full meeting transcript, and circulate them for approval in time.

The Fed's first rate increases were driven primarily by the need to lift the rate from extraordinary lows appropriate only when the economy faced the risk of deflation. With yesterday's increase, the rate is firmly above the underlying inflation rate -- 1.5%, according to the Fed's preferred measure -- and the Fed is keying its moves more to the ebb and flow of data on growth and inflation.

While all 12 voting FOMC members were unanimous in yesterday's action, there is growing divergence on the outlook for growth and inflation.

Some officials are becoming more wary on the outlook for inflation. Productivity growth -- which enables firms to become ever more efficient -- has slowed, and firms are trying harder to raise prices in response to higher material costs and the lower dollar. In a survey of 185 chief financial officers released yesterday, 56% said their companies have felt rising producer prices and of those, 77% plan to pass along between half and all of that increased cost to consumers. The survey was conducted by Financial Executives International, a trade association, and Baruch College in New York.

But other Fed officials think inflation will remain tightly under wraps. They note with factories operating below normal capacity and unemployment still relatively high, businesses will remain hard-pressed to raise prices and workers will struggle to win pay increases. 



License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | ecat : Economic News | gvexe : Executive Branch | m131 : Money Markets | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCPIC | FED | USG | NND | TPX | ECN | LMJ | TPT   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument J000000020041215e0cf0003k  


 CLMTuesday's Markets   HDDow Industrials Getting Closer To 2004 High   BYBy Scott Patterson The Wall Street Journal Online    WC839 words   PD15 December 2004   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGC1   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 2004, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LPSTOCK MARKETS, unfazed by rising interest rates, trade deficits and oil prices, marched to their own tune -- a holiday jingle.

Traders held their powder before the Federal Reserve's Open Market Committee announced it would raise its target short-term interest rate to 2.25%. But after the statement, which included reassurances that the central bankers would maintain a "measured" pace of monetary tightening, investors got busy. Stocks pushed higher despite a 2% gain in oil, a record trade gap and somewhat subtle indications from the Fed that the soft labor market just isn't firming up.
   TDCould the fabled "Santa Claus" rally finally be under way? Blue chips have advanced four out of the past five sessions and are up 2% for the month, with only seven more trading days before the Christmas holiday.

The Dow Jones Industrial Average finished up 38.13 points, or 0.4%, at 10676.45 -- the average is now just 60 points off the 2004 high. Alcoa weighed on the industrials, slumping 1.7% after J.P. Morgan downgraded the aluminum company on concerns of higher costs and declining demand, among other reasons.

But Intel, another Dow component, gained 2.7% on a broad rally in the technology sector. That helped carry the Nasdaq Composite Index up 0.5%, or 11.34 points, to 2159.84. Reports of merger talks between security-software makers Symantec and Veritas Software helped prop up the tech sector. The broad Standard &Poor's 500-stock index added 4.7 points, or 0.4%, to 1203.38, padding its three-year high.

While investors held their collective breath until the Fed announcement, the rate increase wasn't a surprise. The economy "appears to be growing at a moderate pace, despite the earlier increase in energy prices, and labor-market conditions continue to improve gradually," the policy makers said.

The "gradually" caveat -- a concession to a soft job market -- was the only alteration from the FOMC's last statement, in November. "There had been some talk about more recognition of inflation risk, given [Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan's] observations in Frankfurt a few weeks back," said Peter Hooper, chief U.S. economist at Deutsche Bank, referring to concerns Mr. Greenspan expressed about trade and current-account deficits.

But there was no such recognition, and stocks celebrated. In addition to the Dow's move closer to its 2004 high, which puts it up 2% for the year so far, the Nasdaq composite, up about 8% for the year, ended at a more-than three-year high. The S&P 500 closed above 1200 for the first time since August 2001, before the 9/11 terrorist attacks; it also is up 8% for the year.

Merrill Lynch analysts weighed in with a bullish call for stocks in 2005, citing unleashed corporate cash that has boosted merger activity. Stocks "offer more compelling risk-adjusted returns relative to their bond counterparts," the bank's global equity research department said.

While the Fed may be conceding jobs are in short supply, U.S. consumers continue to skew global trade balances. A report of a surprisingly sharp jump in the U.S. trade deficit showed that it swelled 8.9% to $55.46 billion in October -- the widest gap since June, when it hit $55.34 billion.

While record-high oil prices played a part, the voracious demand for cheap consumer goods from China also was to blame. The trade deficit with China ballooned 8% to $16.8 billion for the month, a record high.

It's a record that comes amid a tacit U.S. policy to drive down the dollar to help offset the nation's trade and budget deficits. Treasury Secretary John Snow has left it for the market to sort out the greenback's value. Mr. Greenspan's comments to foreign bankers in Frankfurt last month about the threat of the twin deficits were interpreted by many as an endorsement of a weak-dollar policy.

The dollar, however, held its ground against the euro yesterday while gaining on the yen as currency traders seemed to have discounted the exploding trade deficit into the greenback. The price of light, sweet crude for January delivery rose 81 cents, or 2%, to $41.82 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange.

In major U.S. market action:

Stocks rose. On the Big Board, where 1.54 billion shares traded, 2,027 stocks rose and 1,252 fell.

Bonds rose. The 10-year Treasury note rose 7/32, or $2.19 for each $1,000 invested. The yield, which moves opposite of price, fell to 4.13%. The 30-year bond rose 17/32, yielding 4.77%.

The dollar firmed. It last traded at 105.53 yen, up from 104.85, while the euro weakened a bit against the dollar to $1.3305 from $1.3306. 

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   NSm11 : Equity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | e1202 : Interest Rates | gpersf : Personal Finance | gvtre : Treasury Department | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m131 : Money Markets | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | mntdbt : National Government Debt/Bond Markets | nsum : News Digest | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | glife : Living/Lifestyle | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | gvexe : Executive Branch | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | niwe : IWE Filter   REusa : United States | jap : Japan | asiaz : Asia | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America   IPCTRE | USG | STT | JPY | NND | TPX | USD | MIM | PMK | TFR | TPT   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument J000000020041215e0cf0001r  



 CLMCredit Markets   HDTreasurys Rise on Inflation Outlook --- Yield Curve Is Expected To Continue Flattening In Wake of Rate Increase   BYBy Agnes T. Crane and Michael Mackenzie    WC853 words   PD15 December 2004   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGC4   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 2004, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LPNEW YORK -- Even though the Federal Reserve raised interest rates for the fifth time this year, most Treasury prices rose yesterday as the central bank's sanguine view on inflation encouraged investors to buy government securities.

Longer-dated benchmarks outperformed the two-year note, the issue most sensitive to changes in monetary policy, which ended the day unchanged. The spread between the two- and 10-year notes, meanwhile, narrowed to 1.16 basis points, a new three-year low.
   TDAt 4 p.m., the benchmark 10-year note was up 7/32 at 101. Its yield was at 4.126%, or $2.187 per $1,000 face value, from 4.153% Monday, as yields move inversely to prices. The 30-year bond's price was up 17/32 at 108 30/32 to yield 4.773% from 4.806%.

The Fed raised its federal-funds target rate to 2.25% from 2% and largely retained the language used in a statement issued at its meeting in November.

Christopher Rupkey, an economist at Bank of Tokyo Mitsubishi in New York, noted: "Fed officials are saying we can have sustainable growth where labor market conditions continue to improve without sparking a new outbreak of inflation."

Some market participants had been braced for more hawkish language from the Fed given the rise in inflation gauges and a recent press report indicating some members had become uncomfortable about signs of percolating inflation. But, in their statement, Fed policy makers said, as they had after their previous meeting, that "inflation and longer-term inflation expectations remain well contained,"

After stumbling around immediately after the Fed announcement, prices in the longer-dated securities quickly found their footing as investors interpreted the Fed's remarks on inflation as a green light to flatten the yield curve, in which longer-dated securities outperform shorter-dated ones.

The combination of rate rises and contained inflation risk have helped fashion a strong flattening of the curve during the year. Since January, the difference between the two- and 10-year note yields has compressed from around 2.50 percentage points.

The Fed policy makers' view that "inflation and longer-term inflation expectations remain well contained," reinforces the flattening trend, said Dominic Konstam, head of interest-rate strategy at Credit Suisse First Boston in New York.

When the Fed is in a tightening mode, holders of long-dated Treasurys are comforted as rising short-term rates contain future inflation pressures. That protects their returns over time from rising prices.

It's good news for bond investors who can adjust their portfolio holdings of Treasurys so they are overweighted in the 10-year note versus shorter-dated maturities. The strategy has worked well this year despite the 10-year note's yield being little changed from where it was a year ago because the two-year has borne the brunt of the federal-funds rate moving up. Although the 10-year yield hit a peak of 4.90% in the middle of June, its subsequent steady decline has wrongfooted many outright bearish investors.

But, for those who sought to implement a flattening strategy, the compression in the benchmark curve has been profitable.

Anton Pil, global head of fixed income for JPMorgan Private Bank in New York, expects the Fed will keep pushing the funds rate to around 3.25% to 3.50% in 2005 That would likely push the two-year note yield to around 4% to 4.25%, up from its present 2.97%. 


 
                               AUCTION RESULTS 
 
  Here are the results of the Treasury auction of four-week bills. All bids 
are awarded at a single price at the market-clearing yield. Rates are 
determined by the difference between that price and the face value. 
 
Applications ................................   $31,258,993,000 
Accepted bids ...............................   $10,000,243,000 
Accepted noncompetitively ...................       $46,993,000 
Accepted frgn noncomp .......................                $0 
Auction price (Rate) ........................ 99.847556 (1.960%) 
Coupon equivalent ...........................            1.990% 
Bids at market-clearing yld accepted ........            93.00% 
Cusip number ................................         912795RV5 
 
  The bills are dated Dec. 16, and mature Jan. 13, 2005. 
    

Corporate Bonds

General Motors Corp. bonds widened yesterday as the U.S. auto giant seeks to extricate itself from an agreement with Italian auto maker Fiat SpA to buy the rest of the Italian company's unprofitable car-making division.

A put option signed four years ago laid the plans for a full buyout of Fiat Auto by GM, which as part of joint venture deal acquired a stake in Fiat. The put option gave Fiat the right to sell the remaining stake in Fiat Auto to GM at a later date -- from Jan. 24, 2005.

GM bonds saw renewed selling yesterday. Risk premiums on its 8.375% bonds due 2033 widened 0.07 percentage point to 3.49 percentage points over Treasurys and were 0.22 point wider on the week, according to MarketAxess's BondTicker.

---

Aparajita Saha-Bubna contributed to this article. 

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   NSmcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | e1202 : Interest Rates | m131 : Money Markets | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m13 : Money/Forex Markets   REusa : United States | usmi : Michigan | namz : North America | usc : Midwest U.S.   IPCCMR | DJCB | EWR | TRE | USG | CYC | NND | TPX | CRD | MIM   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument J000000020041215e0cf00012  



 HDUS raises key  interest rate  to choke inflation     BYCG     WC626 words   PD14 December 2004   ET23:13   SNAgence France Presse   SCAFPR   LAEnglish   CYCopyright Agence France-Presse, 2004 All reproduction and presentation rights reserved.  
   LPWASHINGTON, Dec 14 (AFP) -  

US Federal Reserve chiefs boosted short-term interest rates Tuesday for the fifth time in a row, promising further tightening in 2005 to head off inflation.  
   TDThe Federal Open Market Committee voted unanimously to raise the federal funds target rate, which commercial banks charge each other overnight, by a quarter percentage point to 2.25 percent.  

It means short-term US interest rates exceed those in the eurozone for the first time since early 2001.  

"The committee believes that, even after this action, the stance of monetary policy remains accommodative," the policymakers said in a generally optimistic economic assessment.  

Coupled with "robust" growth in productivity, or output per hour worked, low interest rates were still supporting economic activity, the central bank chiefs said.  

Rising oil prices had failed to prevent moderate growth in the world's biggest economy, they said, and "labor market conditions continue to improve gradually."  

The US economy churned out 112,000 jobs in November, disappointing economists after a surge of 303,000 new jobs in October.  

"Inflation and longer-term inflation expectations remain well contained," the central bank said. A threat of higher inflation could prod the bank to raise rates faster.  

Federal Reserve chairman Alan Greenspan and his colleagues said the risks to the outlook for the economy and inflation appeared balanced for the next few quarters.  

"The committee believes that policy accommodation can be removed at a pace that is likely to be measured," the central bank said, a clear sign of further small interest rate increases ahead.  

"Nonetheless, the committee will respond to changes in economic prospects as needed to fulfill its obligation to maintain price stability."  

The euro rose to 1.3307 dollars shortly after the decision from 1.3292 beforehand. Lower interest rates should tend to reduce returns on US investments and the demand for dollars to buy them.  

Ten-year US Treasury bond interest rates fell to 4.159 percent from 4.170 percent just before the decision.  

"I think the Fed believes the economy is on cruise control right now, boosted by accommodative monetary policy, and that it still sees the need to move interest rates closer to neutral levels," said BMO Financial Group senior economist Sal Guatieri.  

He expected the central bank to raise interest rates by the same quarter-point margin at the next two meetings -- February 1-2, and March 22 -- and then pause to check the economic impact, resuming rate increases later in 2005.  

Reaching a neutral interest rate would require raising the key rate by another two percentage points from today's level, Guatieri said.  

Joel Naroff, president of Naroff Economic Advisors, agreed the bank would move again next year.  

"Until we see a significant change in the statement, we should assume that the Fed will continue to raise rates at a measured pace," he said. "I would not be surprised if that happens at just about every meeting next year."  

Evidence of the stimulatory effects of US interest rates emerged Tuesday in latest trade figures, which revealed a huge US appetite for foreign-made imports.  

The deficit expanded to 55.5 billion dollars in October from 50.9 billion dollars in September as Americans guzzled imports, particularly from China, and oil prices sizzled.  

"The main problem here is that interest rates still remain low enough in the United States that the country is pulling in imports at a record pace and that continues to widen the trade deficit, which subtracts from economic growth," Guatieri said.  

Federal Reserve policymakers also agreed to raise the discount rate, at which the central bank lends to commercial banks, by a quarter percentage point to 3.25 percent.  

cg-djw/ch  
   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPDUS | economy | bank | rates sched | 3rdlead   PUBAgence France Presse   ANDocument AFPR000020041214e0ce00kwt  



 HDUS raises key  interest rate  to choke inflation     BYCG     WC595 words   PD14 December 2004   ET21:59   SNAgence France Presse   SCAFPR   LAEnglish   CYCopyright Agence France-Presse, 2004 All reproduction and presentation rights reserved.  
   LPWASHINGTON, Dec 14 (AFP) -  

US Federal Reserve chiefs boosted short-term interest rates Tuesday for the fifth time in a row, warning of higher rates in 2005 as they abandon easy money to head off inflation.  
   TDThe Federal Open Market Committee voted unanimously to raise the federal funds target rate, which commercial banks charge each other overnight, by a quarter percentage point to 2.25 percent.  

It means short-term US interest rates exceed those in the eurozone for the first time since early 2001.  

"The committee believes that, even after this action, the stance of monetary policy remains accommodative," the policymakers said, a clear hint that more must still be done to quit the days of cheap credit.  

Coupled with "robust" growth in productivity, or output per hour worked, low interest rates were still supporting economic activity, the central bank chiefs said.  

Rising oil prices had failed to prevent moderate growth in the world's biggest economy, they said, and "labor market conditions continue to improve gradually."  

The US economy churned out 112,000 jobs in November, disappointing economists and forcing the bank to temper its language slightly after a surge of 303,000 new jobs in October.  

"Inflation and longer-term inflation expectations remain well contained," the central bank said. A threat of higher inflation could prod the bank to raise rates faster, curbing credit.  

Federal Reserve chairman Alan Greenspan and his colleagues said the risks to the outlook for the economy and inflation appeared balanced for the next few quarters.  

"With underlying inflation expected to be relatively low, the committee believes that policy accommodation can be removed at a pace that is likely to be measured," the central bank said.  

"Nonetheless, the committee will respond to changes in economic prospects as needed to fulfill its obligation to maintain price stability."  

The euro rose to 1.3307 dollars shortly after the decision from 1.3292 beforehand. Lower interest rates should tend to reduce returns on US investments and the demand for dollars to buy them.  

Ten-year US Treasury bond interest rates fell to 4.159 percent from 4.170 percent just before the decision.  

"I think the Fed believes the economy is on cruise control right now, boosted by accommodative monetary policy, and that it still sees the need to move interest rates closer to neutral levels," said BMO Financial Group senior economist Sal Guatieri.  

He expected the central bank to raise interest rates by the same quarter-point margin at the next two meetings -- February 1-2, and March 22 -- and then pause to check the economic impact, resuming rate increases later in 2005.  

Reaching a neutral interest rate would require raising the key rate by another two percentage points from today's level, Guatieri said.  

Evidence of the stimulatory effects of US interest rates emerged Tuesday in latest trade figures, which revealed a huge US appetite for foreign-made imports.  

The deficit expanded to 55.5 billion dollars in October from 50.9 billion dollars in September as Americans guzzled imports, particularly from China, and oil prices sizzled.  

"The main problem here is that interest rates still remain low enough in the United States that the country is pulling in imports at a record pace and that continues to widen the trade deficit, which subtracts from economic growth," Guatieri said.  

Federal Reserve policymakers also agreed to raise the discount rate, at which the central bank lends to commercial banks, by a quarter percentage point to 3.25 percent.  

cg-djw/jjc  
   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPDUS | economy | bank | rates 2ndlead   PUBAgence France Presse   ANDocument AFPR000020041214e0ce00jzh  



 HDUS raises key  interest rate  to choke inflation     BYCG     WC594 words   PD14 December 2004   ET21:44   SNAgence France Presse   SCAFPR   LAEnglish   CYCopyright Agence France-Presse, 2004 All reproduction and presentation rights reserved.  
   LPWASHINGTON, Dec 14 (AFP) -  

US Federal Reserve chiefs boosted short-term interest rates Tuesday for the fifth time in a row, warning of higher rates in 2005 as it abandons easy money to head off inflation.  
   TDThe Federal Open Market Committee voted unanimously to raise the federal funds target rate, which commercial banks charge each other overnight, by a quarter percentage point to 2.25 percent.  

It means short-term US interest rates exceed those in the eurozone for the first time since early 2001.  

"The committee believes that, even after this action, the stance of monetary policy remains accommodative," the policymakers said, a clear hint that more must still be done to quit the days of cheap credit.  

Coupled with "robust" growth in productivity, or output per hour worked, low interest rates were still supporting economic activity, the central bank chiefs said.  

Rising oil prices had failed to prevent moderate growth in the world's biggest economy, they said, and "labor market conditions continue to improve gradually."  

The US economy churned out 112,000 jobs in November, disappointing economists and forcing the bank to temper its language slightly after a surge of 303,000 new jobs in October.  

"Inflation and longer-term inflation expectations remain well contained," the central bank said. A threat of higher inflation could prod the bank to raise rates faster, curbing credit.  

Federal Reserve chairman Alan Greenspan and his colleagues said the risks to the outlook for economy and inflation appeared balanced for the next few quarters.  

"With underlying inflation expected to be relatively low, the committee believes that policy accommodation can be removed at a pace that is likely to be measured," the central bank said.  

"Nonetheless, the committee will respond to changes in economic prospects as needed to fulfill its obligation to maintain price stability."  

The euro rose to 1.3307 dollars shortly after the decision from 1.3292 beforehand. Lower interest rates should tend to reduce returns on US investments and the demand for dollars to buy them.  

Ten-year US Treasury bond interest rates fell to 4.159 percent from 4.170 percent just before the decision.  

"I think the Fed believes the economy is on cruise control right now, boosted by accommodative monetary policy, and that it still sees the need to move interest rates closer to neutral levels," said BMO Financial Group senior economist Sal Guatieri.  

He expected the central bank to raise interest rates by the same quarter-point margin at the next two meetings -- February 1-2, and March 22 -- and then pause to check the economic impact, resuming rate increases later in 2005.  

Reaching a neutral interest rate would require raising the key rate by another two percentage points from today's level, Guatieri said.  

Evidence of the stimulatory effects of US interest rates emerged Tuesday in latest trade figures, which revealed a huge US appetite for foreign-made imports.  

The deficit expanded to 55.5 billion dollars in October from 50.9 billion dollars in September as Americans guzzled imports, particularly from China, and oil prices sizzled.  

"The main problem here is that interest rates still remain low enough in the United States that the country is pulling in imports at a record pace and that continues to widen the trade deficit, which subtracts from economic growth," Guatieri said.  

Federal Reserve policymakers also agreed to raise the discount rate, at which the central bank lends to commercial banks, by a quarter percentage point to 3.25 percent.  

cg-djw/kd  
   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPDUS | economy | bank | rates lead   PUBAgence France Presse   ANDocument AFPR000020041214e0ce00jr5  



 HDUS raises key  interest rate  to choke inflation     BYCG     WC502 words   PD14 December 2004   ET21:11   SNAgence France Presse   SCAFPR   LAEnglish   CYCopyright Agence France-Presse, 2004 All reproduction and presentation rights reserved.  
   LPWASHINGTON, Dec 14 (AFP) -  

The US Federal Reserve on Tuesday boosted short-term interest rates for the fifth time in a row, warning of higher rates in 2005 as they abandon easy money to head off inflation.  
   TDThe Federal Open Market Committee voted unanimously to raise the federal funds target rate, which commercial banks charge each other overnight, by a quarter percentage point to 2.25 percent.  

It means short-term US interest rates exceed those in the eurozone for the first time since early 2001.  

"The committee believes that, even after this action, the stance of monetary policy remains accommodative," the central bank chiefs said, a clear hint that more must still be done to quit the days of easy credit.  

Coupled with "robust" growth in productivity, or output per hour worked, low interest rates were still supporting economic activity, the central bank chiefs said.  

Rising oil prices had failed to prevent moderate growth in the world's biggest economy, they said, and "labor market conditions continue to improve gradually."  

The US economy churned out 112,000 jobs in November, disappointing economists and forcing the bank to temper its language slightly after a surge of 303,000 new jobs in October.  

"Inflation and longer-term inflation expectations remain well contained," the central bank said. A threat of higher inflation could prod the bank to raise rates faster, curbing credit.  

Federal Reserve chairman Alan Greenspan and his colleagues said the risks to the outlook for economy and inflation appeared balanced for the next few quarters.  

"With underlying inflation expected to be relatively low, the committee believes that policy accommodation can be removed at a pace that is likely to be measured," the central bank said.  

"Nonetheless, the committee will respond to changes in economic prospects as needed to fulfill its obligation to maintain price stability."  

The euro rose to 1.3307 dollars shortly after the decision from 1.3292 beforehand. Lower interest rates should tend to reduce returns on US investments and the demand for dollars to buy them.  

Ten-year US Treasury bond interest rates fell to 4.159 percent from 4.170 percent just before the decision.  

"I think the Fed believes the economy is on cruise control right now, boosted by accommodative monetary policy, and that it still sees the need to move interest rates closer to neutral levels," said BMO Financial Group senior economist Sal Guatieri.  

He expected the central bank to raise interest rates by the same quarter-point margin at the next two meetings -- February 1-2, and March 22 -- and then pause to check the economic impact, resuming rate increases later in 2005.  

Reaching a neutral interest rate would require raising the key rate by another two percentage points from today's level, Guatieri said.  

Federal Reserve policymakers also agreed to raise the discount rate, at which the central bank lends to commercial banks, by a quarter percentage point to 3.25 percent.  

cg-djw/tw  
   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPDUS | economy | bank | rates new | series   PUBAgence France Presse   ANDocument AFPR000020041214e0ce00j7p  



 HDUS raises key  interest rate  to 2.25 percent     BYDJW     WC71 words   PD14 December 2004   ET20:17   SNAgence France Presse   SCAFPR   LAEnglish   CYCopyright Agence France-Presse, 2004 All reproduction and presentation rights reserved.  
   LPWASHINGTON, Dec 14 (AFP) -  

US Federal Reserve policymakers Tuesday raised key short-term interest rates for the fifth time in a row, curbing easy credit in a pre-emptive blow against inflation.  
   TDThe Federal Open Market Committee raised the federal funds target rate, which commercial banks charge each other overnight, by a quarter percentage point to 2.25 percent.  

djw/mac  
   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPDUS | economy | bank | rates | rise lead   PUBAgence France Presse   ANDocument AFPR000020041214e0ce00i7n  



 HD Federal Reserve  opens meeting, tipped to raise rates     BYCG     WC488 words   PD14 December 2004   ET17:25   SNAgence France Presse   SCAFPR   LAEnglish   CYCopyright Agence France-Presse, 2004 All reproduction and presentation rights reserved.  
   LPWASHINGTON, Dec 14 (AFP) -  

US Federal Reserve policymakers met here Tuesday, poised to raise key interest rates to remove some of the cheap-money stimulus washing through the economy.  
   TDFederal Reserve policymakers are expected to raise the federal funds target rate, which commercial banks charge each other overnight, by a quarter point to 2.25 percent, analysts said.  

It would be the fifth consecutive meeting to raise rates.  

A written decision by the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) is due at about 2:15 pm (1915 GMT).  

"The FOMC is expected to announce another 25 basis point rate hike this afternoon, taking the target funds rate to 2.25 percent," Morgan Stanley economist David Greenlaw said.  

"We believe that monetary policy is transitioning to a somewhat more data dependent environment but there has been sufficient ammunition in the incoming figures to avoid any pause in the tightening campaign," he added.  

"The official statement is expected to be basically unchanged from prior versions -- aside from the usual minor tweaks to the description of the current economic environment."  

Speculation of a pause in the central bank's promise of a "measured" increase in rates had been fed by the unexpectedly weak US employment report for November.  

Retail sales, however, appeared to have been stronger in November than initially feared.  

Stripping out motor vehicle sales, which fell 1.3 percent, US retail sales advanced by a solid 0.5 percent in November, gaining on a broad front, a government report showed Monday.  

Cementing expectations of a rate increase, a government report Tuesday showed the US trade deficit unexpectedly shot to a record 55.5 billion dollars in October as Americans sucked in more imports.  

In November alone, imports of goods and services rose 3.4 percent to a record 153.5 billion dollars, as consumers devoured foreign-made goods with the benefit of extraordinarily low interest rates.  

The import surge swamped a 0.6-percent rise in exports to a record 98.1 billion dollars.  

"The main problem here is that interest rates still remain low enough in the United States that the country is pulling in imports at a record pace and that continues to widen the trade deficit, which subtracts from economic growth," BMO Financial Group senior economist Sal Guatieri said.  

"We have seen part of the so-called trade correction story with the US dollar falling now but the second part is interest rates have to move back to more normal levels to curb domestic demand and import growth."  

US Federal Reserve chairman Alan Greenspan has given broad hints that the interest rate is headed higher.  

Wells Fargo Bank senior economist Bill Natcher said the central bank seemed locked on course to raise rates, noting Federal Reserve chairman Alan Greenspan's recent comment that anyone not bracing for higher interest rates was "desirous of losing money."  

cg-djw/mac  
   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPDUS | economy | rates | bank sched   PUBAgence France Presse   ANDocument AFPR000020041214e0ce00etf  



 HDFed Statement on  Interest Rate  Boost     BYBy The Associated Press     WC354 words   PD14 December 2004   ET20:35   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2004.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.  
   LPThe statement issued Tuesday by the Federal Open Market Committee explaining its decision to boost a key short-term interest rate.  

------  
   TDThe Federal Open Market Committee decided today to raise its target for the federal funds rate by 25 basis points to 2 1/4 percent.  

The committee believes that, even after this action, the stance of monetary policy remains accommodative and, coupled with robust underlying growth in productivity, is providing ongoing support to economic activity. Output appears to be growing at a moderate pace despite the earlier rise in energy prices, and labor market conditions continue to improve gradually. Inflation and longer-term inflation expectations remain well contained.  

The committee perceives the upside and downside risks to the attainment of both sustainable growth and price stability for the next few quarters to be roughly equal. With underlying inflation expected to be relatively low, the Committee believes that policy accommodation can be removed at a pace that is likely to be measured. Nonetheless, the Committee will respond to changes in economic prospects as needed to fulfill its obligation to maintain price stability. Voting for the FOMC monetary policy action were: Alan Greenspan, chairman; Timothy F. Geithner, vice chairman; Ben S. Bernanke; Susan S. Bies; Roger W. Ferguson, Jr.; Edward M. Gramlich; Thomas M. Hoenig; Donald L. Kohn; Cathy E. Minehan; Mark W. Olson; Sandra Pianalto; and William Poole.  

In a related action, the Board of Governors unanimously approved a 25 basis point increase in the discount rate to 3 1/4 percent. In taking this action, the Board approved the requests submitted by the Boards of Directors of the Federal Reserve Banks of Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, Minneapolis, Kansas City, Dallas, and San Francisco.  

In addition, the Committee unanimously decided to expedite the release of its minutes. Beginning with this meeting, the minutes of regularly scheduled meetings will be released three weeks after the date of the policy decision. The first set of expedited minutes will be released at 2 p.m. EST on January 4, 2005.  
   RF7   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagpf1apon | sel----- | catf | 1310   IPDFinancial/Business | Fed Statement | D86VK17G0   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020041214e0ce00ea0  



 HDAnother quarter-percent rate increase likely from Fed's interest meeting     BYBy JEANNINE AVERSA     CRAssociated Press Writer   WC610 words   PD14 December 2004   ET15:11   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2004.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.  
   LPWASHINGTON (AP) - Federal Reserve policy-makers probably will keep pushing up short-term interest rates into 2005 so that a relatively spirited U.S. economy doesn't produce unwanted inflation down the road.  

While the frequency of expected rate increases next year will depend on how economic activity and inflation unfold in the coming months, private economists say consumers and businesses should prepare themselves for higher interest rates.  
   TDWith the economy moving solidly ahead, Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan and his colleagues will continue to boost a key short-term interest rate, which had been at extraordinarily low levels, to a more normal level. The pre-emptive increases should help protect the economy against a dangerous inflation flare-up.  

Against that backdrop, economists predict Greenspan and his colleagues will increase the target for the federal funds rate to 2.25 percent from 2 percent on Tuesday, their last regularly scheduled session of 2004. The meeting got under way in the morning; an afternoon announcement was expected.  

That would mark the fifth increase this year in the funds rate, the interest banks charge each other on overnight loans. That rate is the Fed's main tool for influencing economic activity.  

"The Fed will do what it has advertised for some time, raising short-term interest rates at a measured pace," said Anthony Chan, senior economist at JPMorgan Fleming Asset Management. "I also think the Fed will give the message that it doesn't see any significant turbulence ahead to deviate from that path."  

A quarter-point increase in the funds rate would mean that commercial banks' prime lending rate, the benchmark for many short-term consumer and business loans, would climb to 5.25 percent, from 5 percent. The prime rate moves in lockstep with the funds rate.  

Since June, when the Fed's rate-raising campaign started, each of its four rate moves have been quarter-point increases. Before the Fed acted in June, the funds rate had stood at 1 percent, a 46-year low. Extra-low rates had been used as a tonic to help the economy recover from the 2001 recession.  

These days the economy is back in a groove. Economic growth increased at an annual rate of 3.9 percent in the July-to-September quarter. Some analysts believe it is expanding at a slightly faster pace in the current October-to-December quarter.  

Economists are heartened that high energy prices haven't seriously sapped the spending of consumers, the economy's lifeblood.  

A report, issued by the government Monday, revealed shoppers pushed up sales at the nation's retailers by a strong 0.8 percent in October and by 0.1 percent in November. People cut back on automobile purchases, but November's showing still was better than the flat performance analysts were forecasting.  

"People seem to be buying enough to keep consumption solid this quarter," said Joel Naroff, president of Naroff Economic Advisors.  

Naroff expects the Fed's assessment of the economy, which will come in a statement after Tuesday's meeting, to be relatively positive, something that would hold the door open to further rate increases. "The committee should provide little support for the view that there may be a pause in the rate hike process anytime soon," Naroff said.  

There are eight scheduled Fed meetings in 2005; the first is Feb. 1-2.  

Most economists believe the Fed will stick with its current approach of gradually raising interest rates. While inflation is creeping up, it isn't an immediate threat to the economy, analysts said.  
   RF7   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagpf1wcat | sel----- | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | NA FIN US Fed Interest Rates | D86VF9B00   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020041214e0ce008vo  



 HDUPDATE 2-INSTANT VIEW-Stocks-Fed Funds rate raised to 2.25 pct.      WC493 words   PD14 December 2004   ET20:33   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2004 Reuters Limited   
   LPNEW YORK, Dec 14 (Reuters) - The Federal Reserve on Tuesday raised the benchmark federal funds rate by a quarter point to 2.25 percent - matching market forecasts - in its fifth interest rate increase this year.   

U.S. stock indexes nudged higher in the immediate aftermatch of the announcement.   
   TDFollowing are comments from equity market analysts and strategists on the Fed's decision:   

ED YARDENI, CHIEF INVESTMENT STRATEGIST, OAK ASSOCIATES LTD., AKRON, OHIO:   

So they are now starting to achieve what they set to accomplish earlier this year, which is to get the Fed Funds rate from well below the inflation rate to some safe margin above inflation. I think that could move them to 3 percent by the middle of the year. The statement says they probably satisfied by the how the economy is performing. They're satisfied with the growth, and that the same time they're convinced it's not keeping alive inflation.   

JONATHAN GOLUB, US EQUITY STRATEGIST JP MORGAN FUNDS:   

"The rate cut was clearly anticipated by the market and one change in the economic information since the last Fed announcenment was that energy prices has come down, which should create greater economic growth.   

The Fed said nothing surprising. Whatever happens to the market today it will not be because of the Fed's announcement."   

JOHN CANALLY, SENIOR INVESTMENT STRATEGIST, PNC ADVISORS, PHILADELPHIA:   

"The language did not change all that, they said the labor markets have improved gradually instead of just improved.   

"The market will like the fact they they kept the measured pace. It keeps the Fed consisaitent. Now the question is do they pause now, after the February meeting, do they keep raising through mid year. The market consensus on that is pretty evenly spilt. Our take is they will end the year with rates close 3.25 percent."   

JEFFREY SAUT, CHIEF INVESTMENT STRATEGIST, RAYMOND JAMES FINANCIAL, ST PETERSBURG, FLORIDA:   

"It is completely as advertized. Wall Street got it right this time.   

"I continue to be of the view that the economy is going to muddle forward and economic growth is not as strong as some think it is.   

"We are going to just kind of limp along."   

BILL STRAZZULLO, CHIEF TRADING STRATEGIST AT STATE STREET CORP IN BOSTON:   

"The Fed statement is virtually identical to the one issued in November. At this point, you would have to believe they will continue to raise the funds rate at a gradual pace. There is nothing new in the statement for the stock market so one has to assume that the path of least resistance is still higher prices."   

STEVE NEIMETH - PORTFOLIO MANAGER, AIG SUNAMERICA ASSET MANAGEMENT:   

"There's no change in the Fed stance or their language which should be a minor relief to the market. I think equities will rally on this news. Equity valuations look very attractive in an environment of moderate rate rises."    
   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCN2K:BNK | N2K:CEN | N2K:D | N2K:E | N2K:FED | N2K:FIN | N2K:INT | N2K:MUNI | N2K:STX | N2K:U | N2K:US | N2K:XX   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument LBA0000020041214e0ce00ew6  



 HDINSTANT VIEW-Stocks-Fed raises rates for a 5th time this year.      WC109 words   PD14 December 2004   ET20:21   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2004 Reuters Limited   
   LPNEW YORK, Dec 14 (Reuters) - The Federal Reserve on Tuesday raised the benchmark federal funds rate by a quarter point to 2.25 percent - matching market forecasts - in its fifth interest rate increase this year.   

Following are comments from equity market analysts and strategists on the Fed's decision:   
   TDSTEVE NEIMETH - PORTFOLIO MANAGER, AIG SUNAMERICA ASSET MANAGEMENT:   

"There's no change in the Fed stance or their language which should be a minor relief to the market. I think equities will rally on this news. Equity valuations look very attractive in an environment of moderate rate rises."    
   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCN2K:BNK | N2K:CEN | N2K:D | N2K:E | N2K:FED | N2K:FIN | N2K:INT | N2K:MUNI | N2K:STX | N2K:U | N2K:US | N2K:XX   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument LBA0000020041214e0ce00eqp  
 Page 1 of 1      2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.


 

 Page 1      2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.

