 


 HDSeoul shares fall by noon on U.S. rate worries.      WC494 words   PD23 March 2005   ET04:19   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2005 Reuters Limited   
   LP
 
    SEOUL, March 23 (Reuters) - Seoul shares fell 1.2 percent by
noon on Wednesday, led by exporters such as LG Electronics, after
the Federal Reserve said U.S. inflation risks had picked up,
setting off worries about more aggressive interest rate hikes
ahead.
    Foreign investors remained sellers for the 15th consecutive
session, unloading a net of 56.6 billion won in shares, amid
market talk overseas funds were deserting emerging markets.
    "Everybody is showing great concern about the Fed's mention
of inflation, and the impact is more psychological than anything
else," said Jon Byeong-seo, head of research at Daewoo
Securities.
 
    The benchmark Korea Composite Stock Price Index (KOSPI)
  fell 1.24 percent to 968.30 by 0300 GMT.
    As expected, the Federal Reserve raised U.S. interest rates
on Tuesday by a quarter percentage point and repeated in their
statement that they would keep rate rises at a "measured" pace.
    But U.S.
   
   TD
 policy makers also subtly changed their wording to
make clear they were not complacent about prices, giving
themselves leeway to act swiftly if necessary.
    Wall Street tumbled as a result, with the Nasdaq falling to
its lowest close since Nov. 2
    Shares in key exporters fell, with LG Electronics Inc.
   


 , the world's top maker of air conditioners, down 2.23
   


percent to 65,900 won, while South Korea's number two auto maker,
   


Kia Motors Corp. , fell 1.69 percent to 14,500 won.
   


Other blue chips also lost ground, amid worries that a firm
   


trend in oil prices could snuff out tentative signs of a consumer
   


demand-led economic recovery, and that higher U.S. inflation
   


would hurt exports.
   


"The views on the economy are shifting from positive to
   


negative, and investors are booking whatever profits they can and
   


sitting out the uncertainty," said Kim Hyun-tae, a fund manager
   


 
    South Korea is the world's fourth-biggest buyer of crude oil
and must import all of its oil needs.
    Kookmin Bank            , South Korea's top lender, fell 2.2
percent to 44,550 won, while top local fixed line and broadband
provider KT Corp.  dropped 1.46 percent to 40,600 won.
    Hyundai Department Store Co. Ltd.            , South Korea's
number two department store chain, dipped 2.6 percent to 43,150
won.
    Foreign investors continued their selling spree, and are now
close to matching the 17 consecutive sessions in which they net
sold shares from November to December in 2004.
    Dealers speculated foreign investors, led by hedge funds and
   


short-term investors, could be withdrawing from emerging markets
   


and chasing higher yielding investments elsewhere amid the
   


uncertainties over higher oil prices, dollar movements, and a
   


possible aggressive pace of interest rate hikes in the United
   


States.
   


"The market is about to enter a stabilisation period, trading
   


within narrow ranges until earnings announcements start early
   


next month," said Daewoo's Jon.
   


($1=1,012.6 Won).
   
   NSm11 : Equity Markets | e1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REdevgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | skorea : South Korea | asiaz : Asia | easiaz : Eastern Asia | usa : United States | namz : North America   IPCN2K:.KS | N2K:APL | N2K:ASIA | N2K:AUT | N2K:BNK | N2K:DNP | N2K:DRV | N2K:E | N2K:ELC | N2K:ELI | N2K:EMRG | N2K:KR | N2K:MF | N2K:PMF | N2K:PTD | N2K:RET | N2K:RICCODE:000270.KS | N2K:RICCODE:060000.KS | N2K:RICCODE:066570.KS | N2K:RNP | N2K:STX   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument LBA0000020050323e13n002be  



 CLMTuesday's Markets   HDStocks Decline As Fed Delivers Murky Message   BYBy Peter A. McKay    WC502 words   PD23 March 2005   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGC1   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 2005, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LPMIXED SIGNALS FROM the Federal Reserve regarding inflation damped the stock market's buoyant mood, sending major indexes lower.

After rising early in the day, the Dow Jones Industrial Average lost 94.88 points, or 0.9%, to end at 10470.51. The Nasdaq Composite Index fell 0.9%, or 18.17 points, to 1989.34. And the Standard &Poor's 500-stock average dropped 1%, or 12.07 points, to 1171.71.
   TDThe selloff came despite flagging prices for Treasurys and other bonds as well as crude oil, factors that typically would support stocks. Oil futures dropped 2.5%, or $1.43, to $56.03 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange amid expectations of rising inventories and increased output by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries.

Oil's decline boosted stocks throughout the morning and early afternoon. But key stock indicators quickly reversed into negative territory after the Fed's policy-making committee announced a quarter-point increase in its key interest rate, to 2.75%.

Everyone expected the rate move. Investors were concentrating instead on the central bank's accompanying statement for any sign it might move more aggressively in the future to stem a general rise in consumer prices. The Fed said it would likely continue to increase rates at a "measured" pace -- language that has been used previously to signal a succession of modest, quarter-point increases.

But the Fed's statement also included this: "Though longer-term inflation expectations remain well contained, pressures on inflation have picked up in recent months and pricing power is more evident" -- a reference to sellers' flexibility to extract higher costs from consumers for various goods and services.

That language left plenty of room for interpretation, but investors seemed to conclude it didn't say good things about future Fed action.

Strategist Jim Russell, of Fifth-Third Bank, said the announcement provided little clarity about whether the Fed's next rate increase will be a quarter or half percentage point. "The market really wants clarity regarding that question right now," Mr. Russell said. "The market is less nervous about what happened today than it is about what happens next."

Outside the U.S., stocks rose in dollar terms. The Dow Jones World Stock Index, excluding U.S. stocks, increased 0.26 point, or 0.2% to 175.92.

In major U.S. market action:

Stocks fell. On the Big Board, where nearly 1.7 billion shares traded, 2,382 stocks fell and 941 rose.

Bonds fell. The 10-year Treasury note fell 25/32, or $7.8125 for each $1,000 invested, pushing the yield up to 4.627%. The 30-year bond fell 1 4/32 to yield 4.901%.

The dollar rose. Against the Japanese currency, it rose to 105.56 yen from 105.09 yen. The euro fell to $1.3088 from $1.3170. 



License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   NSm11 : Equity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | e1202 : Interest Rates | gpersf : Personal Finance | gvtre : Treasury Department | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m131 : Money Markets | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | mntdbt : National Government Debt/Bond Markets | nsum : News Digest | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | glife : Living/Lifestyle | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | gvexe : Executive Branch | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | niwe : IWE Filter   REjap : Japan | usa : United States | asiaz : Asia | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America   IPCPIC | TRE | USG | STT | JPY | NND | TPX | USD | MIM | PMK | TFR | TPT   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument J000000020050323e13n0003r  


 SEThe Economy   HDFed Lifts Rates, Warns on Inflation --- First Concerns About Prices In 4 Years Could Presage End of `Measured' Boosts   BYBy Greg Ip    WC805 words   PD23 March 2005   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGA2   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 2005, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LPWASHINGTON -- The Federal Reserve nudged interest rates higher, as expected, but signaled for the first time in more than four years that it is concerned with inflation.

The shift in tone raises the prospect that the Fed could accelerate the pace of rate increases, though not just yet. It raised its target for the federal-funds rate, charged on overnight loans between banks, to 2.75% from 2.5%, its seventh quarter-point increase since June. It also repeated, as it has since last May, that it expects to raise rates at a "measured" pace, which markets have taken to mean a quarter of a percentage point per meeting.
   TDBut it said: "Though longer-term inflation expectations remain well contained, pressures on inflation have picked up in recent months and pricing power is more evident." It added that "upside and downside risks" to growth and inflation would be kept "roughly equal" only "with appropriate monetary policy action." That qualifier has been absent from prior statements.

By retaining "measured," the Fed signaled "the most likely scenario is a quarter point per meeting for a number of meetings," said Richard Clarida, economic strategist at New York hedge fund Clinton Group. But "they won't be bound to that" if economic data call for bigger moves.

Laurence Meyer, a former Fed governor who now is an analyst at Macroeconomic Advisers, said the Fed thinks it will raise rates further than it thought just a few months ago.

Futures markets now see a 50% probability of a half-point increase at one of the Fed's next two meetings, and that the rate will top 4% by year end. Those prospects drove the yield on the 10-year Treasury bond up to 4.61% yesterday, the highest in eight months, from 4.51%.

The Fed raised the little-used discount rate, charged on short-term Fed loans to commercial banks, to 3.75% from 3.5%, acting on requests from 10 of the Fed's 12 regional reserve banks. It was unclear why the Kansas City and Dallas banks didn't ask for the quarter-point increase. Their boards may have asked for a larger one.

Some commercial banks raised their prime rate, the benchmark for many consumer and business loans, to 5.75% from 5.5%.

Yesterday's statement was the first since November 2000 in which the Fed has explicitly acknowledged growing inflation risks. From 2001 to 2003, the Fed was preoccupied with either weak economic growth or the risk of outright deflation. For the past year, however, Fed officials believe the U.S. has been at "price stability" -- a zone where inflation, at about 1.5% by their preferred measure, doesn't figure significantly in companies' or households' decisions.

Several factors have since sounded inflation alarm bells.

First, the economic expansion is steadily eating through unused capacity left over from the 2001 recession. Yesterday, the Fed described growth as "solid," instead of "moderate," as it said in February.

Second, the weaker dollar and higher commodity and energy prices are being felt. Yesterday, the Labor Department said producer prices rose 0.4% in February from January, mostly because of sharply higher energy costs. Excluding food and energy, "core" prices rose a more-subdued 0.1%. But excluding a big decline in new-vehicle prices, core prices rose 0.4%. The core index is up 2.8% from a year ago -- a stark turnaround from outright declines two years ago.

Third, after a decade of acceleration, productivity growth slowed sharply late last year. It appears to have rebounded in the current quarter, but remains below the heady growth rates of 2003 and early 2004. Productivity -- that is, output per worker -- determines how costly it is for companies to boost sales.

Some Wall Street analysts thought the Fed would scrap "measured" to give itself more rate flexibility, which some Fed officials also want. Keeping it "softens" the Fed's message, Mr. Meyer said, but it now is clearly subordinate to "the true commitment . . . to price stability."

Mr. Clarida said the Fed might indeed have scrapped "measured" if bond yields had remained as low as they were two months ago. But they shot up after Mr. Greenspan called the low level of yields a "conundrum." Mr. Clarida says that means the bond market is doing more of the Fed's work for it, so the Fed for now can stick with "measured" rate changes.

---

Journal Link: WSJ.com subscribers can see the latest economic reports, and see video of CNBC's Steve Liesman, Pimco's William Gross and others discussing the interest-rate increase, at WSJ.com/JournalLinks. 



License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | ecat : Economic News | gvexe : Executive Branch | m131 : Money Markets | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCPIC | FED | USG | NND | TPX | ECN | LMJ | TPT   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument J000000020050323e13n0003n  


 CLMCredit Markets   HDYields Continue Upward March As Inflation Concerns Mount --- Ten-Year Note Tops 4. 60%, A Higher Level Than When Rate Increases Were Started   BYBy Grainne McCarthy and Agnes T. Crane Dow Jones Newswires    WC1,042 words   PD23 March 2005   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGC4   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 2005, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LPNEW YORK -- The Federal Reserve's admission for the first time in years of concern about inflation has solidified a truism in the Treasury market: Higher yields are here to stay.

The Federal Reserve raised its key interest rate to 2.75%, and stuck to its intention to keep lifting the rate in "measured" increments as the economic recovery gains strength. But Treasury yields, which move inversely to prices, shot higher, spooked by the central bank's worry that "though longer-term inflation expectations remain well contained, pressures on inflation have picked up in recent months and pricing power is more evident."
   TDThe statement marked the first formal admission of concern from the Fed about inflation and appears to contrast with remarks from a host of central-bank officials of late. The government bond market's reaction was to push prices down and yields higher, with the benchmark 10-year yield breaking above 4.60% for the first time since July 2004, as the market braced for the possibility of the Fed raising rates more aggressively than had been expected. The 10-year yield is now above where it was before the Fed started raising rates last June.

The inflation concerns in the statement "are getting us ready for a change in the risk assessment," said Gerald Lucas, head of agency and Treasury strategy at Banc of America Securities.

At 4 p.m. yesterday, the benchmark 10-year note was down 25/32 at 95 2/32. Its yield rose to 4.627% from 4.525% Monday. The 30-year bond was down 1 4/32 point at 106 29/32 to yield 4.901% from 4.828% Monday.

The warning about inflation didn't encourage everyone to sell Treasurys: California-based bond-fund behemoth Pimco picked up $500 million of 10-year Treasurys, managing director Bill Gross told Dow Jones Newswires in an interview. Although the purchase represents only 0.1% of the total $450 billion of assets under management at Pimco, Mr. Gross said "it still reflects an attitude that things are better than they were."

Pimco has been an opportunistic buyer and seller of Treasurys since last year, using a broad range between 4.0% to 5.0% on the 10-year yield to locate where valuations look more or less attractive. Mr. Gross said he estimates fair value for the 10-year note is around 5.50%, but he says ongoing buying by foreign central banks will prevent the benchmark yield from reaching that mark.

In fact, he said investors should brace for a tamer bear market than past experience has taught them as a result of official purchases from Japan and China as well as a Federal Reserve that has kept interest rates accommodative, despite the 1.75 percentage point cumulative rate hikes.

Mr. Gross said the influence of the Fed and the Asian central banks on prices cannot be ignored.

"I wish they [Asian central banks] were out of the game and I wish the Fed were back to its standard practice in terms of higher real short term interest rates," he said, referring to the fact that inflation-adjusted interest rates remain historically low.

The Fed's rate hike comes into a bond market that's arguably much more reflective of the Fed's tightening cycle than at the last policy-setting meeting at the beginning of February. Back then, the 10-year note was yielding around 4.11%; it went as low as 3.98% on Feb. 10.

Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan famously dubbed the resistance of long-term yields to the pull of gravity of the Fed's rate hike cycle a "conundrum," during Congressional testimony last month. He subsequently explained that it was "utterly unprecedented" for long-term interest rates to go down when the Fed was pushing short-term rates higher.

The bond market paid attention, and since Mr. Greenspan mentioned his concerns, has pushed the yield on the 10-year note up over 0.6 percentage point.

The Federal Open Market Committee's statement will likely prompt investors to push yields even higher, arguably rendering returns in the bond market more attractive for money managers who have shunned government bonds for over a year.

"I think there's very little doubt Greenspan intends to wake up the bond market," said Alan Blinder, a former Fed vice chairman who now teaches economics at Princeton University. The central bank's latest statement, Blinder said, "took a big whack out of the `conundrum.'"

"The Fed has launched a wonderfully targeted torpedo at the bond market" and by extension the housing sector "in order to resolve the conundrum," of low long-term rates, said Dominic Konstam, head of interest-rate strategy at Credit Suisse First Boston in New York.

The December three-month eurodollar future contract late yesterday was pricing in a 4.00% federal funds rate by the end of the year, up from a recent estimate of 3.75%. "Fundamentally, the 10-year is heading above 5%," said Mr. Konstam.

A test of last year's peak for the 10-year yield of 4.90%, could usher in more buyers. "The bond market is a lot more attractive at that level versus stocks," said Jim Cusser, portfolio manager at Waddell &Reed in Kansas City, Mo. "It might become a more lucrative bond market for investors."

---

Joseph Rebello and Michael Mackenzie contributed to this article.

--- 


                            AUCTION RESULTS 
 
  Here are the results of the Treasury auction of four-week bills. All bids 
are awarded at a single price at the market-clearing yield. Rates are 
determined by the difference between that price and the face value. 
 
Applications .............................   $42,572,170,000 
Accepted bids ............................   $24,000,290,000 
Accepted noncompetitively ................      $119,670,000 
Accepted frgn noncomp ....................                $0 
Auction price (Rate) ..................... 99.790000 (2.700%) 
Coupon equivalent ........................            2.743% 
Bids at market-clearing yld accepted .....            13.42% 
Cusip number .............................         912795SK8 
 
  The bills are dated March 24, 2005, and mature April 21, 2005. 
   

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   NSm12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mntdbt : National Government Debt/Bond Markets | e1202 : Interest Rates | gvtre : Treasury Department | m131 : Money Markets | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | gvexe : Executive Branch | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCTRE | USG | NND | TPX | CRD | MIM | TPT   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument J000000020050323e13n0003f  



 HDHow to React To Latest Move From the Fed --- Shift in Tone Highlights Need To Review Your Bond Portfolio; The Case for `Laddering'   BYBy Jeff D. Opdyke and Aparajita Saha-Bubna    WC1,015 words   PD23 March 2005   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGD1   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 2005, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LPBONDS AND BOND FUNDS have had a strong run in the past few years, outperforming stocks in many cases. But with the Federal Reserve raising interest rates yesterday for the seventh time since last summer -- and with General Motors Corp. facing a seemingly imminent ratings downgrade -- many experts say it is time for individual investors to take a new look at their old fixed-income strategy.

For many people, this means selling many of the bond mutual funds -- particularly closed-end funds, which are leveraged and therefore riskier -- they have owned for years during bonds' long bull market. It also means ditching the high-yield, or junk, bonds that have performed so well in recent years. Instead, experts are advising investors to create a "laddered" portfolio of bonds with a mix of maturities and to favor bonds that are less sensitive to interest-rate moves, including higher-quality individual corporate, government and municipal bonds.
   TDSuch a strategy will help investors preserve their capital and improve their return, say bond-market pros such as Marilyn Cohen, president of Envision Capital Management, a Los Angeles bond investment firm, who has been preaching this tactic for a year. It also will help ward off potential losses that bond funds are likely to suffer as the Fed pushes interest rates higher.

Yesterday the Fed moved again to raise its benchmark rate by a quarter percentage point, citing rising inflation concerns. The short-term rate -- which influences bank and other lending rates -- stands at 2.75%, up from 1% early last summer.

In reaction, Treasurys were sharply lower across the board. Yields on the 10-year Treasury shot up to 4.63%, up from 4.48% before the rate increase. Meanwhile, corporate bonds shrugged off the Fed's action, choosing instead to focus on GM.

Amid the Fed's previous rate increases, both corporate and Treasury bonds have proven remarkably resilient. That finally could change, given that the Fed is voicing concern about the potential for inflation. As the Fed continues to push short-term rates higher, other cash investments such as money-market funds will look more attractive. That will put additional pressure on the bond market.

Rising interest rates generally bode ill for existing bonds; when bond yields move up, bond prices move down. That is because investors would rather own newer bonds with higher interest rates because they offer greater income.

The Fed's action came days after GM sharply revised its earnings outlook downward, prompting credit-rating firms to re-examine the company's investment-grade debt. That sent the price of the auto maker's bonds sharply lower. It was a warning shot "to investors that the market [for higher-yield bonds] has gotten too rich," says James Swanson, chief investment strategist at Boston's MFS Investment Management.

GM's troubles point to the risks investors likely will face in the emerging environment: As rates rise, lower-quality bonds will lose value more rapidly than will high-quality bonds such as Treasurys and corporate and municipal debt with the highest triple-A rating down to about double-A-minus.

Thus, the so-called laddering strategy. This involves buying several bonds with different maturities. The benefit of this strategy in a rising interest-rate environment is that it keeps your money relatively accessible, because you want to be able to move your cash out of lower-yielding bonds and into the higher yields as rates rise. Yet you don't want all your money in short-term bonds, because the rates still are low, and you don't want it all in short-term Treasurys, which get hit hard when the Fed raises rates.

Instead, Mr. Swanson says, investors should put the bulk of their bond portfolio into short-term, high-grade corporate bonds maturing between two and 10 years, and put a smaller portion in Treasury Inflation Protected Securities with maturities in the two- to seven-year range.

For investors who don't want to do this on their own, brokerage houses such as Morgan Stanley, Merrill Lynch &Co. and others offer separately managed accounts, in which a portfolio of individual securities is chosen and managed for you, including a laddered-bond portfolio. Management fees tend to be about 1% or less of the assets being shepherded.

Smaller investors without a big bankroll should "shift into short-term, low-cost bond funds to ride this out," says Scott Berry, bond-fund analyst at Chicago investment-research firm Morningstar Inc. Two funds the firm rates highly are Fidelity Short-Term Bond and Vanguard Short-Term Bond Index. Both have low management fees compared with their peers, a big plus when returns are thin.

Yet the emerging environment points to the value of owning individual bonds instead of most bond funds. Individual bonds have maturity dates, meaning that you will get back your original investment, and you will have been paid interest along the way. Thus, if you hold until it matures, you won't lose money. (Defaults with high-grade debt are exceedingly rare.)

Bond funds, however, have no maturity date. Thus, as interest rates rise and bond prices fall, the net asset value of the bond fund will fall, too. How far can they fall? In 1994, the average intermediate-term bond fund lost about 4% of its value. Take away the interest income, and they lost nearly 9% of their capital.

---

Journal Link: Read about whether investing in corporate bond funds is a smart move for you, at WSJ.com/PersonalJournal.

--- 


                        A New Bond Strategy 
 
  It's time to rethink your bond strategy. Here's what some 
experts advise: 
 
  -- Build a "laddered" portfolio of high-grade, shorter-term 
     corporate bonds. 
 
  -- Avoid high-yield bonds and closed-end bond funds. 
 
  -- Consider Vanguard Short-Term Bond Index and Fidelity 
     Short-Term Bond, two low-cost funds. 
   

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   INi81401 : Central Banking | i8150211 : Unit Trusts/Mutual Funds | iinv : Investing/Securities | i814 : Banking | i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSm12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | c172 : Corporate Debt Instruments | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | e1202 : Interest Rates | gpersf : Personal Finance | gvexe : Executive Branch | gvtre : Treasury Department | m131 : Money Markets | m16 : Fund Markets | mmuni : Municipal Debt/Bond Markets | c17 : Funding/Capital | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | glife : Living/Lifestyle | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCFED | TRE | USG | FIN | NND | PSJ   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument J000000020050323e13n00038  



 CLMFund Track   HDFed Crimps Closed-End Bond Funds --- Higher Interest Rates Make It Harder to Boost Returns By Using Borrowed Money   BYBy Angela Pruitt    WC568 words   PD23 March 2005   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGC15   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 2005, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LPOnce a hallmark strategy for closed-end bond mutual funds, investing borrowed money in an effort to juice up returns is getting a bad rap as the Federal Reserve continues to raise its target short-term interest rate.

The funds' strategy is to borrow at short-term interest rates and invest the money in long-term, higher-yielding securities. But the rising cost of borrowing, known as leveraging, has forced many funds to cut their dividends.
   TDYesterday, the Federal Reserve raised its target for the federal-funds rate, charged on overnight loans between banks, to 2.75% from 2.5%, and more increases are expected this year.

Closed-end mutual funds hold pools of investments like other mutual funds. But unlike open-end funds, which sell and redeem shares at prices that are set once a day, closed-end funds have a set number of shares that trade all day on exchanges like stocks, often at a discount or premium to the fund's net asset value.

"There are concerns that a fund's net asset value is going to get hurt in leveraged funds when interest rates go up," said Cody Bartlett, an investment strategist for Karpus Investment Management, a big investor in closed-end funds.

Dividends can also be a casualty. Earlier this month, Nuveen Investments Inc., the largest issuer of closed-end funds, said it cut the monthly dividends on 70 of its closed-end funds.

With interest rates rising, funds are taking precautions, including creating some form of a cushion for dividend payments, said Patricia Rosch, director of closed-end funds for Deutsche Asset Management. One popular approach for stock funds is to use so-called covered calls. With this strategy, a fund sells other investors the right, but not the obligation, to buy shares held in its portfolio at a specified price for a specified amount of time. Although a covered call offers limited upside, it provides downside protection while creating income.

"A lot of new funds are brought now without leverage," said Greg Drake, managing director of product development at Claymore Securities Inc. He noted that 10 of the 34 new closed-end funds that have been issued in the past nine months have used the covered-call strategy, rather than borrowing.

Investors are saying, "We don't want the risk of having the fund cutting its dividend," he said.

Many prospectuses from new closed-end funds state that they reserve the right to leverage the fund down the line, if not initially, market observers say.

Since the beginning of September, there have been 22 closed-end-fund initial public offerings, and only four primarily invested in bonds, while three were loan participation funds, according to Thomas J. Herzfeld Advisors.

Of those seven funds, only one is already leveraged, while five can use leverage, the firm said.

Karpus's Mr. Bartlett said leveraged funds will benefit investors over the long haul as long as interest rates of longer-term securities are higher than rates on shorter-term bonds.

"Over a shorter period of time, between one month and six months, the [net asset value] of the leveraged funds would underperform the nonleveraged funds, should interest rates increase significantly," he said. 

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   INi81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles | i8150211 : Unit Trusts/Mutual Funds | i81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | iinv : Investing/Securities   NSm16 : Fund Markets | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | e1202 : Interest Rates | gvexe : Executive Branch | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | nedc : Commentary/Opinion | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCFED | USG | FIN | NND | MFU | MIM   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument J000000020050323e13n0000o  



 HDFT.com site : Eurozone bond prices fall after Fed warns on inflation.   BYJoanna Chung in London    WC208 words   PD23 March 2005   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2005 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPEurozone government bond prices fell and yields climbed higher on Wednesday following the US Federal Reserve's warning of higher inflation risks in the statement accompanying last night's interest rate rise.

The market was widely expecting the Fed to raise its target interest rate by 25 basis points to 2.75 per cent, but its comments about inflation, which were more hawkish than in the past, has sparked fears that interest rates may rise faster, prompting US Treasury yields higher.
   TDIn late morning trading, the yield on the two-year Schatz was 1.3 basis points higher at 2.591 per cent while the yield on the 10-year Bund was up 4.7bp at 3.734 per cent.

UK gilt prices, which mimicked movements in the other markets, also fell under pressure when the minutes of the Bank of England's policy meeting showed that the number of policy committee members who voted to raise the cost of borrow had increased.

The two-year gilt yield was 4.3bp higher at 4.736 per cent while the 10-year gilt also added 4.3bp to 4.821 per cent. 
   RF41369294   INi81401 : Central Banking | i831 : Financial Investments | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | iinv : Investing/Securities   NSm12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mntdbt : National Government Debt/Bond Markets | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1103 : Inflation/Prices | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTCOM00020050324e13n0000u  



 HDRepeat:Talk From The Trenches:Eyes on Fed, Inflation, GM     WC912 words   PD22 March 2005   ET02:34   SNMarket News International   SCMARNEW   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2005. Market News International, Inc.  
   TD
--Retransmitting Story Initially Sent 15:02 ET Monday

By Isobel Kennedy

     NEW YORK, March 21 (MktNews) - There are only three things on the 
minds of U.S. bond traders: what the U.S. Federal Reserve will do at its 
meeting Tuesday; what the producer and consumer prices indices will 
show this week and how much fallout could be felt from General Motors' 
woes. 

     Everyone expects a 25 basis point hike from the Fed, taking federal 
funds to 2.75% from the current 2.50%. But no one knows what the Fed 
will say in the accompanying statement. 

     The bond market is worried the Fed could change the wording to 
indicate more aggressive tightenings ahead. That would be a negative for 
bonds generally and for the widely populated "carry" trade specifically. 
After all, every hike the Fed makes raises the cost of borrowing funds 
and that eats into the net income investors earn. Ramifications will be 
felt in Treasuries, Agencies, corporates, emerging markets and  
mortgage-backeds. 

     Chris Rupkey, economist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi, says some Fed 
officials feel the current Fed phrase, "with underlying inflation 
expected to be relatively low, the Committee believes that policy 
accommodation can be removed at a pace that is likely to be measured," 
puts them in a strait-jacket! 

     But Rupkey rightly points out that the bond market goes back and 
forth on what the removal of "measured" and "accommodative" means. 

     Sometimes the market thinks the removal of these words means the 
Fed could pause, Rupkey says, and sometimes it means the Fed will go in 
more aggressive 50 bps steps. 

     "Currently, dropping measured seems to mean to the market that they 
will go 50 bps" at some point in time, Rupkey says. 

     While some economists feel sure the Fed will change the language 
Tuesday, Rupkey thinks it makes more sense for the Fed to wait until 
federal funds are at a more neutral level, like 3.00%, before changing 
the language to signal how they might proceed in the future. 

     Economists also note that the recent rise in oil prices acts as a 
tax on the consumer and it might mean the Fed has less tightening to do 
because higher oil prices are doing part of the job for them. 

     The bond markets are on alert for inflation to rise and they are 
very skittish. On Tuesday morning, the February producer price index 
comes out, so the Fed will know what it is before they meet. Median 
estimates are for a tame +0.3% overall and +0.2%, ex-food and energy. 
But the January index printed at +0.8% ex-food and energy and spooked 
the bond market badly. 

     And even if the Fed does not change the language at all Tuesday, 
the market will digest the PPI and then sit back and wait to clear the 
next hurdle, the consumer price index release on Wednesday. 

     By the way, no one will be surprised if Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan 
comes up with a new snappy word or phrase to replace the old one. 
"Patient" and "soft patch" and "conundrum" are a few examples. 

     The latest bit of bad news from General Motors concerns the 
possibility of job cuts. Very short-dated GM paper blew out another 100 
bps Monday morning. In some cases, short-dated GM paper is now a 
startling 200 bps wider since last week. 

     Deutsche Bank bond strategists say the recent widening in interest 
rate swaps spreads, to their widest level since late October 2004, is 
partly because of the General Motors issue. 

     "Generally speaking, we are concerned about exposures in the 
investment community to spreads," Deutsche Bank says. "With the 
proliferation of structured credit instruments, there is a lot of 
leveraged exposure to credit spreads and any event that may cause the 
unwinding of the spread trade could filter through to the mortgage 
market as well." 

     And what's the skinny in the foreign exchange market on the Fed and 
General Motors? 

     Stephen Jen, a strategist at Morgan Stanley, said, the temporary 
safe haven bid for U.S. Treasuries and the dollar last week on GM 
jitters "was, to me, another sign that in the event of 'breakage' in the 
global financial system, the dollar still commands the same safe haven 
status, as it has for decades." 

     As the Fed keeps tightening and global liquidity dries up, the 
greenback may benefit also from emerging market outflows, Jen says. 

     "The more the emerging markets have been supported by global 
liquidity rather than indigenous economic fundamentals, the more 
vulnerable their currencies are to Fed tightening," he adds. 

     Foreign exchange strategist Michael Woolfolk at Bank of New York 
says, "the removal of the word 'measured,' used to describe tempered 
pace by which the Fed is removing monetary accommodation, would be 
positive for the dollar as it suggests that the Fed is giving itself 
room to raise rates at a faster pace later this year. 
 
     "On the other hand, removal of the word 'accommodative,' used to 
describe the Fed's current monetary policy position, would be negative 
for the dollar as it suggests that the Fed could pause sooner than 
expected on raising rates," Woolfolk says. 

Vicki Schmelzer contributed. 

     NOTE: Talk From the Trenches is a daily compendium of chatter from 
Treasury trading rooms offered as a gauge of the mood in the financial 
markets. It is not necessarily hard, verified news.  
   COmitfin : Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Inc.   INi814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBMarket News International, Inc.   ANDocument MARNEW0020050322e13m0004a  



 HDAussie bonds at new lows after Fed raises rates.      WC289 words   PD22 March 2005   ET22:37   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2005 Reuters Limited   
   LP
---------------(Snapshot at 7:30 a.m./2030 GMT)----------------
FUTURES                                   CASH YIELD
90-DAY BILL (JUN) 94.00 (- 0.02)  5.86 (5.88)
3-YR BOND          (JUN) 94.18 (- 0.09)             5.80 (5.70)
10-YR BOND  (JUN) 94.180(-0.070)             5.81 (5.74)
 
3/10 SPREAD    0.0 ( +2.0)     AUST/US 10-YR SPREAD +118 (+120)
AUD/USD  0.7836 (0.7847) US 10-YR             4.63 (4.53)
--------------------------(March 23)---------------------------
    *Australian bond futuresfell sharply overnight in the wake
   

of U.S. Treasuries after the Federal Reserve raised interest   
   TDrates, as expected, but also noted a pick-up in inflation   

pressures.   

*The Fed increased rates 0.25 percentage point to 2.75   

percent, the seventh rise since June and the highest rate since   

late 2001.   

*In its policy statement, the Fed kept a reference to   

raising rates at a "measured" pace but added a new sentence   

noting increased pricing power. Analysts interpreted the change   

as a step towards accelerating the pace of tightening without   

being explicit about a change of plan.   

*June 10-year bond futures ended the night session seven   

basis point lower at 94.180, a new eight-month low. Turnover   

was an above-average 10,153 lots. Three-year bond futures fell   

nine points to 94.18, their lowest level this year.   

*June bill futures ended the night session two basis points   

down at 94.00. This remains the lowest level for a spot   

contract since late 2000.   

*Prices may struggle to stage a quick recovery in the   

absence of major local data over the next week and with local   

interest rate rises in early April remaining a possibility.   
   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | mntdbt : National Government Debt/Bond Markets | m15 : Derivative Securities | ntab : Table | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | niwe : IWE Filter   REaustr : Australia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | usa : United States | namz : North America   IPCN2K:ASIA | N2K:AU | N2K:AU/ | N2K:AUF | N2K:D | N2K:DBT | N2K:DNP | N2K:DRV | N2K:GVD | N2K:M | N2K:MF | N2K:PMF | N2K:PTD | N2K:RNP   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument LBA0000020050322e13m00f1r  



 HDUPDATE 3-INSTANT VIEW-Stocks-Fed raises rates for 7th time.      WC773 words   PD22 March 2005   ET20:51   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2005 Reuters Limited   
   LPNEW YORK, March 22 (Reuters) - The Federal Reserve on Tuesday raised the benchmark federal funds rate by a quarter point to 2.75 percent - matching market forecasts - in its seventh consecutive interest rate increase.   

Major U.S. stock indexes fell after the Federal Open Market Committee acknowleged a pick up in inflationary pressures in its statement accompanying the rate increase.   
   TDFollowing are comments from equity market analysts and strategists on the Fed's decision:   

ROGER TUTTEROW, CHIEF ECONOMIC ADVISOR, HENSSLER FINANCIAL GROUP, KENNESAW, GEORGIA:   

"It was widely expected. The 25 basis points pretty much factored in everyone's outlook. The interesting part is that certainly Fed acknowledges higher energy prices in their statetment, but also I think they bascially continue to see some balancing in terms of the upside-downside risk. I think what they will continue to do is to raise by quarter points over the next several meetings and push the federal funds rates to probably three-and-half by the latter part of summer.   

MICHAEL SHELDON, CHIEF MARKET STRATEGIST, SPENCER CLARKE:   

"The Federal Reserve said it was going to continue raising rates at a measured pace while acknowledging that inflation is starting to edge higher. The reason the stock market gave up its gains following the Fed meeting is because some investors are seeing through the Fed's gentle phrasing and are realizing that the Fed is starting to become more serious about fighting inflation."   

STEPHEN CARL, PRINCIPAL AND HEAD OF U.S. EQUITY TRADING, THE WILLIAMS CAPITAL GROUP LP.:   

"They raised rates as expected, but inflation fears and potentially raising twice as much next time" have unsettled the market, he said. "The market's initial response is to take stocks down a little bit."   

BILL STRAZZULLO, CHIEF MARKET STRATEGIST, STATE STREET GLOBAL MARKETS:   

"The pressure is going to build to do something more aggressive," a 50 basis point increase in rates. "This may be    


 
 the first baby step toward that... What I take away from this
 is that, (Greenspan) is telling me that something's on his
 radar screen... That says to me, 'Watch out, there's a good
   

chance in the future we're going to be more aggressive.'"   

PAUL CHERNEY, CHIEF MARKET ANALYST AT STANDARD & POOR'S:   

"The market is not really reacting in a strong fashion. I think it will not make a big market impact. The inclusion of the phrase 'inflation' will worry people that the Fed might become more aggressive but since they have included the phrase 'measured' in their statement I think they will have to telegraph in another meeting ahead before they could raise anything more than 25 basis points.   

"Since they kept 'measured' in the post meeting announcement I think they are telegraphing they will not consider raising another 25 basis points untill they remove that. I don't think they will upset the applecart with any surprise moves."   

JEFFREY SAUT, CHIEF INVESTMENT STRATEGIST, RAYMOND JAMES FINANCIAL, ST. PETERSBURG, FLORIDA:   

"They kept the word 'measured' in there. Policy, they say, is going to be accommodative. I would expect the same kind of statement out of the May 3 meeting.   

"They did comment that there was some pressure on inflation on the upside and there was some pricing power evident.   

"So it's a touch stronger than they said last time, but it's still measured.   

"It was slightly stronger on the inflation and slightly stronger on the ability to get some pricing power."   

AL GOLDMAN, CHIEF MARKET STRATEGIST AT A.G. EDWARDS:   

"The Fed did what the market wanted it to do, raised rates the expected 25 basis points and used the term "measured". Inflation is picking up, they know it and we know it. The question is whether or not it is going to be nasty and we don't think so.   

With Fed reporting as expected and oil down, this is a good excuse to end this eight-day correction. If the market doesn't rally then it means that the correction isn't over yet."   

JOHN PERSON, PRESIDENT OF NATIONAL FUTURES, A MARKET ADVISORY SERVICE IN PALM BEACH, FLORIDA:   

"This report is a very good sign for the market. It shows that the Fed will not be overly aggressive when they kept the word 'measured in their statement. The Fed is being accommodative to allow the economy to expand at a moderate growth rate."   

JEFF KLEINTOP, CHIEF INVESTMENT STRATEGIST, PNC ADVISORS:   

"The big question was whether the phrase 'measured' and 'accommodative' would remain and they did. I think it was exactly what the markets were expecting."    
   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCN2K:BNK | N2K:CEN | N2K:D | N2K:E | N2K:FED | N2K:FIN | N2K:INT | N2K:MUNI | N2K:STX | N2K:U | N2K:US | N2K:XX   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument LBA0000020050322e13m00dqx  



 CLMMonday's Markets   HDGreenspan's Seventh Shot --- The Fed Likely Will Raise Rates, Building on Six Other Increases; Stocks Fall and the Dollar Rallies   BYBy Craig Karmin    WC746 words   PD22 March 2005   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGC1   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 2005, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LPINVESTORS STOPPED worrying about higher oil prices just long enough to start fretting again about higher interest rates.

The Dow Jones Industrial Average stumbled 64.28 points, or 0.6%, to its lowest finish since Feb. 1, while the Nasdaq Composite Index retreated to its lowest close since Nov. 3. The losses came ahead of the Federal Reserve's pivotal meeting today; the Fed's policy makers are expected to raise interest rates, and economists are divided on whether the Fed will signal that the pace of rate increases is about to pick up.
   TDThe increased chance that the Fed will accelerate rate increases helped lift the dollar yesterday to its highest level in two weeks against the euro, with its biggest one-day gain since Jan. 4, as investors speculated that higher rates would make U.S. bonds yields more attractive than foreign-bond yields.

Comments from the Hong Kong Monetary Authority's Joseph Yam also contributed to the dollar's third straight day of gains. Mr. Yam said Asian central banks shouldn't endanger financial markets by selling off dollars to buy more euros too quickly.

Recent signs that Asian central banks are looking to boost their euro holdings at the expense of dollars have been weighing on the U.S. currency for the past several weeks. Oil prices slipped for only the third time over the past 14 sessions. Gold prices, which tend to move in the opposite direction of the dollar, slid 1.9% for their second-worst day this year.

The Dow industrials closed at 10565.39, leaving the blue-chip index down 2% for the year. The broad Standard &Poor's 500-stock index slid 0.5%, or 5.87 points, to 1183.78, off 2.3% this year. The Nasdaq Composite Index fought its way back into positive territory in the afternoon but closed down 0.01%, or 0.28 point, at 2007.51. The tech-stock-heavy index is 7.7% lower for the year.

The Fed is widely expected to raise the benchmark federal-funds rate by a quarter-point to 2.75%, the seventh interest-rate increase since the central bank began the current tightening cycle in June. An announcement typically comes at 2:15 p.m. EST.

Yet since the Fed's policy-setting committee previous meeting in February, concerns about inflation have intensified: Oil prices have moved up steadily, hitting a 22-year high, while the broad commodity index set a 24-year high. A weaker dollar has raised the cost of imports; and job growth has been strong, raising the prospect that wages may accelerate.

All this has raised the likelihood that the Fed will announce its intention to accelerate the pace of future rate increases to ward off inflation. J.P. Morgan put the odds at nearly 50% that the Fed indicates this will be the case.

"There's a lot more attention being paid to what the Fed is going to say this time," notes David Sowerby, a portfolio manager for Loomis Sayles.

Stocks came under pressure from the start, as oil prices began the day up again, with crude rising above $57 a barrel despite assurances from Saudi Arabia that oil producers could decide at any time to add more supply.

When oil prices peaked around midday and then began to fall, stocks bounced off their bottom and tried to rally. But traders said there is a reluctance to buy stocks with this much uncertainty before the Fed meeting.

"Today had a lot of developments that would normally be bullish for stocks," said Steve Massocca, co-chief executive at Pacific Growth Equities in San Francisco. He referred to the dollar's rally and a spurt of merger activity that included IAC/InterActiveCorp.'s agreement to buy search site Ask Jeeves Inc. in a stock deal valued at $1.85 billion. "But none of this seemed to impress the market with the Fed weighing so heavily," he said.

The 10-year Treasury note fell 4/32, or $1.25 per $1,000 invested, pushing the yield up to 4.525%. The dollar strengthened to 105.09 yen, up from 104.71 yen, while the euro fell against the dollar to $1.3170 from $1.3313. 

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   NSm11 : Equity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | e1202 : Interest Rates | gpersf : Personal Finance | gvtre : Treasury Department | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m131 : Money Markets | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | mntdbt : National Government Debt/Bond Markets | nsum : News Digest | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | glife : Living/Lifestyle | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | gvexe : Executive Branch | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | niwe : IWE Filter   REjap : Japan | usa : United States | asiaz : Asia | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America   IPCTRE | USG | STT | JPY | NND | TPX | USD | MIM | PMK | TFR | TPT   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument J000000020050322e13m0003p  



 CLMCredit Markets   HDSelloff of Auto-Industry Bonds Spreads to Unrelated Sectors --- As General Motors Begins To Trade on a Dollar Basis, Investors Scramble for Exits   BYBy Aparajita Saha-Bubna Dow Jones Newswires    WC867 words   PD22 March 2005   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGC4   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 2005, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LPNEW YORK -- After a brief respite late last week, the selloff in auto industry bonds resumed, led by bonds issued by General Motors Corp. and its financing arm, General Motors Acceptance Corp.

The selloff spread from the auto sector to unrelated sectors in the investment-grade market, and, via the auto part suppliers, to the high-yield market.
   TDAs investors continued to worry about the earnings and ratings outlook for the world's largest auto maker, GM's bonds crossed a dubious milestone, trading briefly on a dollar basis during yesterday's session -- a tradition usually reserved for noninvestment-grade debt.

Risk premiums on GM's benchmark 8.375% bonds due 2033 were quoted mid-morning at bid/offer prices of 86/87, translating to bid/offer yield margins of 5.15/5.00 percentage points over comparable Treasurys, 0.35 percentage point wider on the session. Since then, the bonds have partially retraced their losses and were recently quoted at 5.05 percentage points over Treasurys on MarketAxess -- 0.29 point wider on the day.

GM, and to a lesser extent rival Ford Motor Co., have struggled in the competitive environment facing the auto industry in North America. GM last week slashed its earnings outlook for the year and is considering a more aggressive attack on the structural problems at its core auto business, The Wall Street Journal reported yesterday.

Bond investors are scrambling to rid their portfolios of GM bonds, as they worry about a selloff that could occur if GM falls off its investment-grade perch -- a move that many investors expect this year.

"There is great fear in how that transition will take place," said Kevin Murphy, portfolio manager at Putnam Investments, with $66 billion in fixed-income assets.

Jerry Dubrowski, a GM spokesman, said the auto maker is focused on improving the profitability of its North American operations. "I would continue to remind investors that we have a strong cash position and strong liquidity at both GM and GMAC," he said.

Ford officials weren't available to comment.

As befitting its size, GM's woes are rippling through the wider corporate bond market, dragging yield margins wider from the banking sector to the energy industry. The high-yield market sold off sharply too, with the long-suffering auto parts sector the catalyst for the decline.

Foreign Bonds

The Federal Reserve's policy meeting today and nervous secondary markets are casting a shadow over the two Asian borrowers wrapping up bond roadshows this week.

The Indonesian government is meeting investors in Europe and the U.S. through Tuesday, while South Korean fixed-line operator Dacom Corp. is in the final day of marketing on the East and West Coasts of the U.S.

Jitters caused by rising oil prices and GM's profit warning have already caused a delay in bond deals from National Agricultural Cooperative Federation of South Korea and the Thai Military Bank, and many have speculated that the two latest deals may go the same way.

But Indonesia seems better positioned than the others to sell its $1 billion-plus in paper on schedule, say bankers, pointing to solid investor demand for an improving credit that still offers a yield pickup commensurate with its sub-investment-grade rating.

Treasurys

Treasurys exited unchanged to modestly lower as debate surrounding the upcoming meeting of the interest-rate-setting Federal Open Market Committee distracted many market participants from initiating new positions.

The benchmark 10-year note spent most of the session hovering just above 4.50%, the middle of a trading range that has confined the yield between 4.42% and 4.58% over the last two weeks.

At 4 p.m. yesterday, the benchmark 10-year note was down 4/32 or $1.250 per $1,000 face value, at 95 27/32. Its yield rose to 4.525% from 4.509% Friday, as yields move inversely to prices. The 30-year bond was down 8/32 point at 108 1/32 to yield 4.828% from 4.813% Friday. 


 
                             AUCTION RESULTS 
 
  Here are the details of yesterday's auction by the Treasury of 13-week and 
26-week bills. All bids are awarded at a single price at the market-clearing 
yield. Rates are determined by the difference between that price and the 
face value. 
                                    13-Week                 26-Week 
 
Applications .................  $35,995,235,000         $39,831,151,000 
Accepted bids ................  $20,000,165,000         $18,000,391,000 
Accepted noncomp .............   $1,642,091,000          $1,298,851,000 
Accepted frgn non ............     $335,000,000            $285,000,000 
Auction price (Rate) ......... 99.292222(2.800%)       98.465639(3.035%) 
Coupon equivalent ............           2.859%                  3.125% 
Bids at market yield .........           15.29%                  83.60% 
Cusip number .................        912795SU6               912795VS7 
 
  Both issues are dated March 24. The 13-week bills mature June 23, 2005, 
and the 26-week bills mature Sept. 22, 2005.   

---

Agnes T. Crane, Danielle Reed and Karen Lane contributed to this article. 

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   COfrdmo : Ford Motor Company | gnmoc : General Motors Company   INi35101 : Passenger Cars | i7902 : Telecommunications | i351 : Motor Vehicles | iaut : Automobiles   NSm12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mntdbt : National Government Debt/Bond Markets | c172 : Corporate Debt Instruments | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e1202 : Interest Rates | gvtre : Treasury Department | m131 : Money Markets | c17 : Funding/Capital | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | gvexe : Executive Branch | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter   REindon : Indonesia | skorea : South Korea | usa : United States | usmi : Michigan | asiaz : Asia | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America | seasiaz : Southeast Asia | usc : Midwest U.S.   IPCCMR | DJCB | EWR | IGV | TRE | USG | CYC | FIN | NND | TPX | UTI | CRD | MIM   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument J000000020050322e13m0000q  



 HDFT.com site : Treasuries higher as market awaits Fed.   BYJennifer Hughes in New York, Joanna Chung in London and Philip Stafford in Tokyo    WC344 words   PD22 March 2005   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2005 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPUS Treasuries pushed higher and yields dropped on Tuesday as investors digested a reasonably soft report on producer price inflation and awaited the Federal Reserve's interest rate decision.Volatility in General Motors' bonds also encouraged some safe-haven buying of Treasuries.Later, the Fed is expected to raise rates by a quarter-point to 2.75 per cent. There is less certainty about its accompanying statement, particularly whether it will keep the word "measured" to describe its rate rise stance. If it drops the phrase, investors may assume the Fed plans more aggressive monetary tightening in future.Earlier, data showed producer prices rose 0.4 per cent last month, but only 0.1 per cent, excluding food and energy. This helped calm fears that sharply rising inflation would force the Fed to act more aggressively. By late morning in New York, the yield on the two-year note was off 2 basis points at 3.699 per cent.
   TDThe 10-year yield was down 3.6bp at 4.493 per cent.In the UK, gilt prices were higher as yields fell on data showing that the UK annual inflation rate remained steady at 1.6 per cent, despite in spite of sharp rises in transport costs and utility bills. The yield on the two-year gilt was down 3.3bp to 4.707 per cent while the yield on the 10-year gilt was 5.8bp lower at 4.778 per cent.Eurozone government bond prices also went higher, along with the other markets. The yield on the two-year Schatz was edged down 0.8bp to 2.569 per cent while the 10-year Bund yield fell 3.9bp to 3.686 per cent.Japanese government bonds traded cautiously across the range. The benchmark 10-year JGB futures contract was down just 0.04 at 138.30, while the yield was little changed at 1.420 per cent. 
   RF41350708   INi351 : Motor Vehicles | i81401 : Central Banking | i831 : Financial Investments | i814 : Banking | iaut : Automobiles | ibnk : Banking/Credit | iinv : Investing/Securities   NSm12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mntdbt : National Government Debt/Bond Markets | c314 : Pricing | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1103 : Inflation/Prices | e1107 : Retail/Wholesale Sales | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | c31 : Marketing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter   REuk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTCOM00020050323e13m0000z  



 HDFed delivers seventh quarter-point rate increase     BYBy MARTIN CRUTSINGER     CRAP Economics Writer   WC681 words   PD22 March 2005   ET20:56   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2005.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.  
   LPWASHINGTON (AP) - The Federal Reserve on Tuesday pushed a key interest rate up by a quarter-point to 2.75 percent as it continued its campaign to gradually nudge rates high enough to make sure that a rebounding economy does not trigger unwanted inflation.  

The increase in the federal funds rate, the interest that banks charge each other, marked the seventh time the central bank has pushed rates higher since it started its current credit tightening campaign last June. At that time, the funds rate stood at a 46-year low of 1 percent.  
   TDThe Fed kept language that it has used with every rate increase, saying that future rate hikes would occur "at a pace that is likely to be measured," language seen as indicating continued quarter-point moves at the central bank's regular meetings.  

Some economists had suggested that the "measured" pledge might be dropped at this meeting, given the recent surge in oil prices to above $57 per barrel.  

The Fed's action was expected to quickly translate into higher borrowing costs for millions of consumers and businesses with commercial banks matching the quarter-point move by a similar increase in their prime rates. The prime rate has been at 5.5 percent since the Fed's last rate increase on Feb. 2.  

The Fed's brief statement kept the pledge to move rates at a "measured" pace and kept the assessment that the risks going forward were balanced between the threat of inflation and the threat that the economy might soften unexpectedly.  

However, the Fed did indicate somewhat more concern about inflation, saying, "Though longer-term inflation expectations remain well contained, pressures on inflation have picked up in recent months and pricing power is more evident."  

But the Fed said that it did not believe that the rise in energy prices had "notably fed through to core consumer prices."  

Analysts said this comment supported a view voiced by Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan and other Fed officials that while energy prices have been increasing, those higher costs have not triggered higher overall inflation pressures. But economists said they detected slightly more concern about inflation in the Fed's new statement.  

"I think the tone is slightly more hawkish and it could lead to slightly higher interest rates by year's end," said economist David Jones, the author of four books on the Greenspan Fed.  

Wall Street also focused on the Fed's inflation comments. The Dow Jones industrial average, which had been up by 42 points before the Fed's mid-afternoon announcement, dipped into negative territory after the announcement as investors feared more aggressive rate hikes in the months to come.  

Jones said that he now expected the funds rate could be as high as 3.75 percent by the end of the year, meaning one more quarter-point rate increase than he had been expecting before Tuesday's meeting. He said that 30-year mortgage rates, currently near 6 percent, could be at 6.75 percent by year's end, still a low-enough level that the housing industry should remain strong this year.  

Analysts said the Fed had to be pleased by recent signs of economic strength including the report that 262,000 new jobs were created in February, the biggest gain in four months.  

Many economists believe the economy has been growing at a rate above 4 percent in the January-March quarter.  

So far, the so-called core rate of inflation, excluding volatile energy and food prices, has stayed well-behaved at the retail level.  

While core inflation rate at the wholesale level shot up by 0.8 percent in January, the fastest pace in more than six years, the government reported Tuesday that these price pressures eased significantly in February, with core wholesale prices rising by only 0.1 percent.  

Many analysts are looking for oil prices to retreat in coming months, helping inflation pressures to subside.  

------  

On the Net:  

Federal Reserve:  http://www.federalreserve.gov 
   RF7   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagpf0wcat | sel----- | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | NA FIN ECO US Fed Interest Rates | D8907GN01   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020050322e13m005o9  



 HDFed raises short-term interest rates to check inflation     BYBy JEANNINE AVERSA     CRAP Economics Writer   WC908 words   PD23 March 2005   ET00:48   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2005.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.  
   LPWASHINGTON (AP) - When it comes to the Federal Reserve, what it says is as important as what it does.  

Economists, investors and everyone else paying attention pretty much knew the Fed was going to boost rates by a quarter-point Tuesday, the seventh such increase since its credit tightening campaign began last June.  
   TDWhat they really wanted to know was the Fed's thoughts on the economy and inflation. The assessment they got: Inflation is picking up -- a seemingly obvious statement that still managed to surprise economists and rattle investors.  

The Dow Jones industrials fell 94.88 points to close at 10,470.51.  

Fed policy-makers "are saying they are a bit worried about inflation.... People should get used to the idea that interest rates will keep going up," said Stuart Hoffman, chief economist at PNC Financial Services Group.  

Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan and his colleagues, concerned that soaring energy prices could stoke broader inflation, boosted the federal funds rate to 2.75 percent and signaled rates would continue to head higher in the months ahead.  

In a brief statement after their meeting, the Fed policy-makers drew more attention to rising prices than they have in previous assessments, noting that "pressures on inflation have picked up in recent months."  

Still, they said the increases in energy prices haven't fed through to "core" consumer prices -- those for a variety of goods other than food and energy. And, they said, "longer-term inflation expectations remain well contained."  

Economists viewed the Fed's overall comments on inflation as slightly more hawkish than previous statements and believed that suggested further interest-rate increases well into the year.  

"The central bank has more work to do to combat possible inflation in the future," said Sung Won Sohn, president and chief economist of Hanmi Bank.  

In response to the Fed's action, commercial banks began lifting their prime lending rates by one-quarter point, to 5.75 percent. This rate, used for many short-term consumer and business loans, moves in lockstep with the funds rate.  

The Fed is lifting rates as energy prices are climbing again. Oil prices, which set a new record high last week, were hovering above $56 a barrel in trading Tuesday. That's helping to propel gasoline prices sharply higher.  

More expensive energy and food were the culprits behind wholesale prices rising 0.4 percent in February, the most in three months, the government reported Tuesday. However, "core" prices -- which exclude energy and food -- inched up 0.1 percent.  

For now, the Fed decided to keep language it has used with every rate increase, saying that future rate increases would occur "at a pace that is likely to be measured." Measured has come be to viewed as quarter-point bumps.  

A few economists thought that language might be dropped at Tuesday's meeting. Some believe it might be dropped at a subsequent meeting, perhaps at the next Fed gathering May 3 or the meeting on June 29-30.  

If the "measured" phrase is abandoned, that could mean future interest-rate increases might be less predictable than they have been, economists said. But even if that happens, some economists don't believe it necessarily means the Fed will begin to order bolder, half-point rate increases.  

How economic activity and inflation unfold in the months ahead, however, will ultimately shape how the Fed acts.  

"The Fed is saying we have a lot more work to do," said Ethan Harris, chief U.S. economist for Lehman Brothers.  

Some economists predict the Fed will keep lifting the funds rate through much of this year, pushing the rate up to around 4 percent. That would put the prime rate at 7 percent.  

The funds rate is the interest that banks charge each other on overnight loans and is the Fed's main tool for influencing the economy. Before the Fed began its rate-raising campaign, the funds rate stood at 1 percent, a 46-year low.  

That extraordinarily low rate had been used to shore up the economy, which had struggled to recover from the 2001 recession and the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks.  

These days the economic expansion is firmly rooted.  

The economy, which grew at a solid 3.8 percent annual rate in the final quarter of 2004, is expected to do as well or better in the current quarter, analysts predict.  

Fed policy-makers said the economy "continues to grow at a solid pace despite the rise in energy prices and labor market conditions continue to improve gradually."  

Employers added 262,000 jobs in February, the most since October. Economists are hopeful payrolls will post sizable gains in the coming months, though they are concerned that may not occur if energy prices continue to surge and make businesses more cautious.  

Even with the Fed's string of rate increases, longer-term rates, such as mortgage rates, have behaved relatively well. Economists expect longer-term rates will rise gradually -- rather than shoot up -- in the months ahead.  

Some analysts predict rates on 30-year mortgages will climb by the end of the year to a high of around 6.5 percent, which would still be considered fairly low by historic standards. Rates on 30-year mortgages now stand at 5.95 percent.  

------  

On the Net:  

Federal Reserve:  http://www.federalreserve.gov 
   RF7   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagdsp | sel----- | catw   IPDAP National News | Washington | Fed Interest Rates | D890ATPG0   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020050322e13m003v0  



 HDTalk From The Trenches: Fed, Inflation, GM on Radar Screens     WC909 words   PD21 March 2005   ET16:02   SNMarket News International   SCMARNEW   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2005. Market News International, Inc.  
   TD

By Isobel Kennedy

     NEW YORK, March 21 (MktNews) - There are only three things on the 
minds of U.S. bond traders: what the U.S. Federal Reserve will do at its 
meeting Tuesday; what the producer and consumer prices indices will 
show this week and how much fallout could be felt from General Motors' 
woes. 

     Everyone expects a 25 basis point hike from the Fed, taking federal 
funds to 2.75% from the current 2.50%. But no one knows what the Fed 
will say in the accompanying statement. 

     The bond market is worried the Fed could change the wording to 
indicate more aggressive tightenings ahead. That would be a negative for 
bonds generally and for the widely populated "carry" trade specifically. 
After all, every hike the Fed makes raises the cost of borrowing funds 
and that eats into the net income investors earn. Ramifications will be 
felt in Treasuries, Agencies, corporates, emerging markets and  
mortgage-backeds. 

     Chris Rupkey, economist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi, says some Fed 
officials feel the current Fed phrase, "with underlying inflation 
expected to be relatively low, the Committee believes that policy 
accommodation can be removed at a pace that is likely to be measured," 
puts them in a strait-jacket! 

     But Rupkey rightly points out that the bond market goes back and 
forth on what the removal of "measured" and "accommodative" means. 

     Sometimes the market thinks the removal of these words means the 
Fed could pause, Rupkey says, and sometimes it means the Fed will go in 
more aggressive 50 bps steps. 

     "Currently, dropping measured seems to mean to the market that they 
will go 50 bps" at some point in time, Rupkey says. 

     While some economists feel sure the Fed will change the language 
Tuesday, Rupkey thinks it makes more sense for the Fed to wait until 
federal funds are at a more neutral level, like 3.00%, before changing 
the language to signal how they might proceed in the future. 

     Economists also note that the recent rise in oil prices acts as a 
tax on the consumer and it might mean the Fed has less tightening to do 
because higher oil prices are doing part of the job for them. 

     The bond markets are on alert for inflation to rise and they are 
very skittish. On Tuesday morning, the February producer price index 
comes out, so the Fed will know what it is before they meet. Median 
estimates are for a tame +0.3% overall and +0.2%, ex-food and energy. 
But the January index printed at +0.8% ex-food and energy and spooked 
the bond market badly. 

     And even if the Fed does not change the language at all Tuesday, 
the market will digest the PPI and then sit back and wait to clear the 
next hurdle, the consumer price index release on Wednesday. 

     By the way, no one will be surprised if Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan 
comes up with a new snappy word or phrase to replace the old one. 
"Patient" and "soft patch" and "conundrum" are a few examples. 

     The latest bit of bad news from General Motors concerns the 
possibility of job cuts. Very short-dated GM paper blew out another 100 
bps Monday morning. In some cases, short-dated GM paper is now a 
startling 200 bps wider since last week. 

     Deutsche Bank bond strategists say the recent widening in interest 
rate swaps spreads, to their widest level since late October 2004, is 
partly because of the General Motors issue. 

     "Generally speaking, we are concerned about exposures in the 
investment community to spreads," Deutsche Bank says. "With the 
proliferation of structured credit instruments, there is a lot of 
leveraged exposure to credit spreads and any event that may cause the 
unwinding of the spread trade could filter through to the mortgage 
market as well." 

     And what's the skinny in the foreign exchange market on the Fed and 
General Motors? 

     Stephen Jen, a strategist at Morgan Stanley, said, the temporary 
safe haven bid for U.S. Treasuries and the dollar last week on GM 
jitters "was, to me, another sign that in the event of 'breakage' in the 
global financial system, the dollar still commands the same safe haven 
status, as it has for decades." 

     As the Fed keeps tightening and global liquidity dries up, the 
greenback may benefit also from emerging market outflows, Jen says. 

     "The more the emerging markets have been supported by global 
liquidity rather than indigenous economic fundamentals, the more 
vulnerable their currencies are to Fed tightening," he adds. 

     Foreign exchange strategist Michael Woolfolk at Bank of New York 
says, "the removal of the word 'measured,' used to describe tempered 
pace by which the Fed is removing monetary accommodation, would be 
positive for the dollar as it suggests that the Fed is giving itself 
room to raise rates at a faster pace later this year. 
 
     "On the other hand, removal of the word 'accommodative,' used to 
describe the Fed's current monetary policy position, would be negative 
for the dollar as it suggests that the Fed could pause sooner than 
expected on raising rates," Woolfolk says. 

Vicki Schmelzer contributed. 

     NOTE: Talk From the Trenches is a daily compendium of chatter from 
Treasury trading rooms offered as a gauge of the mood in the financial 
markets. It is not necessarily hard, verified news. 

--email: isobelk@marketnews.com  
   COmitfin : Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Inc.   INi814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBMarket News International, Inc.   ANDocument MARNEW0020050322e13l00008  



 CLMREVIEW &OUTLOOK (Editorial)   HDGreenspan's Real Mistake   WC1,075 words   PD21 March 2005   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGA16   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 2005, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LPAlan Greenspan has taken a political beating for his recent comments on fiscal policy, which isn't even his job. The more important question, as the Federal Reserve's Open Market Committee meets again this week, is whether the Chairman and his mates have made a monetary policy blunder that is reigniting inflation.

The markets are certainly beginning to wonder. After months of heeding Mr. Greenspan's public assurances that there's no problem, investors got the inflation jitters last week. The Nasdaq hit a low for the year, oil reached a new high at $57 a barrel, while gold and other commodity prices continue to soar. As for real-estate speculation, a friend of ours quips that in some U.S. markets "they're day-trading lots."
   TDFriday's report on import prices showed a 0.8% rise for February following 0.7% in January. While most of that is due to oil, non-petroleum import prices are also up 2.9% in the past year. A reasonable conclusion is that the Fed's easy money policy is reducing the value of the dollar and prompting importers to raise prices. The Fed is going to have to tighten money to get control of this incipient inflation, and the faster it does the less financial damage there is likely to be down the road.

---

We should stress that the Greenspan Fed's overall performance is one reason the U.S. economy has done as well as it has in recent years. Leave aside the debate about whether the Fed should have, or could have, done something to deflate the 1990s' stock-market bubble. Once that bubble burst, and then confronted with September 11, the Fed printed more dollars to keep consumers flush and compensate for tapped-out businesses. This is one reason the 2001 recession was among the shallowest on record.

The Fed's mistake has been to keep the dollar presses running at full throttle for too long. As recently as late 2003 and amid surging GDP growth, some Fed governors were still warning about the risks of "deflation." Like most other conventional economists, the Fed gurus greatly underestimated the pro-growth impact of the Bush 2003 tax cuts. Though he began raising short-term interest rates in June 2004, Mr. Greenspan has tolerated negative real rates for three years. This is the most accommodative monetary policy since the 1970s, and it has begun to produce a revival in inflation expectations.

For the past year, markets have been reassured by both the Fed's own rhetoric that inflation was under control and by the price indexes. But the consumer price index as well as Mr. Greenspan's favorite Personal Consumption Expenditure (PCE) deflator are lagging indicators. The other measure that has confounded investors, and maybe the Fed itself, is the long-bond rate. The 10-year Treasury note has remained remarkably low despite rising short-term rates, a fact that some have interpreted as a sign of no inflation. Mr. Greenspan recently declared the 10-year note trend to be a "conundrum."

A better explanation is the "carry trade," or the habit of hedge funds and others to ride the yield curve by borrowing short at lower rates and then lending long at higher rates to make a buck. As short rates start to rise, the carry-traders get squeezed and their initial response tends to be to grow the size of the order book as long as a profit can still be made. But sooner or later the carry-trade margin vanishes, the investments have to be unwound, and the bid side for the long bond evaporates. That's when the bond bears cash in their bets as long rates climb.

Our own habit of many years has been to look at gold and other commodity prices, including the dollar, as better forward-looking inflation indicators. They've been flashing red for some time, and while they fell for a time last year as the Fed finally seemed to be acting, these prices have rebounded again as our central bankers have fallen behind the curve.

We aren't the only ones warning about inflation risks. No less an authority than Paul Volcker, the former Fed Chairman, used a February speech at Stanford to underscore what he called "the oldest lesson of economic policy: a strong sense of monetary and fiscal discipline. . . . This is not a time to take chances on forcing faster economic growth at the risk of rising inflation." Mr. Volcker has rarely spoken up about monetary policy since he left the Fed in 1987, so this is stout ale.

---

Slowly, the Fed seems to be recognizing its mistake, as have financial markets. The latter are now anticipating an increase of 50 basis points in the short-term rates influenced by the Fed sometime soon, rather than the usual 25. But our advice would be for the Fed to do whatever it takes to demonstrate its anti-inflation resolve, draining dollar liquidity as needed through open-market operations, and perhaps adding a sharper and more immediate interest-rate jolt. No doubt some financial players will be caught by surprise, and both the Treasury and FDIC will have to be on alert, but some damage now is inevitable given the Fed's anti-inflation tardiness.

At least the overall economy continues to be healthy, as the incentives from tax cuts have ignited a buoyant recovery in business spending. First quarter U.S. GDP growth should hit 4%, job creation is strong, and federal revenues are rising at a nearly 10% year-over-year rate. One lesson of the last 20 years is that price stability has helped to smooth out the business cycle, as expansions become longer when they aren't undermined by rising inflation.

The main threat to this current expansion isn't the trade deficit, the budget deficit, the savings rate or any of the other media fads. The real danger is a renewal of inflation that forces interest rates higher than they would otherwise have to be. As Mr. Greenspan prepares for the end of his distinguished Fed tenure next year, surely he can't want such a policy mistake to be his final legacy.

(See related letter: "Letters to the Editor: No Cause to Berate Fed For `Reigniting Inflation'" -- WSJ April 7, 2005) 



License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | ecat : Economic News | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvexe : Executive Branch | nedi : Editorial | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gvbod : Government Bodies | ncat : Content Types   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCPIC | FED | USG | NND | EDP | RNP   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument J000000020050321e13l0002p  


 CLMAbreast of the Market   HDFed Increases Prompt Probe for Weak Links --- When Central Bank Pushes Up Rates, Various Woes Often Follow; Fallout of Higher Borrowing Costs   BYBy Greg Ip    WC1,312 words   PD21 March 2005   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGC1   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 2005, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LPWHEN THE FEDERAL Reserve raises interest rates, as it is expected to continue doing tomorrow, trouble usually follows. In 1987, the stock market crashed. In 1994, Orange County went bankrupt and Mexico devalued its peso, ravaging its economy. In 2000, the Nasdaq Stock Market bubble burst.

For months after the latest Fed tightening cycle began in June, everything seemed fine: Treasury-bond yields declined, stocks rose and volatility throughout markets fell -- the opposite of what happened in 1994, the last time the Fed reversed a prolonged period of easy money.
   TDBut in mid-February Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan declared low bond yields a "conundrum" and warned about "complacency." Since then, bond yields have shot up, closing at 4.51% Friday, and stocks have wobbled. The Dow Jones Industrial Average shed 144.7 points or 1.3% last week to close at 10629.67.

Are markets due for some kind of crisis?

"It seems likely," concludes a report from ISI Group, a New York economic-research firm.

Even with an expected boost in the Fed's target for the federal-funds rate, charged on overnight loans between banks, to 2.75% from 2.5% tomorrow, rates would remain historically low. But whenever the Fed tightens, borrowing costs rise and the economy slows. "If a company or country is a weak link, that combination of higher interest rates and reduced economic activity just tips them over," says ISI economist Nancy Lazar.

Others think it will be different this time. David Goldman, head of fixed-income research at Banc of America Securities, says the unusual clarity of the Fed's signals about its interest-rate plans has reduced uncertainty and volatility, and that won't change much unless inflation takes off. "We spend 90% of our time looking at a scenario with a 5% probability," he says.

What are the likeliest candidates for a crisis? Some analysts say the record U.S. trade deficit could trigger a disruptive further decline in the dollar's value and a jump in interest rates as buyers of American bonds demand more yield to compensate for their risk. Other possibilities listed by ISI are oil; developing countries, which could be vulnerable if investors stopped pouring significant capital into them at low interest rates; or the financially strapped airline and auto industries. Still, ISI says, "Often, a financial crisis is something that's not on anybody's list."

Here is a look at several other possibilities:

-- Corporate bonds: At the moment, investors consider corporate bonds to be relatively safe and so have been willing to accept yields that are closer than normal to what rock-solid Treasury bonds produce. Unhappy with skimpy returns on Treasurys, investors have bought riskier bonds in search of additional yield, figuring that because corporations are swimming in cash, the risk of default is low.

But last week's earnings warning from General Motors Corp., one of the three largest corporate bond issuers in the U.S. (along with Ford Motor Co. and General Electric Co.), raised the prospect of its bonds being downgraded to high yield, or junk, status, shaking up the corporate-bond market.

The corporate-bond market has been transformed by so-called credit-default swaps -- derivatives that are designed to protect lenders from a borrower's default but that increasingly are used by hedge funds and others speculating on corporate financial health and the stock market. The value of corporate debt covered by these swaps is roughly equal to the entire value of all corporate bonds outstanding world-wide -- about $5 trillion, says Mr. Goldman of Banc of America Securities.

Jim Bianco, president of Bianco Research LLC in Chicago, says complex strategies involving credit-default swaps on multiple companies create the risk of a single company's troubles spilling over to the debt of seemingly unrelated borrowers. Moreover, he adds, many investors in credit-default swaps hedge themselves against losing too much money on them by betting on stock options, thereby linking the corporate-bond and stock markets. If the two markets behave differently than investors have assumed, he warns, a lot of pain could result.

-- Housing: Prices have reached stratospheric levels in parts of the country because of low mortgage rates, strong demand and outright speculation. A sharp rise in mortgage rates could kick the props out from that market.

A housing plunge has been predicted, wrongly, for years, and Mr. Greenspan, like many economists, thinks it is unlikely. Still, Ethan Harris, chief U.S. economist at Lehman Brothers, thinks that by summer, "the housing market either goes through the roof or gets shakier." The Fed, he says, then will face the same challenge it did with stocks in 1999: Counteract a possible bubble with higher rates "or just wait for [the market] to do its own thing."

-- Mortgages: Residential mortgages are commonly "securitized," that is pooled into investment vehicles called mortgage-backed securities. The MBS market is now bigger than the market for Treasury bonds. But because mortgages, unlike Treasurys, can be paid off before maturity -- when a home is sold or the loan is refinanced -- they are less predictable than Treasurys are.

"Mortgages have a long and illustrious career of blowing up all over the place," says Mr. Bianco, especially when rates are rising from historic lows. An added risk, he says, is that because of regulatory scrutiny and management changes, Fannie Mae, the largest MBS holder, would buy fewer mortgages, possibly driving up rates.

But Mr. Goldman says the MBS market is probably less volatile than it was in 1994 because more of the securities are bought by Asian central banks that have a much higher tolerance for daily fluctuations than do many U.S. investors.

-- Financial stocks: Strong earnings from Wall Street last week demonstrated how much of the stock market's profits now come from financial companies. Six of the market's 20 largest companies -- as measured by the total value of their outstanding shares -- are primarily financial companies, and a seventh, General Electric Co., is heavily involved in finance.

Rising interest rates often have squeezed lenders' profits, but financial companies these days profit from an often-complex combination of borrowing, lending, trading, underwriting, securitizing, advising and speculating. This means their profits may be less exposed to higher rates than before, but more vulnerable to hiccups in various markets.

---

Friday's Market Activity

The Nasdaq Composite Index hit a new low for 2005 but the Dow Jones Industrial Average mounted a late-stage comeback to end in the green.

The industrials rose 3.32 points to 10629.67, ending the week down 1.3%. The industrials are down 1.4%, year-to-date.

The Nasdaq fell 8.63 points to 2007.79. For the week, it slid 1.7% and for the year, 7.7%. The Standard &Poor's 500-stock index shed 0.56 to 1189.65, ending the week down 0.9%; it is off 1.8% year-to-date.

The top decliner among the Dow industrials was American International Group, which fell 1.7%. AIG slid 7.6% on the week after replacing longtime Chief Executive Maurice Greenberg and saying it wasn't able to file an annual report on time because of the management changes and its accounting review.

Exxon Mobil was the leading climber in the industrials, rising 1.16, or 1.9%, to 62.65 after Goldman Sachs said earnings-per-share estimates for several energy companies don't reflect the current level of crude-oil futures. RadioShack fell 3.11, or 11%, to 24.60 after the consumer-electronics retailer warned that it won't meet its first-quarter earnings guidance. 



License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCCMR | EWR | NRG | PIC | STT | CYC | ENE | FIN | NND | TPX | ABS | MIM | TFR | TPT   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument J000000020050321e13l00022  


 CLMCredit Markets   HDInflation Data and Fed Action Could Pull Up Treasury Yields --- If Price Pressure Is Strong, Selloff Is Likely to Continue, Especially in Longer Issues   BYBy Shayna Stoyko Dow Jones Newswires    WC848 words   PD21 March 2005   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGC4   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 2005, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LPNEW YORK -- After more than a week of indecision, investors in Treasurys may finally get the evidence they have been seeking to take yields decisively higher, with two inflation indicators due, as well as a likely seventh consecutive interest-rate increase by the Federal Reserve.

If the inflation data prove strong this week, "it might show the selloff we had over the last month or so is not over," said Greg Fantuzzi, interest-rate strategist at Morgan Stanley in New York.
   TDThe yield on the benchmark 10-year note -- which has been on the rise since mid-February when Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan referred to low long-term rates as a "conundrum" -- has hit a speed bump around 4.5%.

It cleared one hurdle this month when it emerged from the 4%-4.4% range it which it had been confined since August. During the past week and a half, traders have been reluctant to push it higher than 4.58% amid scant data. An unexpected profit warning from General Motors, a prominent issuer of corporate bonds, and some ripples of unease in emerging markets also burnished the safe-harbor appeal of Treasurys, making it more difficult for yields to break out further.

At 4 p.m. Friday, the price of the benchmark 10-year note was down 10/32 or $3.125 for each $1,000 invested, at 95 31/32. Its yield rose to 4.509% from 4.468% Thursday, as yields move inversely to prices. The 30-year bond was down 27/32 point at 108 9/32, while its yield rose to 4.813% from 4.759%.

In the absence of more surprises -- from corporate-bond markets or elsewhere -- Treasurys will get back to basics this week and focus on the economy. "We all need to see much stronger data before we start to really push rates higher," said David Glocke, portfolio manager at Vanguard in Valley Forge, Pa., with about $30 billion in Treasurys under management. Mr. Glocke has a bearish position on short-dated Treasurys, meaning he bets yields are headed higher, but is neutral on intermediate- and long-dated issues.

For months, many investors have been positioned for higher yields and lower prices and view the Treasury market as too expensive.

The potential exists for some heavy-hitting market movers in what will be a holiday-shortened week, with the bond market closing early Thursday and remaining closed in observance of Good Friday.

The government will report producer prices tomorrow and consumer prices Wednesday. Economists generally expect that producer prices rose 0.3% in February, matching January's gain. Core prices, which strip out food and energy, are seen as having risen 0.1%, after a 0.8% rise in January.

Producer prices will come into prominence following last month's outsize gain in the core measure of wholesale inflation, and because "it will be the latest inflation gauge the Fed will have when it sits down and meets" tomorrow, said Michael Moran, chief economist at Daiwa Securities America in New York.

Consumer prices are expected to have risen 0.3%, after a 0.1% gain in January; core prices are forecast to have risen 0.2% in February, the same as in January.

Signs of stronger-than-expected inflation are likely to send Treasury prices plummeting, especially in longer-dated securities, as inflation erodes the value of fixed-coupon investments over time.

As if the data weren't enough to deal with, the Fed will decide the course of interest rates during a policy meeting tomorrow. It has raised short-term rates six times since June, in quarter-percentage-point increments, taking its target federal-funds rate to 2.5% from 1%.

Market participants widely expect another quarter-point gain this week, but they are less certain about the wording the Fed will use to accompany its decision. The central bank since May has used the word "measured" to describe the pace of its interest-rate moves. Many analysts anticipate it will stick to that line this week.

Corporate Bonds

Corporate-bond markets steadied Friday after a volatile week, as investors, still convinced the outlook for corporate-credit quality remains benign, took the opportunity to snap up bonds at cheaper prices.

"A lot of things came together at the same time," said Scott Schroepher, senior high-yield portfolio manager at American Express Asset Management, referring to the recent rise in Treasury yields, the pullback in stocks and GM's profit warnings. "But we don't view it as the beginning of the end," he said.

Auto-industry bonds recovered some ground lost last week. GM bonds eked out small gains, with the 8.375% benchmark notes due 2033 quoted on MarketAxess at 4.68 percentage points more than Treasurys of a similar duration.

---

Simona Covel, Danielle Reed and Tom Sullivan 

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   NSm12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mntdbt : National Government Debt/Bond Markets | e1202 : Interest Rates | gvtre : Treasury Department | m131 : Money Markets | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | gvexe : Executive Branch | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCTRE | USG | NND | TPX | CRD | MIM   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument J000000020050321e13l00014  



 SETHE AMERICAS   HDFed's watchers on alert for policy language changes.   BYBy ANDREW BALLS    WC499 words   PD21 March 2005   SNFinancial Times   SCFTFT   EDUSA Ed2   PGPage 6   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2005 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPWhen the Federal Reserve's open market committee meets tomorrow to decide interest rate policy, investors are likely to pay more attention to what it says than what it does.

Another quarter point rate increase, bringing the federal funds rate to 2.75 per cent, is viewed as a foregone conclusion. That leaves the question of whether the committee will decide to drop its forward-looking guidance that rates are likely to continue to rise at a "measured pace" - a phrase generally interpreted to mean that rises will come in quarter-point increments.
   TDThis debate on whether to drop the language from future statements cuts across a number of different economic views among the committee's 19 members. Some, particularly regional Fed presidents, are concerned that the guidance may limit the central bank's flexibility to respond to growing inflation risks with more aggressive rate increases if they are needed.

Another concern is the possibility that the Fed's clear guidance that rates will not rise quickly has caused investors to hold long-term interest rates at an artificially low level.

It was seen as no accident that Alan Greenspan, Fed chairman, avoided using the "measured-pace" language when he appeared before Congress last month, leaving open the door to dropping the guidance altogether. But other Fed policymakers, including Ben Bernanke, an influential governor, have continued to say that they expect to continue raising rates at a measured pace.

"Overall, we find fairly compelling arguments for both dropping and keeping the measured pace language," Larry Meyer, a former Fed governor and founder of Macroeconomic Advisers, said in a note to clients last week. "This makes the change in the policy language a very close call."

The recent economic data have generally supported the committee's consensus view that healthy, above-trend growth will continue, using up spare capacity and labour market slack.

But there have also been some warning signs in recent inflation data, particularly rising producer prices and a higher trend in the core personal consumption expenditures index. The committee will get February's producer price index tomorrow morning before its meeting starts, which may influence the tone of the debate.

At its recent meetings, the committee has left the statement that accompanies its rate decision largely unchanged, stating that monetary policy is still seen as "accommodative" and that it expects to continue raising rates at a "measured" pace. The risks to growth and inflation, it said, were balanced.

With the federal fund rate seen as well below the "neutral" rate at which policy is neither stimulating or restraining growth, the Fed is unlikely to drop the judgment that policy remains accommodative.

Whatever the outcome of the debate on language, policymakers seem to agree that the most likely course of action is quarter-point increases, at the next few meetings at least - a testament to the transparency of the committee's deliberations. 
   RF20050321U206.020   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTFT000020050321e13l00042  



 SEFT PREVIEW   HD'Measured' is the key to US  interest rate  decision THE MARKET.   BYBy TOM BRAITHWAITE    WC562 words   PD21 March 2005   SNFinancial Times   SCFTFT   EDLondon Ed1   PGPage 36   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2005 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPUS interest rates will be reviewed tomorrow with world markets factoring in another 25 basis point rise to 2.75 per cent. So strong is this consensus that attention is focused on the accompanying statement from the Federal Reserve, and the presence or absence of one word: "measured".

Alan Greenspan, Federal Reserve chairman, and his committee have been using the "m" word for 10 months, just before the round of tightening began. But inflation fears are back. Yields on 10-year Treasury bonds hit an eight-month high last week, crude oil futures reached a record high and US import prices rose. Core annual inflation in February, due for release on Wednesday, is forecast to remain at 2.3 per cent.
   TDBut leading indicators suggest inflation could rise in March. Even though the Fed has raised rates six times since June, real interest rates, which discount inflation, have only recently moved into positive territory. If the measured mantra stops, markets might look to a bigger increase next month.

In a quiet week for European statistics, two sets of data stand out. French household consumption numbers tomorrow and the German Ifo survey of business sentiment on Wednesday are likely to show the mixed state of the largest eurozone economies.

French consumers have provided a positive surprise in recent months, pushing the broader economy along despite persistently high unemployment.

However, Dario Perkins, European economist at ABN Amro, said the step-up in spending might prove to be a "one-time adjustment". Before that surprise increase in spending, there were three years where the household savings rate was unusually high. He was now worried that consumers would "not keep running down their savings if they are worried about their jobs".

At 10 per cent, the rate of unemployment in France is the highest in five years. In Germany the rate is 11.7 per cent, the highest since the 1930s, while the economy shrank in the last quarter. Business confidence though remains robust and the Ifo index is expected to show little change.

HSBC expects a slight rise, with "strong orders data and trade figures more than offsetting the impact of the stronger euro". Credit Suisse First Boston thinks confidence will be knocked by higher oil prices.

Germany has a healthy current account surplus, while the UK is running a deficit. UK data for the fourth quarter, due on Wednesday, are expected to show a narrowing from Pounds 8.8bn to Pounds 7.6bn.

Most economists expect UK consumer price index inflation to stay at 1.6 per cent when figures are released tomorrow, but the higher cost of petrol could drive price acceleration higher. Although inflation is still within the Bank of England's 2 per cent target, long-term forecasts show its breaching this level.

At the February meeting of the Monetary Policy Committee, Paul Tucker broke a long-standing consensus to argue for a rate rise. On Wednesday the Bank will publish minutes from the March meeting. Mr Tucker is unlikely to have changed his position, but expectations for a rate rise next month will be raised if some of the nine committee members are shown to have joined the solitary hawk. Markets in North America, Europe and Australia are closed on Good Friday. 
   RF20050321L136.491   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m11 : Equity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTFT000020050321e13l0003d  



 CLMU.S. Stock Markets   HDIs the Timing Right for a Crisis? --- When the Fed Raises Rates Trouble Usually Follows -- Current Forecasts Are Mixed   BYBy Greg Ip      WC1,567 words   PD21 March 2005   SNThe Wall Street Journal Asia   SCAWSJ   PGM1   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2005 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. To see the edition in which this article appeared, click here   http://awsj.com.hk/factiva-ns
   LPWHEN THE FEDERAL Reserve raises interest rates, as it is expected to continue doing tomorrow, trouble usually follows. In 1987, the stock market crashed. In 1994, Orange County went bankrupt and Mexico devalued its peso, tanking its economy. In 2000, the Nasdaq Stock Market bubble burst.

For months after the latest Fed tightening cycle began in June, everything seemed fine: Treasury bond yields declined, stocks rose and volatility throughout markets fell -- the opposite of what happened in 1994, the last time the Fed reversed a prolonged period of easy money.
   TDBut in mid-February Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan declared low bond yields a "conundrum" and warned about "complacency." Since then, bond yields have shot up, closing at 4.51% Friday, and stocks have wobbled. The Dow Jones Industrial Average shed 144.7 points or 1.3% last week to close at 10629.67.

Are markets due for some kind of crisis?

"It seems likely," concludes ISI Group, a New York economic-research firm. Though rates remain historically low, whenever the Fed tightens, borrowing costs rise and the economy slows. "If a company or country is a weak link, that combination of higher interest rates and reduced economic activity just tips them over," says ISI's Nancy Lazar.

Others think it will be different this time. David Goldman, head of fixed-income research at Banc of America Securities, says the unusual clarity of the Fed's signals about its interest-rate plans has reduced uncertainty and volatility, and that won't change much unless inflation takes off. "We spend 90% of our time looking at a scenario with a 5% probability," he says.

So what are the likeliest candidates for a crisis? Some analysts say the record U.S. trade deficit could trigger a disruptive further drop in the dollar's value and a jump interest rates as buyers of American bonds demand more yield to compensate for their risk. Other possibilities listed by ISI are oil; developing countries, which could be vulnerable if investors stopped pouring significant capital into them at low interest rates; or the financially strapped airline and auto industries. Still, ISI says, "Often, a financial crisis is something that's not on anybody's list."

Here's a look at several other possibilities:

-- Corporate bonds: At the moment, investors consider corporate bonds to be relatively safe and so have been willing to accept yields that are closer than normal to what rock-solid Treasury bonds produce. Unhappy with skimpy returns on Treasurys, investors have bought riskier bonds in search of additional yield, figuring that because corporations are swimming in cash, the risk of default is low.

But last week's earnings warning from General Motors Corp., one of the three largest corporate bond issuers in the U.S. (along with Ford Motor Co. and General Electric Co.), raised the prospect of its bonds being downgraded to junk status, shaking up the corporate bond market.

The corporate bond market has been transformed by so-called credit-default swaps -- derivatives that are designed to protect lenders from a borrower's default but that are increasingly used by hedge funds and others speculating on corporate financial health and the stock market. The value of corporate debt covered by these swaps is roughly equal to the entire value of all corporate bonds outstanding world-wide -- about $5 trillion, says Mr. Goldman of Banc of America Securities.

Jim Bianco, president of Bianco Research LLC in Chicago, says complex strategies involving credit-default swaps on multiple companies create the risk of a single company's troubles spilling over to the debt of seemingly unrelated borrowers. Moreover, he adds, many investors in credit-default swaps hedge themselves against losing too much money on them by betting on stock options, thereby linking the corporate bond and stock markets. If the two markets behave differently than investors have assumed, he warns, a lot of pain could result.

-- Housing: Prices have reached stratospheric levels in parts of the country because of low mortgage rates, strong demand and outright speculation. A sharp rise in mortgage rates could kick the props out from that market.

A housing plunge has been wrongly predicted for years, and Mr. Greenspan, like most economists, thinks it is unlikely. But Ethan Harris, chief U.S. economist at Lehman Brothers, thinks that by summer, "the housing market either goes through the roof or gets shakier." The Fed, he says, will then face the same challenge it did with stocks in 1999: Counteract a possible bubble with higher rates "or just wait for [the market] to do its own thing."

-- Mortgages: Residential mortgages are commonly "securitized," that is pooled into investment vehicles called mortgage-backed securities. The MBS market is now bigger than the market for Treasury bonds. But because mortgages, unlike Treasurys, can be paid off before maturity -- when a home is sold or the loan is refinanced -- they are less predictable than Treasurys.

"Mortgages have a long and illustrious career of blowing up all over the place," says Mr. Bianco, especially when rates are rising from historic lows. An added risk, he says, is that because of regulatory scrutiny and management changes, Fannie Mae, the largest MBS holder, would buy fewer mortgages, possibly driving up rates.

But Banc of America's Mr. Goldman says the MBS market is probably less volatile than it was in 1994 because more of the securities are bought by Asian central banks that have a much higher tolerance for daily fluctuations than do many U.S. investors.

-- Financial stocks: Strong earnings from Wall Street last week demonstrated how much of the stock market's profits now come from financial companies. Six of the market's 20 largest companies -- as measured by the total value of their outstanding shares -- are primarily financial companies, and a seventh, General Electric, is heavily involved in finance.

Rising interest rates have often squeezed lenders' profits, but financial companies these days profit from an often-complex combination of borrowing, lending, trading, underwriting, securitizing, advising and speculating. This means their profits may be less exposed to higher rates than before, but more vulnerable to hiccups in various markets.

---

Friday's Market Activity

The Nasdaq Composite Index hit a new low for 2005 but the Dow Jones Industrial Average mounted a late-stage comeback to end in the green.

The industrials rose 3.32 points to 10629.67, ending the week down 1.3%, their second consecutive weekly decline. The industrials are down 153.34, or 1.4%, year-to-date.

The Nasdaq lost 8.63 points to 2007.79. For the week, it lost 1.7%. The index is down 7.7%, for the year. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index shed 0.56 to 1189.65, closing the week down 0.9%; the index is off 1.8% year-to-date.

The top decliner among the Dow industrials was American International Group, which fell 1.7%. AIG fell 7.6% on the week after replacing longtime Chief Executive Maurice Greenberg and saying it wasn't able to file an annual report on time because of the management changes and its accounting review.

The other big blue-chip decliner of the week was GM, which rose 1% on Friday, but ended the week down 17%.

Wal-Mart Stores fell 1.7%. Wal-Mart's weighting on the S&P 500 will be the most changed once the index's readjustment is complete, with its share count in the index dropping roughly 20%. That means investors will have to sell $4 billion of Wal-Mart stock if they want to match the S&P 500.

Exxon Mobil was the leading climber in the industrials, rising 1.9% after Goldman Sachs said earnings-per-share estimates for several energy companies don't reflect the current level of crude oil futures.

RadioShack fell 11% after the consumer-electronics retailer warned that it won't meet its first-quarter earnings guidance because of sluggish wireless sales. The company sells products made by Verizon Communications and Sprint.

Doral Financial fell another 19%, ending the week down 44%. The stock of the financial-services provider was downgraded during the week by at least two analysts who cited concerns about the quality of the company's earnings.

Adobe Systems (Nasdaq) rose 6.1% as the software company said its first-quarter net income rose 23% from a year earlier.

Meanwhile, shares in Europe rose. The Dow Jones Stoxx 600 Index added 0.2% to 261.7, while the Dow Jones Euro Stoxx Index rose 0.4% to 278.4. The Dow Jones Euro Stoxx 50 Index increased 0.5% to 3054, while the Dow Jones Stoxx 50 Index added 0.2% to 2862.

Shares of German auto maker BMW ended up 1.2%, fueled by an upgrade at Deutsche Bank to "buy" from "hold." Analysts cited "the impressive free-cash-flow generation and the clear commitment to return cash to shareholders."

Shares of Volkswagen rose 1% amid an upgrade to "buy" from SG Cowen.

British-headquartered insurance company Friends Provident Group supported London markets, gaining 1.3% after it reported operating profit ahead of market forecasts. 

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   CObmw : Bayerische Motoren Werke AG | exxn : Exxon Mobil Corporation | wlmrt : Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. | adosy : Adobe Systems Inc | aiu : American International Group Inc | ffcarb : Doral Financial Corp | tandie : RadioShack Corp | vlkwag : Volkswagen AG | frprv : Friends Provident Group plc | porsch : Porsche Automobil Holding SE | rsltio : Resolution Limited   INi82 : Insurance | i1 : Energy | i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i351 : Motor Vehicles | i64 : Retail/Wholesale | iaut : Automobiles | icomp : Computing | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1300003 : Crude Petroleum Extraction | i330202 : Software | i3302021 : Applications Software | i35101 : Passenger Cars | i648 : Household Goods/Hardware Stores | i6482 : Electronics/Appliance Stores | i654 : Specialty Stores | i656 : Mixed Retailing | i6560011 : Shopping Malls/Superstores | i81501 : Credit Types/Services | i8150103 : Mortgages/Real Estate Credit | i82002 : Life Insurance | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ielec : Electronics | iextra : Natural Gas/Oil Extraction | iretail : Retail   NSm11 : Equity Markets | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | c172 : Corporate Debt Instruments | c1522 : Share Price Movement/Disruptions | mntdbt : National Government Debt/Bond Markets | c1521 : Analyst Comment/Recommendation | e1202 : Interest Rates | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | mnasdq : NASDAQ Market Commentary | ncat : Content Types | nngmc : New York Stock Market Commentary | nsmcm : Stock Market Commentary | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | c15 : Performance | c152 : Earnings Projections | c17 : Funding/Capital | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter   REusa : United States | caribz : Caribbean Islands | gfr : Germany | puri : Puerto Rico | uk : United Kingdom | usar : Arkansas | usca : California | usmi : Michigan | usny : New York | ustx : Texas | eurz : Europe | use : Northeast U.S. | eecz : European Union Countries | lamz : Latin America | namz : North America | usc : Midwest U.S. | uss : Southern U.S. | usw : Western U.S. | weurz : Western Europe | dach : DACH Countries   IPCCMR | DJCB | EWR | NRG | STT | CYC | ENE | FIN | NND | TEC | TPX | MIM | SFR | TPT   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument AWSJ000020050320e13l0001b  



 HDFed considered likely to push interest rates up again     BYBy JEANNINE AVERSA     CRAP Economics Writer   WC780 words   PD21 March 2005   ET20:46   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2005.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.  
   LPWASHINGTON (AP) - Federal Reserve policy-makers, wanting to prevent a broader outbreak of inflation as oil prices surge, are likely to keep pushing short-term interest rates higher.  

The Fed is poised to boost its key federal funds rate by one-quarter percentage point to 2.75 percent Tuesday. That would mark the seventh increase of that size since June 2004.  
   TD"I don't see any real reason why they would make any radical changes right now," said Paul Kasriel, chief economist at Northern Trust Co.  

While economists consider Tuesday's expected increase a largely foregone conclusion, there's intense interest -- and mixed opinions -- on what signals, if any, Fed policy-makers may offer about the future course of rates.  

The Fed, after each meeting, issues a brief statement that usually provides an explanation of a given interest rate decision as well as some thoughts on the economy. Fed watchers examine the statement for hints about future monetary policy.  

"There is a lot more suspense in the tone of the statement. We are all wondering what the Fed is and isn't seeing in the economy and how that will affect interest rate policy through the end of the year," said Carl Tannenbaum, chief economist at LaSalle Bank. "It's like a little game of mental chess."  

Especially of interest to economists is whether the Fed will stick with its current stance that future rate increases will be gradual. Since May 2004, the Fed's statements have said rates can rise "at a pace that is likely to be measured." Measured has come to be viewed as quarter-point bump ups.  

Some economists think that language will be kept -- for now, anyway. A few believe it could be dropped at Tuesday's meeting. If the "measured" phrase were abandoned altogether, it could mean future interest rate increases might be less predictable than they have been, economists said.  

To be sure, how economic activity and inflation unfold in the months ahead will figure prominently into whether the Fed speeds up or slows down its rate-raising campaign, analysts said.  

Some economists predict the Fed will follow Tuesday's expected rate increase with quarter-point boosts at both the May and June meetings, which would leave the funds rate at 3.25 percent. Then the Fed would pause and take a wait-and-see attitude toward any further moves, some economists said.  

Others, however, believe the Fed will keep lifting the funds rate through much of this year, pushing the rate up to around 4 percent.  

The funds rate is the interest banks charge each other on overnight loans and is the Fed's main tool for influencing the economy.  

The funds rate moves in lockstep with commercial banks' prime lending rate, which is used for many short-term consumer and business loans. The prime rate, now at 5.50 percent, would climb to 5.75 percent if the Fed pushes the funds rate up by one-quarter point Tuesday.  

The Fed is lifting rates as energy prices are surging again. Oil prices, which set a new record high last week, briefly skyrocketed above $57 a barrel in trading Monday. That's helping to propel gasoline prices sharply higher.  

Economists said the Fed will keep a close eye on whether high energy prices damp consumer spending, the lifeblood of the economy. So far, shoppers are buying at a respectable pace. But if high energy prices make consumers and businesses more cautious, that would translate into slower economic growth, analysts said.  

"Oil prices remain somewhat of a threat to the robustness of activity going forward," said Lynn Reaser, chief economist at Banc of America Capital Management.  

The economy, which grew at a solid 3.8 percent annual rate in the final quarter of 2004, is expected to do as well or better in the current quarter, analysts predict. But high energy prices may pose a risk to these projections as well as to the nation's gradually improving employment climate, they warned.  

Employers added 262,000 jobs in February, the most since October. Economists are hopeful payrolls will post sizable gains in the coming months, but that may not occur if energy prices continue to surge, they said.  

White House spokesman Scott McClellan said high energy prices underscore the need for Congress to approve a comprehensive energy plan, as advocated by President George W. Bush. "High energy prices are a drag on our growing economy and the president believes it's time for Congress to act," McClellan said.  

------  

On the Net  

Federal Reserve:  http://www.federalreserve.gov 
   RF7   COnrthnt : Northern Trust Corporation   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagpf0wcat | sel----- | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | NA FIN ECO US Fed Interest Rates | D88VI9780   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020050321e13l00ai5  



 HDFed considered likely to push interest rates up again     BYBy JEANNINE AVERSA     CRAP Economics Writer   WC807 words   PD21 March 2005   ET23:35   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2005.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.  
   LPWASHINGTON (AP) - Federal Reserve policy-makers, wanting to prevent a broader outbreak of inflation as oil prices surge, are likely to keep pushing short-term interest rates higher.  

The Fed is poised to boost its key federal funds rate by one-quarter percentage point to 2.75 percent Tuesday. That would mark the seventh increase of that size since June 2004.  
   TD"I don't see any real reason why they would make any radical changes right now," said Paul Kasriel, chief economist at Northern Trust Co.  

While economists consider Tuesday's expected increase a largely foregone conclusion, there's intense interest -- and mixed opinions -- on what signals, if any, Fed policy-makers may offer about the future course of rates.  

The Fed, after each meeting, issues a brief statement that usually provides an explanation of a given interest rate decision as well as some thoughts on the economy. Fed watchers examine the statement for hints about future monetary policy.  

"There is a lot more suspense in the tone of the statement. We are all wondering what the Fed is and isn't seeing in the economy and how that will affect interest rate policy through the end of the year," said Carl Tannenbaum, chief economist at LaSalle Bank. "It's like a little game of mental chess."  

Especially of interest to economists is whether the Fed will stick with its current stance that future rate increases will be gradual. Since May 2004, the Fed's statements have said rates can rise "at a pace that is likely to be measured." Measured has come to be viewed as quarter-point bump ups.  

Some economists think that language will be kept -- for now, anyway. A few believe it could be dropped at Tuesday's meeting. If the "measured" phrase were abandoned altogether, it could mean future interest rate increases might be less predictable than they have been, economists said.  

On Wall Street, meanwhile, inflation fears sent stocks down. The Dow Jones industrials lost 64.28 points to finish at 10,565.39, the lowest close since Feb. 1.  

To be sure, how economic activity and inflation unfold in the months ahead will figure prominently into whether the Fed speeds up or slows down its rate-raising campaign, analysts said.  

Some economists predict the Fed will follow Tuesday's expected rate increase with quarter-point boosts at both the May and June meetings, which would leave the funds rate at 3.25 percent. Then the Fed would pause and take a wait-and-see attitude toward any further moves, some economists said.  

Others, however, believe the Fed will keep lifting the funds rate through much of this year, pushing the rate up to around 4 percent.  

The funds rate is the interest banks charge each other on overnight loans and is the Fed's main tool for influencing the economy.  

The funds rate moves in lockstep with commercial banks' prime lending rate, which is used for many short-term consumer and business loans. The prime rate, now at 5.50 percent, would climb to 5.75 percent if the Fed pushes the funds rate up by one-quarter point Tuesday.  

The Fed is lifting rates as energy prices are surging again. Oil prices, which set a new record high last week, briefly skyrocketed above $57 a barrel in trading Monday. That's helping to propel gasoline prices sharply higher.  

Economists said the Fed will keep a close eye on whether high energy prices damp consumer spending, the lifeblood of the economy. So far, shoppers are buying at a respectable pace. But if high energy prices make consumers and businesses more cautious, that would translate into slower economic growth, analysts said.  

"Oil prices remain somewhat of a threat to the robustness of activity going forward," said Lynn Reaser, chief economist at Banc of America Capital Management.  

The economy, which grew at a solid 3.8 percent annual rate in the final quarter of 2004, is expected to do as well or better in the current quarter, analysts predict. But high energy prices may pose a risk to these projections as well as to the nation's gradually improving employment climate, they warned.  

Employers added 262,000 jobs in February, the most since October. Economists are hopeful payrolls will post sizable gains in the coming months, but that may not occur if energy prices continue to surge, they said.  

White House spokesman Scott McClellan said high energy prices underscore the need for Congress to approve a comprehensive energy plan, as advocated by President Bush. "High energy prices are a drag on our growing economy and the president believes it's time for Congress to act," McClellan said.  

------  

On the Net  

Federal Reserve:  http://www.federalreserve.gov 
   RF7   COnrthnt : Northern Trust Corporation   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagdsp | sel----- | catw   IPDAP National News | Washington | Fed Interest Rates | D88VKOIO0   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020050321e13l00aht  
 Page 1 of 1      2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.


 

 Page 1      2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.

