 


 HDU.S. Fed Boosts Key  Interest Rate  By Quarter Point --- Central Bank Signals Further Increases, Citing `Elevated' Price Pressures     BYBy Greg Ip     WC432 words   PD10 August 2005   SNThe Asian Wall Street Journal   SCAWSJ   PGA1   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2005 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. To see the edition in which this article appeared, click here  http://awsj.com.hk/factiva-ns
   LPWASHINGTON -- The U.S. Federal Reserve raised short-term interest rates for the 10th consecutive time, lifting its short-term rate target to 3.5% from 3.25% and signaling that more increases are to come.  

The decision, which was expected, comes as analysts raise the level to which they think the Fed must ultimately raise its target rate because of strengthening economic growth, a slightly less favorable inflation picture and still-low long-term interest rates.  
   TD"Aggregate spending, despite high energy prices, appears to have strengthened since late winter, and labor-market conditions continue to improve gradually," the Fed said in a statement accompanying its decision. Inflation excluding food and energy prices "has been relatively low in recent months and longer-term inflation expectations remain well contained, but pressures on inflation have stayed elevated."  

It repeated its view that rates would likely continue to rise at a "measured" pace, which has come to mean no more than a quarter point per meeting.  

The Federal Reserve began raising rates in June of last year, when its target for the Federal funds rate, charged on overnight loans between banks, stood at 1%, the lowest in 46 years. It has raised it by a quarter of a percentage point at each subsequent meeting.  

In recent weeks, markets and Wall Street analysts have concluded the Fed must raise interest rates considerably further than they once thought. In late June, markets thought the Federal funds rate would end the year below 3.75%. That has since risen to between 4% and 4.25%. Bill Dudley, chief U.S. economist at Goldman Sachs, said he thinks the Fed will push it to 5% by next year.  

There are several factors behind the latest rethinking. "The growth outlook has improved, and the labor market is tighter," said Mr. Dudley. He said growth in the current quarter is almost certain to top the 3.4% rate recorded in the second, because companies' inventories were so low entering the quarter. Production will have to ramp up to meet not just strong sales but to replenish inventories. The unemployment rate, now down to 5%, is at levels consistent with "full employment" in the past.  

Another factor that may prompt the Fed to tighten further is that revisions to the last three years' economic data show that economic growth and productivity were lower than previously thought, and inflation and labor cost growth were higher.  
   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | ecat : Economic News | gvexe : Executive Branch | npag : Page-One Story | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | ncat : Content Types   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCFED | USG | NND | PGO | TPT   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument AWSJ000020050809e18a0000v  



 HDBush says climbing energy and medical costs are a problem      BYBy NEDRA PICKLER      CRAssociated Press Writer   WC641 words   PD10 August 2005   ET03:21   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2005.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPCRAWFORD, Texas (AP) - President Bush voiced concern over soaring energy and health care costs on Tuesday, while the Federal Reserve hiked short-term interest rates to the highest level in nearly four years to guard against inflation.   

It was the Fed's 10th interest rate hike in 14 months to tighten credit and pushed the federal funds rate by one-quarter percentage point to 3.50 percent.   
   TDCommercial banks responded by increasing their prime lending rates, the base for many consumer loans, to 6.50 percent.   

Bush said rising interest rates were not his chief economic worry.   

"I think we're more concerned about energy prices and health care prices," said the president, who was meeting at his ranch with economic advisers. Those two areas will have a greater effect on the economy's future health, he said.   

Polls show a majority of Americans disapprove of Bush's handling of the economy. A recent Associated Press-Ipsos poll found Bush's economic approval rating at just 41 percent, the lowest level since the survey was started in December 2003.   

Bush readily acknowledged that Americans' pocketbooks are taking a hit from rising costs for health care and for gasoline.   

The Energy Department reported Monday that the average U.S. retail price of gasoline rose to a new high last week of $2.37 a gallon, and it is heading higher. Oil prices also jumped to a new high above $64 a barrel Tuesday before easing off.   

"None of us are comfortable paying $2.50 per gallon when we go to fill up our cars with gas," said Allan Hubbard, director of the National Economic Council.   

In Texas, Ben Bernanke, chairman of the President's Council of Economic Advisers, told reporters camped out at a nearby school gymnasium after the meeting that the economy has been resilient enough not to be slowed by energy costs so far. He said rising health care costs have been more of a problem.   

"It's certainly a major drag on the economy, on family budgets," he said.   

Bernanke said health care costs have risen more than 30 percent since Bush has been in office. He said the average family spends about $600 beyond insurance costs for health care.   

Still, Hubbard said most Americans are happy with their personal finances and he thinks war and terrorism also are contributing to the president's low approval ratings.   

"We are a nation at war," Hubbard said. "Obviously, that causes a lot of unease."   

Bush rattled off employment statistics to support his view that the economy is thriving -- 200,000 jobs added in July, nearly 4 million since May 2003 and an unemployment rate at 5 percent.   

He tried to reassure Americans that he is working to address problem areas. He said although the energy bill that he signed into law Monday in New Mexico won't lower gas prices soon, it is "an important start" to address tight supply and demand for oil.   

The president also urged Congress to pass his health care plan. It includes accounts that would allow Americans to pay for some medical care tax-free, subsidies for insurance costs, plans that would allow small businesses to pool their insurance costs, support for new medical technology to reduce errors and limits on lawsuits against doctors and hospitals that he said drive up the cost of medicine.   

Bush's opponents say his plan does not do anything drastic enough to have a significant impact on health care prices. Hubbard and Bernanke would not say if other options to lower health care costs were discussed in the meeting.   

"These are issues that we are going to have to address, because they are significant," Bernanke said.   

------   

On the Net:   

http://www.whitehouse.gov  
   RF7   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagdsp | sel----- | cata   IPDAP National News | Domestic US | Bush Economy | D8BSLDC00   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020050810e18a0008c  



 HDFed Delivers 10th  Interest Rate  Increase     BYBy MARTIN CRUTSINGER     CRAP Economics Writer   WC701 words   PD10 August 2005   ET12:45   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2005.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.  
   LPWASHINGTON (AP) - It is now 10 and counting. The Federal Reserve has raised interest rates 10 consecutive times over the past 14 months, and more rate hikes appear to be on the way.  

That means borrowers will pay more for home mortgages, auto loans and other types of credit.  
   TDImmediately after the Fed announced Tuesday it was raising a key short-term rate by one-quarter percentage point to 3.5 percent, commercial banks announced they were raising their prime lending rate by one-quarter point.  

That pushed the prime -- the benchmark for millions of consumer and business loans -- up to 6.5 percent, the highest level in nearly four years. If economists' predictions are correct about further Fed rate hikes, the prime will be at 7.25 percent by the end of this year.  

Many analysts predict, based on the Fed's comments Tuesday, that the central bank will boost rates at each of this year's last three meetings, on Sept. 20, Nov. 1 and Dec. 13.  

"They are pretty much telling us that they have raised rates and they are going to raise them again," said David Wyss, chief economist at Standard & Poor's in New York.  

The Fed acted against a backdrop of a strong economic growth, as measured by the gross domestic product, that many forecasters expect to top 4 percent this quarter, even in the face of record high oil prices.  

Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan and his colleagues, in a statement explaining the rate increase, said economic growth has strengthened despite the pressures posed by rising energy prices.  

The Fed stated that inflation outside of energy and food has been "relatively low," but it repeated a worry that "pressures on inflation remain elevated."  

The Fed continued to state that its interest rate policy is "accommodative" and future rate hikes can continue at "a pace that is likely to be measured."  

Translation: The Fed has not yet pushed interest rates up far enough to reach the neutral level it is seeking, where interest rates are not stimulating the economy or slowing it down.  

Economists have been left to guess where that neutral point sits. Many have been raising their estimates from as low as 3.25 percent to 4.25 percent or even 4.5 percent.  

Sung Won Sohn, chief economist at Hanmi Bank in Los Angeles, said he believes the Fed will raise rates three more times this year and then make a final one-quarter point move in early 2006 to push the funds rate to 4.5 percent.  

Analysts believe the steady increase will not trigger a sharp falloff in sectors of the economy affected by interest rates, such as autos and housing, because the movements are so gradual.  

David Jones, chief economist at DMJ Advisors consulting firm in Denver, said he believed 30-year mortgage rates will remain at a level low enough to feed strong housing demand and a fifth straight home sales record this year. Jones said he expects those rates, which have been rising for five weeks to the current 5.8 percent rate, will reach 6.25 percent by the end of this year.  

Analysts believe mortgage rates will rise to roughly 6.5 percent by the middle of next year and 6.75 percent by the end of 2006, still low by historical standards.  

"Home sales will be down, and prices will moderate a bit," Wyss said. "But 6.5 percent to 7 percent is still a low mortgage rate."  

President Bush was careful not to comment on the Fed's decision Tuesday while his economic team visited his ranch in Crawford, Texas. Bush told reporters he was more concerned that soaring energy and health care prices were pinching Americans' pocketbooks.  

Ben Bernanke, the president's chief economist and a former member of the Fed, said he saw no danger of inflation getting out of hand.  

"The core inflation rate over the last year is about 2 percent, and we see inflation remaining well-contained going forward," he told reporters.  

------  

On the Net:  

Federal Reserve: http// http://www.federalreserve.gov 
   RF7   ARTimage audio     NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagpf1apon | sel----- | catf | 1310   IPDFinancial/Business | Fed Interest Rates | D8BSTLE80   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020050810e18a0004r  



 HDU.S. hikes  interest rate  for 10th consecutive time     BYBy MARTIN CRUTSINGER     CRAP Economics Writer   WC698 words   PD10 August 2005   ET08:43   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2005.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.  
   LPWASHINGTON (AP) - The U.S. Federal Reserve has raised interest rates 10 consecutive times over the past 14 months, and more rate hikes appear to be on the way.  

That means borrowers will pay more for home mortgages, auto loans and other types of credit.  
   TDImmediately after the Fed announced Tuesday it was raising a key short-term rate by one-quarter percentage point to 3.5 percent, commercial banks announced they were raising their prime lending rate by one-quarter point.  

That pushed the prime -- the benchmark for millions of consumer and business loans -- up to 6.5 percent, the highest level in nearly four years. If economists' predictions are correct about further Fed rate hikes, the prime will be at 7.25 percent by the end of this year.  

Many analysts predict, based on the Fed's comments Tuesday, that the central bank will boost rates at each of this year's last three meetings, on Sept. 20, Nov. 1 and Dec. 13.  

"They are pretty much telling us that they have raised rates and they are going to raise them again," said David Wyss, chief economist at Standard & Poor's in New York.  

The Fed acted against a backdrop of a strong economic growth, as measured by the gross domestic product, that many forecasters expect to top 4 percent this quarter, even in the face of record high oil prices.  

Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan and his colleagues, in a statement explaining the rate increase, said economic growth has strengthened despite the pressures posed by rising energy prices.  

The Fed stated that inflation outside of energy and food has been "relatively low," but it repeated a worry that "pressures on inflation remain elevated."  

The Fed continued to state that its interest rate policy is "accommodative," and future rate hikes can continue at "a pace that is likely to be measured." In other words, the Fed has not yet pushed interest rates far enough to reach a neutral level where they are neither stimulating the economy nor slowing it down.  

Economists have been left to guess where that neutral point sits. Many have been raising their estimates from as low as 3.25 percent to 4.25 percent or even 4.5 percent.  

Sung Won Sohn, chief economist at Hanmi Bank in Los Angeles, said he believes the Fed will raise rates three more times this year and then make a final one-quarter point move in early 2006 to push the funds rate to 4.5 percent.  

Analysts believe the steady increase will not trigger a sharp falloff in sectors of the economy affected by interest rates, such as autos and housing, because the movements are so gradual.  

David Jones, chief economist at DMJ Advisors consulting firm in Denver, Colorado, said he believed 30-year mortgage rates will remain at a level low enough to feed strong housing demand and a fifth straight home sales record this year. Jones said he expects those rates, which have been rising for five weeks to the current 5.8 percent rate, will reach 6.25 percent by the end of this year.  

Analysts believe mortgage rates will rise to roughly 6.5 percent by the middle of next year and 6.75 percent by the end of 2006, still low by historical standards.  

"Home sales will be down, and prices will moderate a bit," Wyss said. "But 6.5 percent to 7 percent is still a low mortgage rate."  

President George W. Bush was careful not to comment on the Fed's decision Tuesday while his economic team visited his ranch in Crawford, Texas. Bush told reporters he was more concerned that soaring energy and health care prices were pinching Americans' pocketbooks.  

Ben Bernanke, the president's chief economist and a former member of the Fed, said he saw no danger of inflation getting out of hand.  

"The core inflation rate over the last year is about 2 percent, and we see inflation remaining well-contained going forward," he told reporters.  

------  

On the Net:  

Federal Reserve: http// http://www.federalreserve.gov 
   RF7   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagpf1wcat | sel----- | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | NA FIN ECO US Fed Interest Rates | D8BSQ4180   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020050810e18a0000z  



 HDRepeat:Bush:Energy,Health Care Bigger Worry Than Higher Rates     WC251 words   PD10 August 2005   ET03:34   SNMarket News International   SCMARNEW   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2005. Market News International, Inc.  
   TD
--Retransmitting Story Initially Sent 13:29 ET Tuesday

     WASHINGTON (MktNews) - President Bush said Tuesday afternoon -- 
just ahead of the Federal Reserve interest rate decision -- that higher 
energy and health care costs pose a greater risk to the U.S. economy 
than rising interest rates.

     At a news conference ahead of a meeting with his economic team in 
Crawford, Texas, Bush reiterated that the Fed is "completely 
independent" of the White House in its decision making. 

     "They make decisions independent of politics," Bush said, after 
being asked how rising rates would affect the economy.

     "Our job is to deal with fiscal policy and the Federal Reserve 
deals with monetary policy," he said.

     The Federal Open Market Committee is expected to announce its 
interest rate decision around 2:15 p.m. EDT.

     "I trust the judgment of Chairman Alan Greenspan," the president 
added.

     "In terms of the effect interest rates will have on our economy, I 
think we're more concerned about energy prices and health care prices," 
Bush said.
     
     "They're the two areas that we see as having a greater effect on 
the future of economic growth," Bush added.

     Asked about the Iranian nuclear situation and news about the day's 
inspections, Bush said the United States remains "deeply suspicious" of 
Iran's nuclear "desires." He pledged to continue to support the EU-led 
diplomatic efforts to prevent Iran from development nuclear weapons.

   ** Market News International Washington Bureau: 202-371-2121 **  
   INi16 : Electricity/Gas Utilities | i1 : Energy   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBMarket News International, Inc.   ANDocument MARNEW0020050810e18a0004g  



 HDUPDATE 1-US mortgage bonds tighten,Fannie news dismissed     WC396 words   PD10 August 2005   ET16:52   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2005 Reuters Limited  
   LP(Adds price movements, market activity)  

NEW YORK, Aug 10 (Reuters) - The U.S. mortgage-backed securities market enjoyed a mini-rally on Wednesday, with yield spreads tightening for a fourth consecutive session as traders shrugged off news that Fannie Mae's multibillion-dollar profit restatement would not be completed before the second half of 2006.  
   TD"Mortgages put in a very strong performance today as lower yields brought overseas and domestic buyers back to the market," a senior mortgage trader said. "That superseded all the news on Fannie."  

Fannie Mae, under investigation for massive accounting problems, said on Tuesday it would miss a deadline to post its second-quarter results and would most likely miss future deadlines for quarterly and 2005 financial results.  

The news strengthened mortgage market expectations that its portfolio growth will remain tepid going forward.  

Fannie Mae also said its failure to file timely financial reports could lead to a delisting of its stock on the New York Stock Exchange. The company's stock fell almost 4 percent on the news, but bonds were left unscathed.  

Benchmark 10-year Treasury notes <US10YT=RR> fell 1/32 to 97-27/32 for a yield of 4.396 percent. Yields, which move inversely to price, rose from Tuesday's 4.390 percent.  

Active 15-year and 30-year mortgage-backed securities were unchanged to 3/32 higher. Bond equivalent yields on 30-year 5.5 percent issues ranged from 5.341 percent to 5.492 percent.  

"Servicers remain cheery as the market and MBS hold their ground," he said, adding that hedge funds and money managers bought about $3 billion in MBS after Tuesday's interest rate announcement from the Federal Reserve have yet to take profits.  

Higher MBS coupons did not fare as well as lower issues due to profit-taking and "down-in-coupon" trades into lower issues, the trader noted.  

In related news, Freddie Mac announced it is expanding disclosures on its single-family mortgage-backed securities by year-end.  

The company said it will provide loan-level information at the time of issuance on all new fixed- and adjustable-rate mortgage participation certificates, or PCs. By providing more disclosure, the company said it will increase transparency and its competitiveness.  
   RFMARKETS-MORTGAGES (UPDATE 1)|LANGEN|Table|ABN|D|E|RBN|U   COfednat : Fannie Mae   INi81501 : Credit Types/Services | i8150103 : Mortgages/Real Estate Credit | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe1122 : Mortgage Applications/Refinancing | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCMTG | DBT | INT | MCE | AGN   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument LBA0000020050810e18a002lq  



 HDUS TREASURY OUTLOOK - July retail sales, 10-year auction       WC526 words   PD10 August 2005   ET21:58   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2005 Reuters Limited    
   LPNEW YORK, Aug 10 (Reuters) - Data on U.S. retail sales and jobless claims on Thursday are unlikely to budge U.S. Treasury debt prices from their current trading ranges.    

Analysts roughly defined the current 10-year Treasury yield range as spanning from 4.25 percent to 4.45 percent.    
   TDTreasuries enjoyed a brief relief rally after the Federal Reserve's most recent policy meeting and interest-rate hike on Tuesday, but the uptick ended mid-session on Wednesday when the Treasury announced results of its five-year note auction.    

Demand for the five-year Treasury notes auctioned on Wednesday was solid, but participation by indirect bidders, a category including foreign central banks, was said to be disappointing.    

Analysts said the market was well aware that the July retail sales report due on Thursday morning was likely to be strong and had priced in the expected robust results.    

"We've already discounted a pretty healthy retail sales gain," said Joseph LaVorgna, chief U.S. fixed-income economist at Deutsche Bank Securities.    

The only risk to the number not being as strong as expected would come in the non-auto portion of the data, LaVorgna said.    

"Even then, a smaller increase there would probably be due to an upward revision to the June ex-autos number which would only make the market think that the July number would eventually be revised up, also," he said.    

Economists believe retail sales rose strongly in July, aided by strong auto sales and brisk activity in other merchandise areas. Sales are estimated to have risen 2.2 percent in July overall, and 0.6 percent with auto sales excluded, according to a median forecast drawn from 30 economists polled by Reuters.    

The market also gets the weekly U.S. jobless claims report early in the trading session. Economists polled by Reuters estimated that new jobless claims rose slightly to 315,000 in the week ended August 5 from 312,000 a week earlier. Only a number substantially different from that forecast could nudge bond prices one way or the other.    

June data on business inventories due at 10 a.m. (1400 GMT) are expected to show that business inventories rose just 0.1 percent in June after a 0.1 percent increase in May. These data are expected to have scant market impact.    

10-YEAR NOTE AUCTION CONCLUDES TREASURY REFINANCING    

The $13.0 billion 10-year Treasury note auction on Thursday will conclude the Treasury's $44.0 billion three-part quarterly refinancing.    

"Once again a 10-year auction is coming after a retail sales report," said Cary Leahey, senior managing director at Decision Economics.    

A muscular retail sales report could keep bidding on the 10-year note muted, Leahey said.    

"Dealers could find themselves holding more paper in mid-afternoon than they'd like," he said.    

That could weigh on prices and let yields edge higher.    

In when-issued trade on Wednesday, the 10-year Treasury note to be sold on Thursday was yielding 4.3825 percent.    
   RFMARKETS-BONDS-OUTLOOK|LANGEN|ABN|M|E|RBN|D|U|MNI   INi64 : Retail/Wholesale   NSe1105 : Consumer Sentiment | e1122 : Mortgage Applications/Refinancing | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m131 : Money Markets | mcpdbt : Corporate Debt/Bond Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | e1107 : Retail/Wholesale Sales   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCMMT | DBT | GVD | MUNI | INT | MCE | AGN | MTG | USC   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument LBA0000020050810e18a0028x  



 HDJGBs yields hit 5-month highs as stocks rally     BYBy Hideyuki Sano     WC714 words   PD10 August 2005   ET03:17   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2005 Reuters Limited  
   LPTOKYO, Aug 10 (Reuters) - Japanese government bond (JGB) prices slipped on Wednesday, pushing benchmark yields to five-month highs as a brighter outlook for the economy helped buoy the TOPIX stock index to its highest level in four years.  

Robust Japanese machinery orders data the previous day and hopes for a solid reading on Japan's gross domestic product (GDP) later in the week fuelled optimism about the domestic economy, boosting stocks and keeping JGB prices under pressure.  
   TD"The rise in stock prices is making economic sentiment very strong. I think the 10-year yield could rise to 1.55 percent by September," said Takeo Okuhara, senior economist at Daiwa Institute of Research.  

The benchmark 10-year JGB yield <0#JPTSY=JBTC> jumped 2.5 basis points to 1.435 percent, its highest since March 17.  

The five-year debt yield rose 3.5 basis points to 0.630 percent, after touching 0.635 percent, also the highest in almost five months.  

Medium-term maturities were under pressure ahead of a planned offer of 2.0 trillion yen ($17.9 billion) in five-year JGBs on Thursday. The new notes are expected to carry a coupon of 0.6 percent, which would be the highest in four months.  

Benchmark September 10-year JGB futures <0#2JGB:> dipped 0.32 point to 138.51, the lowest since March 24.  

The TOPIX <.TOPX> climbed 1.79 percent to 1,227.85 after touching a four-year high of 1,229.51. The Nikkei average <.N225> surged to a 15-month high above the closely watched 12,000 level.  

Some analysts argue the stock market is a step ahead of the bond market in factoring in the string of upbeat data on the economy. The last two times the Nikkei sat above 12,000, in March this year and April 2004, 10-year yields were above 1.5 percent.  

"Long-term yields have still not factored in the recovery scenario," Xinyi Lu, chief strategist at UFJ Bank, said in a research note. "There's a big chance the sell-off will continue."  

Both the Japanese government and Bank of Japan upgraded their monthly economic assessments on Tuesday.  

Second quarter GDP data on Friday is expected to show annualised growth of 2.0 percent in April-June, a Reuters poll showed. That would be a slowdown from a blistering pace of 4.9 percent growth in January-March, but would suggest that a recovery trend in Japan's economy was still intact.  

POLICY MANIFESTO  

Growing optimism about the Japanese economy prevented JGBs from capitalising on gains in U.S. Treasury prices on Tuesday on the back of what some investors saw as a less upbeat statement from the Federal Reserve.  

The Fed raised interest rates as expected but did not significantly alter its policy statement. That disappointed bond bears who had speculated that the U.S. central bank would highlight inflation concerns after a string of solid U.S. data.  

On the other hand, the Bank of Japan on Tuesday kept its policy of flooding the banking system with cash unchanged.  

The BOJ has pledged it will end its current policy -- which has pinned down short-term interest rates near zero -- only when it sees an end to deflation.  

Speculation about an end to deflation and a credit tightening by the BOJ appears to be slowly building up. Euroyen interest rate futures <0#JEY:> show the market has priced in about a 50-50 chance of a 0.25 percentage point rate hike by June 2006.  

Some dealers say JGB yields could spike higher if Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi's coalition is overturned by the opposition Democratic Party in a Sept. 11 snap election.  

The Democrats said on Wednesday that their election manifesto would include a call for the BOJ to end quantitative easing.  

Although the BOJ has been free to decide Japan's monetary policy independently since 1998, increased political pressure to end the policy could help tip the support towards BOJ board members arguing for a tighter policy, analysts say. (Additional reporting by David McMahon)  
   RFMARKETS-JAPAN-JGB (UPDATE 2)|LANGEN|ABN|D|M|J|NAT|RBN|RNP|DNP|PTD|PMF   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | e214 : Sub-national/Local Borrowing | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e21 : Government Finance | e212 : Government Borrowing | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REjap : Japan | usa : United States | asiaz : Asia | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America   IPCDBT | GVD | INT | MCE   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument LBA0000020050810e18a000m0  



 HDRPT-UPDATE 3-Fed lifts U.S. rates 10th time, more to come      BYBy Tim Ahmann      WC786 words   PD10 August 2005   ET08:52   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2005 Reuters Limited   
   LP(Updates with market, analyst reaction; banks increasing prime rates)   

WASHINGTON, Aug 9 (Reuters) - The Federal Reserve lifted a key U.S. interest rate a quarter-percentage point on Tuesday, the 10th straight rise, and signaled more increases lie ahead as it strives to keep inflation at bay in a strong economy.   
   TDThe U.S. central bank's policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee unanimously voted to raise the benchmark federal funds rate, which can sway borrowing costs throughout the economy, to a four-year high of 3.5 percent.   

In a statement outlining its decision, the Fed said short-term rates are still low enough to lend economic support and repeated that it saw them rising at a "measured" pace -- code for more quarter-point moves.   

"Aggregate spending, despite high energy prices, appears to have strengthened since late winter, and labor market conditions continue to improve gradually," the Fed said in a nod to recent signs the economy is picking up steam.   

"Core inflation has been relatively low in recent months and longer-term inflation expectations remain well contained, but pressures on inflation have stayed elevated," it added.   

Prices for U.S. stocks and government bonds edged up after the well-telegraphed move on relief the Fed did not sound more hawkish given the vigorous economy and signs inflation is at the upper end of the central bank's comfort zone.   

Still, economists said it was clear more rate rises were in the cards.   

"The statement does have the tone of a committee that sees itself in the middle of the cycle rather than the end," said Michael Englund, chief economist at Action Economics in Boulder, Colorado.   

The Fed's move led a number of banks to raise their prime rates, the cost of loans to their best customers. Consumers will feel an impact since many adjustable lending rates -- from credit cards to home equity loans -- are tied to the prime.   

In contrast, fixed-rate mortgages key off the long-term rates set in the Treasury bond market, which have stayed stubbornly low through most of the Fed's rate-rise campaign and helped fuel the housing boom.   

Those rates have climbed recently on strong economic data and the central bank's open resolve to tighten credit.   

MORE TO COME   

The Fed began increasing the federal funds rate, which banks charge each other for overnight loans, in June 2004, when it stood at a 1958 low of 1 percent.   

The bellwether rate has risen 2.5 percentage points since then and Fed officials have been loath to specify how much further it may need to rise.   

"They obviously want to keep the market guessing as to how far they take the fed funds rate," said Elisabeth Denison, an economist with Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein in New York.   

Financial markets see the overnight rate hitting 4 percent or above by year end, and many economists expect it to head higher still next year.   

A Reuter survey of the 22 big Wall Street firms that deal directly with the Fed in the market found all but one expect overnight rates at 4 or 4.25 percent by the end of the year.   

Four of these so-called primary dealers had raised their forecast since a similar poll taken on Friday after a stronger-than-expected report on July job growth.   

Tuesday's rate hike comes after a slew of data showing the U.S. economy's pulse quickening despite record energy prices.   

Gross domestic product grew at a solid 3.4 percent rate in the second quarter. While that was a touch slower than the first-quarter pace, economists said it was impressive in light of a big fall in business inventories that implies stepped-up production over the remainder of the year.   

Vigorous auto sales, solid job growth and signs of a pick-up in manufacturing have burnished the economic picture.   

In its statement after the meeting, the Fed said upside and downside risks to its twin goals of sustainable growth and price stability remained "roughly equal."   

The policy committee also reiterated that data would drive its future decisions, even though it saw a gradual course of rate rises as the most likely outcome.   

Fed officials had billed the rate-rise campaign as an effort to return credit costs to a more normal, or "neutral," level that neither spurs nor curbs economic activity.   

Some analysts, however, now think the central bank may need to push rates up high enough to tame the roaring U.S. housing market and prevent an inflationary overheating.   
   RFECONOMY-FED (UPDATE 3)|LANGEN|GNN|DNP   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument LBA0000020050810e18a000jt  



 CLMTuesday's Markets   HDStocks Manage To Shrug Off Rate Increase --- Dow Industrials Gain 78.74 Despite the Fed's Indication Of Continued Tightening Policy   BYBy E.S. Browning    WC609 words   PD10 August 2005   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGC1   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 2005, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LPAFTER CRINGING in advance of the latest Federal Reserve interest-rate increase, the stock market rebounded as the deed actually was done.

Although the Fed gave every indication that it plans to continue raising short-term rates in the future, stocks and bonds both rallied. Some traders warned that stocks might turn down again later, but yesterday, the Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 78.74 points, or 0.75%, to 10615.67, still down 1.6% for 2005. A pullback in oil prices also helped support the stock market.
   TDStarting with their June meeting in 2004, Fed policy makers have held 10 meetings and have raised their target short-term interest rate by a quarter percentage point at each meeting -- to 3.5% currently.

The statement issued after yesterday's meeting indicated that the Fed plans to continue raising rates at a "measured" pace.

Stocks had been down for three days in anticipation of the Fed's move, and investors unwound some of that decline once the Fed did what was expected. Some of that was simply a mechanical reversing of earlier bets with a buying splurge. But some of the rebound seemed to reflect continuing hope that, despite the Fed increases and the high price of oil, the economy will remain strong enough to push stocks higher in the autumn.

"The market may end up getting spooked by this, but this week, it hasn't been," said Stephen Sachs, director of trading at mutual-fund group Rydex Investments in Rockville, Md. He said that it sometimes takes a few days for investors to react fully to Fed announcements.

In other news that could affect stocks today, networking-equipment giant Cisco Systems announced quarterly results after regular trading ended. Profit was in line with Wall Street expectations and sales were slightly ahead of expectations. But the stock fell 78 cents, or 4%, to $18.83 in after-hours trading.

Crude oil futures fell 87 cents to $63.07 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange, giving back some gains after hitting a 22-year high of $63.94 Monday. Traders warned that supply worries remain, however, leaving a risk that oil could rise again.

Last month, many investors hoped that this month's Fed rate increase would be the last, but now the expectation is that the Fed could raise rates several more times, perhaps into next year, a prospect that could weigh on stocks.

The Standard &Poor's 500-stock index rose 0.67%, or 8.25 points, to 1231.38, up 1.6% this year. The Nasdaq Composite Index rose 0.45%, or 9.80 points, to 2174.19, almost unchanged this year.

Outside the U.S., stocks advanced in dollar terms. The Dow Jones World Stock Index, excluding U.S. stocks, rose 0.42%, or 0.75 point, to 179.35.

In major U.S. market action:

Stocks rallied. On the New York Stock Exchange, where 1.44 billion shares traded, 1,892 stocks rose and 1,386 fell.

Bond prices gained. The 10-year Treasury note rose 9/32, or $2.81 for each $1,000 invested, pushing the yield down to 4.392%. The 30-year bond was up 12/32 to yield 4.576%.

The dollar weakened. Late in New York, the currency traded at 111.99 yen, down from 112.12, while the euro rose against the dollar to $1.2369 from $1.2351. 



License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   NSm11 : Equity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | e1202 : Interest Rates | gpersf : Personal Finance | gvtre : Treasury Department | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m131 : Money Markets | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | mntdbt : National Government Debt/Bond Markets | nsum : News Digest | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | glife : Living/Lifestyle | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | gvexe : Executive Branch | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | niwe : IWE Filter   REjap : Japan | usa : United States | asiaz : Asia | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America   IPCPIC | TRE | USG | STT | JPY | NND | TPX | USD | MIM | PMK | TFR | TPT   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument J000000020050810e18a0003r  


 SEThe Economy   HDFed Raises Rates for 10th Time As `Measured' Pace Continues --- Analysts Boost Estimates Of How High Fed Will Go; Productivity Climbs 2.2%   BYBy Greg Ip    WC906 words   PD10 August 2005   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGA2   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 2005, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LPWASHINGTON -- The Federal Reserve raised short-term interest rates for the tenth-consecutive time, lifting its short-term rate target to 3.5% from 3.25%, and signaling more increases to come.

Analysts and markets are raising their estimates of how much further the Fed will go, because the economy is strengthening, inflation a bit less favorable and long-term interest rates remain unusually low.
   TD"Aggregate spending, despite high energy prices, appears to have strengthened since late winter, and labor market conditions continue to improve gradually," the Fed said in a statement accompanying its decision, affirming that the spring soft patch is over. Inflation, excluding food and energy prices, "has been relatively low in recent months and longer-term inflation expectations remain well contained, but pressures on inflation have stayed elevated."

The Fed repeated its view that rates would likely continue to rise at a "measured" pace, which has come to mean no more than a quarter-point per meeting.

The 12 voting members of the 19-member Federal Open Market Committee, which sets interest-rate policy, agreed unanimously on the increase in their target for the federal-funds rate, which is charged on overnight loans between banks. The Fed also raised its less-important discount rate, charged on central-bank advances to commercial banks, to 4.5% from 4.25%. Wells Fargo Bank and other commercial lenders raised their prime rates, the benchmark for many consumer and business loans, to 6.5% from 6.25%.

The Fed has raised the funds rate a quarter-point at every policy meeting since June of last year, when it stood at a 46-year low of 1%.

In the last six weeks, futures markets have raised the expected year-end funds rate to between 4% and 4.25% from below 3.75%. Economists have followed suit. Bill Dudley, chief U.S. economist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., recently revised upward his forecast for the funds rate next spring to 5% from 4.5%. "The growth outlook has improved, and the labor market is tighter," said Mr. Dudley.

For the last year, Fed officials have characterized their actions as raising rates from a level that was still stimulating spending to a "neutral" level that neither stimulates nor restrains growth. The Fed has no specific interest rate in mind for neutral, but assumes it will have arrived when the economy is using all readily available labor and capital without straining capacity.

But some economists see a risk that economic growth could soon outstrip capacity, putting upward pressure on prices and wages. "The question the Fed should start to ask is whether neutral is the appropriate end point," said Bruce Kasman, head of economic research at J.P. Morgan Chase &Co. "An economy that continues to grow 3.5% to 4% will require not just neutral, but restrictive policy."

There aren't any signs of strain yet. The Labor Department said yesterday that productivity -- that is, output per hour -- of workers outside farms and government rose at a 2.2% annual rate in the second quarter, down from 3.2% in the first, but still in line with the brisk performance of the past decade.

Productivity growth enables firms to expand sales with the same amount of labor, containing costs. Growth in labor costs adjusted for productivity also slowed to 1.3% in the second quarter, the lowest in a year, from 3.6%.

A narrower measure of productivity, which includes only incorporated, nonfinancial businesses and is watched closely by Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan, is more encouraging. That measure rose a sharp 5.4% in the year through March. (Second-quarter figures aren't available yet.) Labor costs also grew much more slowly by this measure.

By either measure, productivity growth is strong, said Martin Baily, a scholar at the Institute for International Economics, a Washington think tank. "This is good news in terms of keeping . . . inflation down," and should comfort the Fed, he said.

On the negative side, annual productivity growth was revised down to an average of 3.7% from 2002 to 2004, from 4.2%, and labor-cost growth has been revised up to 0.3% from negative 0.2%.

The Commerce Department already had revised up inflation this year, according to the Fed's preferred price index, to 2% from about 1.6%, which some analysts said would encourage tighter monetary policy.

However, the revisions were primarily technical and didn't unsettle Fed officials, as their reference in yesterday's statement to "relatively low" inflation suggested.

Ironically, the more markets price in additional Fed tightening, the less likely such tightening becomes. That's because as markets price in more Fed increases, long-term bond yields have risen, to 4.4% now from 4% in late June. If they rise enough, that could cool the economy, especially housing prices, without more action by the Fed. For now, Fed officials feel their actions haven't tightened overall credit conditions much, and thus plan to keep raising short-term rates.

---

Online Today: WSJ.com subscribers can see how the Federal Reserve's statement compares with the one in June, and read the full text of the Fed's statement, at WSJ.com/OnlineToday. 



License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | c13 : Regulation/Government Policy | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | ecat : Economic News | gvexe : Executive Branch | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCPIC | FED | USG | NND | ECN | LMJ | TPT   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument J000000020050810e18a0003q  


 CLMCredit Markets   HDTreasury Settlement Problems May Get Worse Before Better   BYBy Michael Mackenzie Dow Jones Newswires    WC1,093 words   PD10 August 2005   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGC4   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 2005, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LPSporadic settlement problems in the government bond market are already on the regulatory radar screen. They may get worse before they get better.

Huge open positions in the September 10-year Treasurys futures contract, compared with a much smaller pool of cash Treasurys used by sellers of the future to settle their trades, is looming large.
   TDIn the government repurchase, or repo market, a supply-and-demand mismatch such as this can be exploited by some investors who can hold back lending a large amount of the issue and force other investors to pay exorbitant amounts to cover their positions. This creates a situation known as a squeeze that can ultimately trigger what are known as fails.

This dire outcome occurs when a security lent as collateral for a cash loan in repo, where dealers borrow and lend Treasury securities to finance the positions they have been taking in the market, isn't returned by the borrower.

Because securities are lent and borrowed in a chain among investors, a fail can trigger a major rupture in the financing of Treasury and futures positions in this usually hidden but crucial foundation of the bond market's infrastructure.

Such fails happened on a major scale with the settlement of the June 10-year Treasury futures contract and a repeat performance is feared by some for the September expiry. While it will shrink steadily before the contract expires, the current open interest of around 1.77 million 10-year September contracts, equal to a face value of $194 billion, overwhelms the size of cash Treasurys available to physically settle the contract. Some $19.6 billion is outstanding in August 2012 notes, the cheapest-to-deliver security to settle the September contract, with about $2.8 billion held by the Federal Reserve in its System Open Market Account.

In an interview with CNBC yesterday, William Gross, chief investment officer at Pacific Investment Management Co., denied the bond behemoth, with $460 billion in assets under management, was behind the squeeze in the June 10-year contract. According to Morningstar Inc., Pimco holds about $11.3 billion, or 45% of the outstanding February 2012 10-year note.

In a Bloomberg TV interview later in the day, Mr. Gross said Pimco contacted the Chicago Board of Trade about exiting from its futures positions after realizing that rolling over the contract to the September contract wasn't attractive to the firm. "There was certainly no Pimco intent to squeeze, and I think if you checked with the regulators, you'd get a concurrence with that," Mr. Gross said.

"The September contract, which we don't own much of if at all, you know is a very expensive contract," Mr. Gross was quoted as saying. "That was the original problem in this whole process." He said Pimco would continue to hold the February 2012 Treasury, which he added was "not our No. 1 choice." A Pimco spokesman declined to comment on the interview.

The problems in the delivery and financing of trades in the government repurchase market are largely a byproduct of booming activity in U.S. interest-rate securities, including Treasurys and derivatives such as interest-rate futures.

"The open interest of futures contracts has grown threefold in the past few years while the deliverable collateral has really shrunk due to Asian purchases and the like," Mr. Gross told CNBC. "In other words, you know, it's a crowded trade these days, and as such, getting through the same door at the same time has become more difficult."

The Chicago Board of Trade has already imposed position limits in the 10-year Treasury-note contracts for the last 10 trading days before expiration, in a bid to alleviate the problems. But this process starts only with the December contract, leaving the September settlement vulnerable.

Meanwhile, the Treasury is consulting dealers and getting a handle on the logistical and legal aspects of setting up a special security-lending facility that would help alleviate repo-lending issues, but isn't expected to make a decision soon.

All of which means "there is no mechanism in place" to prevent a repeat of the settlement problems that plagued the June 10-year contract, said Joseph Shatz, senior government bond strategist at Merrill Lynch in New York. The repo market for the August 2012 10-year note is already trading at elevated levels.

"The market expects a repeat of the squeeze we saw back in June," said Scott Skyrm, senior vice president at Fimat USA. He noted the implied repo rate for the August 2012 issue was around zero percent for the last two weeks of September, indicating it is close to failing.

A smooth or tough physical settlement of the 10-year September future will rest upon how fast open interest -- or outstanding positions -- declines before the contract expires. Amid the settlement problems of the June contract, open interest did decline dramatically as the expiry of the contract neared.

---

Yesterday's Treasury Activity

Treasurys prices rose modestly as people anticipating sterner words on inflation from Federal Reserve policy makers pared bearish bets. The Fed, as expected, raised short-term rates by a quarter percentage point. In an accompanying policy statement, it used the phrase "measured" to describe the pace of rate increases.

After the Fed announcement, Eurodollar futures were pricing in a 60% chance that the Fed's rate target would be 4.25% by year end. At 4 p.m., the benchmark 10-year note was up 9/32 point, or $2.81 per $1,000 face value, at 97 29/32. Its yield fell to 4.392% from 4.426% Monday, as yields move inversely to prices. The 30-year bond was up 12/32 point at 111 31/32 to yield 4.576%, down from 4.599%. 


 
                             AUCTION RESULTS 
 
  Here are the results of the Treasury auction of four-week bills. All bids 
are awarded at a single price at the market-clearing yield. Rates are 
determined by the difference between that price and the face value. 
 
Applications  ......................................  $44,744,506,000 
Accepted bids ......................................  $14,000,336,000 
Bids at market-clearing yield accepted .............           59.94% 
Accepted noncompetitively ..........................     $137,006,000 
" foreign noncompetitively .........................               $0 
Auction price (Rate) ............................... 99.741000(3.330%) 
Coupon Equivalent ..................................           3.385% 
Cusip number .......................................        912795VQ1 
 
 
  The bills are dated Aug. 11 and mature Sept. 8.   

---

Agnes T. Crane and Grainne McCarthy contributed to this article. 

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   COallanz : Allianz SE   INi82 : Insurance | i82001 : Full-line Insurance   NSm12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mntdbt : National Government Debt/Bond Markets | e1202 : Interest Rates | gvtre : Treasury Department | m131 : Money Markets | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | gvexe : Executive Branch | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCTRE | USG | NND | TPX | CRD | MIM   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument J000000020050810e18a00016  



 SELEX COLUMN   HDUS interest rates - THE LEX COLUMN.   WC255 words   PD10 August 2005   SNFinancial Times   SCFTFT   EDLondon Ed1   PGPage 18   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2005 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPNobody can fault the Federal Reserve's consistency. While market sentiment has oscillated during economic soft and hard spots of the past year the Fed has not flinched. Yesterday was the 10th consecutive interest rate rise of 25 basis points, taking the target Fed funds rate to 3.5 per cent. And, in spite of the relieved reaction of bond and stock markets, there was no hint of any imminent respite.
   TDIf anything, the comment that aggregate spending had strengthened since the late winter, shrugging off high energy prices, and that inflationary pressures remain "elevated", points to the Fed pressing ahead for longer. GDP growth has been in a sprightly range of 3.3 to 4.3 per cent for the last seven quarters. This quarter, even after 10 rate hikes, Citigroup estimates it will beat the top of that range given factors such as strong car sales and corporate inventory rebuilding. Inflation, meanwhile, remains a potential threat because of lower productivity growth and higher unit labour costs. With rates still "accommodative", the Fed's tightening campaign should continue to the end of the year. Then investors hit more of a blind spot. Growth in the final quarter could slow, as exceptional boosts from this quarter unwind. And there are risks to 2006, such as an end to the housing boom and rising oil prices. But, on current form, the consistency of the Fed's upwards march could continue to surprise investors into next year. 
   RF20050810L118.802   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | nanl : Analysis | ncat : Content Types   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTFT000020050810e18a00030  



 HDFT.com site : Treasuries up amid relief on Fed stance.   BYJennifer Hughes in New York, Joanna Chung in London and David Turner in Tokyo    WC438 words   PD10 August 2005   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2005 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPUS Treasuries enjoyed a rally on Wednesday on relief that the Federal Reserve had not taken a more hawkish stance as it raised interest rates on Tuesday.The Fed raised funds rate by a quarter point to 3.5 per cent but left the language in its statement virtually unchanged, saying rate rises could continue at a "measured" pace.Investors switched their focus to the second leg of the Treasury's quarterly refunding auctions this week. A $18bn sale of three-year paper on Monday attracted weak bidding from institutional investors and foreign central banks, so Wednesday's sale of $13bn in five-year notes was being scrutinised."Given the calmer environment and overseas buying overnight, we expect a decent auction," said David Adler at RBS Greenwich Capital.By late morning in New York, five-year note yields were down 1.1 basis points at 4.227 per cent. Ten-year notes yielded 4.38 per cent, down 1.2bp.
   TDOn Thursday, the Treasury will sell $13bn in 10-year notes.Yields on eurozone government bonds were also lower on relief trade and the two-year Schatz was yielding 2.321 per cent, down 2.6bp while the 10-year Bund lost 2.5bp to yield 3.354 per cent.But short-dated gilts fell as hopes of another UK interest rate cut this year faded after the Bank of England sounded a relatively upbeat note on future economic growth in its quarterly inflation report. Yields on the two-year gilt added 3.3bp to 4.266 per cent.The UK central bank cut rates last week for the first time in two years to 4.5 per cent. But "the quarterly inflation report clearly indicates that last week's [cut] is not the start of a significant policy easing process in the near-term," wrote analysts at ING.Japanese government bonds were lower as increasing optimism about the economy continued to dominate the financial markets.Analysts said the market reacted in part to Wednesday's twin upgrade by the government and the Bank of Japan of their economic assessments. A sharp rise in Japanese equity markets also put downward pressure on bonds. The 10-year bond yield closed up 2.5bp at 1.435 per cent.Barclays Capital said: "The outlook [for the bond market] remains bearish, and we believe there are still many trapped longs, suggesting additional selling as we approach the end of the first half of the fiscal year." 
   RF43916740   COrbsct : Royal Bank of Scotland Group PLC   INi81401 : Central Banking | i831 : Financial Investments | i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | iinv : Investing/Securities   NSm12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mntdbt : National Government Debt/Bond Markets | c13 : Regulation/Government Policy | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1101 : Economic Growth | e1103 : Inflation/Prices | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | e51 : Trade/External Payments | ecat : Economic News | gpol : Domestic Politics | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter   REjap : Japan | uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | asiaz : Asia | easiaz : Eastern Asia | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTCOM00020050811e18a0001f  



 HDFT.com site : The Short View: Yields could be pushed higher.   BYPhilip Coggan, Investment Editor    WC385 words   PD10 August 2005   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2005 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPThe Federal Reserve's latest interest rate increase further widened the US dollar's yield advantage over the euro and the yen. Further rate rises look inevitable, perhaps taking the Fed funds rate to 4.25 per cent by the end of the year.

But the yield argument no longer seems to be exerting much influence on the foreign exchange markets. The dollar is close to a two month low versus the euro and the broad trade-weighted index is close to a six-month low.
   TDSome of this decline may be due to an improvement in the perception of fundamentals elsewhere. Despite next month's election, Japan seems to be gaining favour with investors, thanks to an improved performance by the economy and corporate sector; Tokyo's broad-based Topix index closed at a four-year high on Wednesday.

Meanwhile, some of the gloom about Europe has dissipated in the face of improved survey data and the absence of any imminent constitutional crisis after the French and Dutch referendums. Talk of a rate cut by the European Central Bank has evaporated.

Ashraf Laidi, chief currency analyst at MG Group, says another factor behind the dollar's loss of momentum was the Chinese revaluation. "Markets are certain that further moves must follow in order for China to reduce the need to sterilise its massive (foreign exchange) interventions" he says. "Now that a China revaluation has become a reality, it can safely be added to the long-term inevitabilities that will be dollar negative."

Among those "inevitabilities" is the US trade deficit, which many observers believe will force the dollar to fall over the long term. The dollar bears were in the ascendant at the start of the year but have since been forced to cover their positions, a process that undoubtedly accelerated the speed of the US currency's rally in the first half. But most of those positions must have been covered by now.

One potential threat is the interaction between the dollar and Treasury bonds. Recent modest dollar weakness has been accompanied by rising Treasury yields. But of course, a declining currency creates less incentive for foreign investors to hold bonds, which could push yields even higher. 
   RF43916502   COecbnk :    INi81401 : Central Banking | i831 : Financial Investments | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | iinv : Investing/Securities   NSm13 : Money/Forex Markets | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTCOM00020050811e18a00018  



 HDBush says climbing energy and medical costs are a problem      BYBy NEDRA PICKLER      CRAssociated Press Writer   WC641 words   PD10 August 2005   ET00:26   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2005.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPCRAWFORD, Texas (AP) - President Bush voiced concern over soaring energy and health care costs on Tuesday, while the Federal Reserve hiked short-term interest rates to the highest level in nearly four years to guard against inflation.   

It was the Fed's 10th interest rate hike in 14 months to tighten credit and pushed the federal funds rate by one-quarter percentage point to 3.50 percent.   
   TDCommercial banks responded by increasing their prime lending rates, the base for many consumer loans, to 6.50 percent.   

Bush said rising interest rates were not his chief economic worry.   

"I think we're more concerned about energy prices and health care prices," said the president, who was meeting at his ranch with economic advisers. Those two areas will have a greater effect on the economy's future health, he said.   

Polls show a majority of Americans disapprove of Bush's handling of the economy. A recent Associated Press-Ipsos poll found Bush's economic approval rating at just 41 percent, the lowest level since the survey was started in December 2003.   

Bush readily acknowledged that Americans' pocketbooks are taking a hit from rising costs for health care and for gasoline.   

The Energy Department reported Monday that the average U.S. retail price of gasoline rose to a new high last week of $2.37 a gallon, and it is heading higher. Oil prices also jumped to a new high above $64 a barrel Tuesday before easing off.   

"None of us are comfortable paying $2.50 per gallon when we go to fill up our cars with gas," said Allan Hubbard, director of the National Economic Council.   

In Texas, Ben Bernanke, chairman of the President's Council of Economic Advisers, told reporters camped out at a nearby school gymnasium after the meeting that the economy has been resilient enough not to be slowed by energy costs so far. He said rising health care costs have been more of a problem.   

"It's certainly a major drag on the economy, on family budgets," he said.   

Bernanke said health care costs have risen more than 30 percent since Bush has been in office. He said the average family spends about $600 beyond insurance costs for health care.   

Still, Hubbard said most Americans are happy with their personal finances and he thinks war and terrorism also are contributing to the president's low approval ratings.   

"We are a nation at war," Hubbard said. "Obviously, that causes a lot of unease."   

Bush rattled off employment statistics to support his view that the economy is thriving -- 200,000 jobs added in July, nearly 4 million since May 2003 and an unemployment rate at 5 percent.   

He tried to reassure Americans that he is working to address problem areas. He said although the energy bill that he signed into law Monday in New Mexico won't lower gas prices soon, it is "an important start" to address tight supply and demand for oil.   

The president also urged Congress to pass his health care plan. It includes accounts that would allow Americans to pay for some medical care tax-free, subsidies for insurance costs, plans that would allow small businesses to pool their insurance costs, support for new medical technology to reduce errors and limits on lawsuits against doctors and hospitals that he said drive up the cost of medicine.   

Bush's opponents say his plan does not do anything drastic enough to have a significant impact on health care prices. Hubbard and Bernanke would not say if other options to lower health care costs were discussed in the meeting.   

"These are issues that we are going to have to address, because they are significant," Bernanke said.   

------   

On the Net:   

http://www.whitehouse.gov  
   RF7   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagdsa | sel----- | cata   IPDAP National News | Domestic US | Bush Economy | D8BSIR280   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020050809e189003di  



 CLMCredit Markets   HDFed's Fight Squeezes Banks, Spooks Markets --- Vanishing Gap Between Rates For Long- and Short-Term Debt Means Lower Profits for Lenders   BYBy Mark Whitehouse and Robin Sidel    WC1,739 words   PD9 August 2005   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGC1   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 2005, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   CXCorrections &Amplifications

THE PERSONAL BANKRUPTCY rate in the U.S. has declined slightly in the past two years, but remains higher than the 15-year average. Yesterday's Credit Markets column incorrectly stated that personal bankruptcies are at historical lows.

(WSJ Aug. 10, 2005)

(END) 
   LPTHE FEDERAL RESERVE'S campaign to tame inflation has created an investment rarity -- a "flattening" yield curve -- that is squeezing banks and Wall Street firms, and which in the past has presaged economic downturns.

As the Fed prepares today to raise its short-term interest-rate target for the 10th consecutive time in 14 months, to 3.50%, long-term interest rates remain stubbornly low, although they have risen in the past few weeks. That has some market watchers predicting that the difference between short and long rates -- known as the yield curve -- will disappear by year end. Under that scenario, consumers and companies would end up paying the same rate for short- and long-term loans, from certificates of deposit to long-term bonds.
   TDA flattening yield curve removes banks' age-old profit model: Borrow money at low short-term rates and lend it out to people and companies at higher long-term rates. Already, as rates converge, banks are cutting costs to address their shrinking profit margins. "Banks are scrambling, because they have this huge amount of income that is disappearing that they need to replace," says William S. Demchak, chief financial officer of PNC Financial Services Group Inc.

Should the curve end up "inverting" -- with short rates climbing above long -- banks could lose their incentive to lend. That is one reason previous flat yield-curve inversions have signaled recessions, though some economists think this time will be different. Now, they say, falling long-term rates have offset the braking effect of the Fed's short-term rate increases, in what traders call a "bull flattening": People and companies are able to bypass banks and secure low, long-term rates from other lenders or even through the bond market, meaning they still are able to make big-ticket purchases, including that new home or factory.

"It matters a lot to Wall Street, but it's not necessarily a bad thing for Main Street," says Jim Bianco, president of Bianco Research LLC, an independent research firm based in Chicago. Rising short-term rates also boost the return on extreme short-term investments such as money-market funds -- good news for folks on fixed incomes.

When the Fed began raising rates in June 2004, the difference in yield between the two-year and 10-year Treasury notes -- one measure of the yield curve -- stood at about 1.90 percentage points. As of yesterday, it had fallen to about 0.27 percentage points, well below the historical average of 0.75. Many expect it to shrink further. In a recent poll conducted by the Bond Market Association, a trade group, 12 big Wall Street banks and securities dealers forecast, on average, that the spread would fall to 0.15 percentage points by the end of this year.

The 10-year Treasury note finished trading in New York at 97 20/32, down 8/32, or $2.50 per $1,000 in face value, to yield 4.426%. The 30-year fell 8/32 to 111 19/32 to yield 4.599%.

Economists' explanations for what is happening to yields vary, many amounting to too much money chasing too few long-term investments, pushing prices up and potential returns down. Asian central banks and private investors, for example, have been big buyers of U.S. bonds. And as the U.S. population ages and the government prods companies to better fund their pension plans, demand has grown for the kind of long-term bonds that can guarantee payments to future retirees.

But the Fed's own actions also have played a leading role in keeping long-term interest rates low. Over the past year, the Fed has been unusually open about signaling its intentions to the market before each of its short-term rate increases. The predictability of Fed policy has calmed peoples' worries that a sudden increase in inflation could erode the value of their investments, making investors more willing to part with their money longer, for little extra return.

It has also encouraged investors to take on more risk -- for example, by buying long-term bonds with money borrowed at short-term rates. In one indication of investors' rising tolerance for risk, securities dealers' outstanding short-term loans to their clients reached an all-time high of $3.5 trillion at the end of June, though it has decreased somewhat since.

If strong economic data -- or some shock such as a sudden rise in inflation -- prompt investors to sell bonds purchased on borrowed funds, long-term interest rates could jump. For now, though, added demand for long-term bonds is pushing prices up and interest rates down, undermining the Fed's ability to influence long-term rates.

If the yield curve keeps getting flatter, Wall Street would find itself in an uncomfortable spot: As banks and hedge funds face higher borrowing rates and lower returns on longer-term investments, they are tempted to take greater chances to boost income. "It's a bad scenario," says Geoffrey Gwin, portfolio manager at Group G Capital Partners LLC, a hedge fund based in New York.

Banks, certainly, have blamed the yield curve for lackluster second-quarter results. "I will be candid with you that the yield curve year-to-date has certainly flattened more than we looked for. . . . So that has in turn impacted the results," Sallie Krawcheck, chief financial officer of Citigroup Inc., told investors and analysts on a conference call last month.

Among big banks hardest hit were Bank of America Corp., North Fork Bancorp and J.P. Morgan Chase &Co, according to an analysis conducted by Andrew Collins, who follows banks at Piper Jaffray &Co. in New York.

To soften the pain of the flattening yield curve, banks are slashing costs and taking other steps to increase earnings. Last month PNC, Pittsburgh, announced a cost-cutting plan aimed at saving $300 million by cutting 3,000 jobs, among other actions. Wachovia Corp. and National City Corp. also are cutting jobs and costs. And banks are setting aside less in reserves to cover bad loans, a practice with which they feel increasingly comfortable because corporate and consumer bankruptcies remain at historical lows. The strategy could backfire, however, if credit quality begins to deteriorate.

Some economists say the financial sector's pain could spread to the rest of the economy, tipping it into recession. David Rosenberg, chief U.S. economist at Merrill Lynch, notes that U.S. corporations derive about one-third of their earnings from financial activities, and that previous flat yield curves have presaged economic downturns.

Financial companies' travails, however, need not affect the economy as much as they have in the past, says Ethan Harris, chief U.S. economist at Lehman Brothers in New York. Banks are still lending, and even if they weren't, companies and consumers can turn to the bond markets, with their low long-term rates, for cash. "Who cares about banks?" Mr. Harris says. "As long as they're loosening lending standards, the fact that they're getting squeezed a bit doesn't matter for the economy."

Treasurys

Treasurys prices fell, in part on a lackluster three-year note sale, but declines were limited by caution in advance of today's Federal Reserve policy meeting.

The Treasury sold $18 billion of notes at a high rate of 4.204%, above a preauction level of 4.20%. Although one gauge of demand, the bid-to-cover ratio, was viewed as respectable, demand from people other than primary dealers totaled just 28%, compared with an expected level of around 40%. The Treasury's $44 billion quarterly refunding includes two more auctions: $13 billion of new five-year notes tomorrow and $13 billion of new 10-year notes Thursday. 


 
                                AUCTION RESULTS 
 
  Here are the results of yesterday's Treasury auctions. All bids are 
awarded at a single price at the market-clearing yield. Rates are determined 
by the difference between that price and the face value. 
 
  13-WEEK AND 26-WEEK BILLS 
 
                                    13-Week             26-Week 
 
Applications ................... $37,672,098,000     $33,095,606,000 
Accepted bids .................. $18,000,198,000     $16,000,091,000 
Accepted noncomp ............... $1,848,198,000      $1,391,406,000 
Accepted frgn non .............. $200,000,000        $175,000,000 
Auction price (Rate) ........... 99.125389(3.460%)   98.139556 (3.680%) 
Coupon equivalent .............. 3.539%              3.802% 
Bids at market yield ........... 81.80%              12.09% 
Cusip number ................... 912795VZ1           912795WN7 
 
  Both issues are dated Aug. 11. The 13-week bills mature Nov. 10, and the 
26-week bills mature Feb. 9. 
 
  THREE-YEAR NOTES 
 
Applications ...................................... $41,544,831,000 
Accepted bids ..................................... $18,000,171,000 
Bids at market-clearing yield accepted ............ 52.42% 
Accepted noncompetitively ......................... $161,331,000 
 " foreign noncompetitively ....................... $0 
Auction price (Rate) .............................. 99.779503 (4.204%) 
Interest Rate ..................................... 4.125% 
Cusip number ...................................... 912828EC0 
 
  The notes are dated Aug. 15, 2005, and mature Aug. 15, 2008. 
    

Junk Bonds

Kerr-McGee Corp. bonds rose after the company said it would use proceeds from a $3.5 billion sale of North Sea oil assets to pay down debt. But analysts said the sale wasn't likely to have an immediate impact on the company's credit ratings, which in April were downgraded after a $4 billion stock buyback.

Kerr-McGee's 7.875% notes of 2031 were quoted at 115.634 yesterday afternoon, up from 114.755 Friday, on MarketAxess, an electronic trading system for corporate bonds. Moody's Investors Service's long-term rating is Ba3 for the company, with a stable outlook. S&P rates Kerr-McGree double-B-plus with a negative outlook. Fitch Ratings has Kerr-McGee's senior secured debt at double-B with a stable outlook.

---

Michael Mackenzie and Aparajita Saha-Bubna contributed to this article.

(See related article: "Monday's Markets: Stocks Drop as Investors Fear Rate Increases Beyond Today; Some See Risk of Stifled Growth" -- WSJ Aug. 9, 2005) 



License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   NSm12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mntdbt : National Government Debt/Bond Markets | e1202 : Interest Rates | m131 : Money Markets | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | usok : Oklahoma | namz : North America | uss : Southern U.S.   IPCNRG | PIC | TRE | USG | ENE | MMR | TPX | NND | CRD | MIM | TFR   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument J000000020050809e18900034  


 CLMMonday's Markets   HDFed's Fight Squeezes Banks, Spooks Markets --- Stocks Drop as Investors Fear Rate Increases Beyond Today; Some See Risk of Stifled Growth   BYBy E.S. Browning    WC662 words   PD9 August 2005   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGC1   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 2005, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LPSUDDENLY, STOCK INVESTORS fear the Fed again.

With another interest-rate increase at today's Federal Reserve policy meeting considered virtually inevitable, stocks added to last week's losses. After breaking a four-week winning streak last week, the Dow Jones Industrial Average yesterday fell 21.10 points, or 0.2%, to 10536.93, a 2.3% decline for 2005.
   TDAlso weighing on stocks was another 22-year high for crude oil, which jumped $1.63 to $63.94 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. It is up 47% this year, although still below the inflation-adjusted record of $94.77, hit in 1980. Oil rose yesterday on fears of supply problems and on reports of threats to the U.S. embassy in Saudi Arabia. Investors worry that high oil prices could both spark inflation and hold down economic growth.

Just last month, stocks were surging amid hopes that a rate increase today would mark the end of the Fed rate-boosting campaign that began in June 2004. With a quarter-point boost today, the Fed's target short-term rate would be 3.5%, and some thought the Fed might start cutting that by year's end. Lower rates would benefit businesses and consumers alike, holding down borrowing costs.

But following a series of strong economic readings -- notably Friday's report of healthy July job creation -- "that hope has faded and dissipated," says John Caldwell, chief investment strategist at McDonald Financial Group, a brokerage arm of Cleveland's KeyCorp.

Futures traders are betting that the Fed target rate -- known as the federal-funds rate -- will surpass 4% this year, meaning that the Fed could raise rates at every meeting through December. Economists at Goldman Sachs drew wide attention yesterday with a forecast that the Fed could keep raising rates after that, hitting 5% by mid-2006.

Fears of higher rates made existing bonds less attractive, knocking down prices and pushing the yield of the benchmark 10-year Treasury note up to a four-month high of 4.426%.

Expectations of a "Goldilocks" economy of low inflation, moderate economic growth and solid corporate profits now are being tempered by a fear that Fed rate increases and high oil prices could stifle growth.

"Many observers now believe that the Fed will continue increasing interest rates for the foreseeable future. The probability of the Fed `overshooting' and increasing interest rates more than necessary to cool growth and moderate inflation (as has happened many times in the past) seems to be growing, and is beginning to spook investors," said Bob Doll, president of Merrill Lynch Investment Managers, in a report to clients.

The Standard &Poor's 500-stock index fell 0.27%, or 3.29 points, to 1223.13, up just 0.9% this year. The Nasdaq Composite Index fell 0.62%, or 13.52 points, to 2164.39, down 0.5% for 2005.

Outside the U.S., stocks advanced in dollar terms. The Dow Jones World Stock Index, excluding U.S. stocks, rose 0.67%, or 1.18 points, to 178.60.

In major U.S. market action:

Stocks retreated. On the Big Board, where 1.35 billion shares traded, 1,224 stocks rose and 2,080 fell.

Bond prices declined. The 10-year Treasury note fell 8/32, or $2.50 for each $1,000 invested. The 30-year bond was down 8/32 to yield 4.599%.

The dollar strengthened. Late in New York, it traded at 112.12 yen, up from 111.99 yen, while the euro fell against the dollar to $1.2351 from $1.2352.

(See related article: "Credit Markets: Vanishing Gap Between Rates For Long- and Short-Term Debt Means Lower Profits for Lenders" -- WSJ Aug. 9, 2005) 



License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   NSm11 : Equity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | e1202 : Interest Rates | gpersf : Personal Finance | gvtre : Treasury Department | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m131 : Money Markets | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | mntdbt : National Government Debt/Bond Markets | nsum : News Digest | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | glife : Living/Lifestyle | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | gvexe : Executive Branch | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | niwe : IWE Filter   REjap : Japan | usa : United States | asiaz : Asia | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America   IPCPIC | TRE | USG | STT | JPY | NND | TPX | USD | MIM | PMK | TFR | TPT   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument J000000020050809e18900032  


 SELEADER   HDOnwards and upwards US interest rates are not close to peaking yet.   WC611 words   PD9 August 2005   SNFinancial Times   SCFTFT   EDLondon Ed1   PGPage 14   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2005 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPSince the US economic upswing gained traction last year, financial markets have veered back and forth between alarm over inflation and concern over growth. Not so the Federal Reserve, which has stuck to its measured pace of interest rate rises. Barring some miracle, the next rise will come today and it will not be the last.

Alan Greenspan, chairman of the Fed, evidently feels that the expansion is increasingly well entrenched. This is backed by jobs data. The US economy generated 207,000 jobs in July, lifting the monthly average so far this year to 190,000. This - if hardly spectacular by the standard of past cycles - suggests an economy in good health.
   TDInflation numbers are not threatening and growth in worker compensation has moderated since surging during the bonus season at the end of last year. But the Fed wants to guard against future inflation. With remaining slack fast disappearing it is right to emphasise this risk.

Given the difficulty in knowing what a neutral rate might be, it will probably push on until there is evidence that rates are slowing the economy. This is fine, given the importance of living up to public expectations that inflation will remain under tight control. But the Fed should be nimble in trimming back if it finds that it has overshot.

How far the Fed raises short-term rates will depend on what happens to longer-term rates. Mr Greenspan clearly still thinks long-term rates are too low. If they fail to rise, or the yield curve flattens even further, the Fed will have to push short-term rates yet higher to force up long-term rates.

The growth outlook looks sunny for the rest of the year. But beyond this clouds are gathering. US house prices are growing at an unsustainable pace. Affordability and valuation measures already look overvalued on a historic basis. Prices only have to flatten out, not crash, for private savings to pick up sharply from the current zero -savings rate.

Some officials believe adjustment in the US will be smoother than in the UK or Australia, because home finance is mostly based on fixed-rate loans, and the national property market is so vast and varied it is unlikely to slow at once. But this ignores the fact that the US starts from a lower savings rate. Foreign experience shows that thepace of adjustment is hard to predict beforehand.

Some economists think the Fed also needs to worry about global economic imbalances. It would be a mistake to target the current account, as some suggest. The Fed already has two targets and only one instrument (interest rates) - it would be unmanageable to add a third. Yet global imbalances are relevant to the Fed's decisions. And not just because they might at some stage trigger disorderly shifts in the dollar and bond markets to which the Fed would have to react.

As housing flattens, private savings increase and the government continues its leisurely efforts to reduce the fiscal deficit, a year or two from now the US will be looking to a pick-up in net exports to keep the economy running at full capacity. If demand in Asia and elsewhere expands on cue, the US will be able to rebalance domestically while keeping close to full employment.

But this is a big "if". Should net exports fail to rise, the Fed may find itself in the unenviable position of -having to chose between accepting -rising unemployment or cutting rates to reflate the housing market and boost consumption again. 
   RF20050809L114.036   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | e1103 : Inflation/Prices | ecat : Economic News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | nanl : Analysis | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTFT000020050809e1890001s  



 HDBush: Energy,Health Care Costs Bigger Worry Than Higher Rates     WC250 words   PD9 August 2005   ET15:29   SNMarket News International   SCMARNEW   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2005. Market News International, Inc.  
   TD

     WASHINGTON (MktNews) - President Bush said Tuesday afternoon -- 
just ahead of the Federal Reserve interest rate decision -- that higher 
energy and health care costs pose a greater risk to the U.S. economy 
than rising interest rates.

     At a news conference ahead of a meeting with his economic team in 
Crawford, Texas, Bush reiterated that the Fed is "completely 
independent" of the White House in its decision making. 

     "They make decisions independent of politics," Bush said, after 
being asked how rising rates would affect the economy.

     "Our job is to deal with fiscal policy and the Federal Reserve 
deals with monetary policy," he said.

     The Federal Open Market Committee is expected to announce its 
interest rate decision around 2:15 p.m. EDT.

     "I trust the judgment of Chairman Alan Greenspan," the president 
added.

     "In terms of the effect interest rates will have on our economy, I 
think we're more concerned about energy prices and health care prices," 
Bush said.
     
     "They're the two areas that we see as having a greater effect on 
the future of economic growth," Bush added.

     Asked about the Iranian nuclear situation and news about the day's 
inspections, Bush said the United States remains "deeply suspicious" of 
Iran's nuclear "desires." He pledged to continue to support the EU-led 
diplomatic efforts to prevent Iran from development nuclear weapons.

   ** Market News International Washington Bureau: 202-371-2121 **

[TOPICS: MT$$$$,M$U$$$,MAUDS$,MMUFE$,MI$$$$]  
   INi16 : Electricity/Gas Utilities | i1 : Energy   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBMarket News International, Inc.   ANDocument MARNEW0020050809e189000al  



 HDUPDATE 1-U.S. banks lift prime rate to 6.5 percent     WC595 words   PD9 August 2005   ET22:06   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2005 Reuters Limited  
   LP(Adds details throughout, quotes from bank analyst and economist.)  

CHICAGO, Aug 9 (Reuters) - In a move that will affect the finances of millions of U.S. borrowers, the country's banks on Tuesday raised their prime lending rate to the highest level in four years.  
   TDThe move, which was expected, came after the country's central bank raised its key interest rate and warned that further increases might be coming.  

Wells Fargo , KeyCorp and National City were the first big lenders to announce the increase, which raises the prime rate to 6.5 percent from 6.25 percent. They were quickly joined by many others.  

The last time the prime rate was 6.5 percent was in the late summer of 2001, shortly before the Sept. 11 terror attacks sent the U.S. economy into a tailspin and prompted the U.S. Federal Reserve to aggressively cut rates.  

Tuesday's hike in the prime rate, which came after the Fed lifted its target for the federal funds rate to 3.5 percent, is likely to be bad news for borrowers, analysts said.  

That's because the prime rate is a benchmark lenders use to figure the interest they charge on all kinds of loans. As it rises, the cost of keeping an outstanding balance on a credit card, home-equity or small-business loan rises, too.  

Whether the rate increases will do anything to cool the red hot housing market, which thrives on borrowed money, is a matter of debate.  

Many of the most popular mortgages in recent months have been adjustable-rate loans, like option ARMs and interest-only loans, that are keyed to the short-term rates.  

"That's where the biggest impact is going to be," said Greg McBride, a senior financial analyst at Bankrate.com. "They'll feel the impact in the form of higher monthly payments."  

Homeowners with home-equity lines of credit are also likely to feel the pinch. According to McBride, the minimum monthly payment on a $30,000 home-equity loan has risen $51 since June 2004, when the Fed began raising rates.  

But after 10 rate increase by the Fed, each one prompting predictions of a slowdown in housing, the property market appears as strong as ever.  

That's in part because long-term rates, which determine the interest lenders charge on fixed-rate mortgages, have actually fallen during the tightening.  

When the Fed began raising rates in June 2004, the yield on the 10-year Treasury bond was 4.70 percent. On Tuesday, after the Fed raised rates for the 10th time in this tightening cycle, it was 4.39 percent.  

"If the Fed's trying to slow the housing market, they're being thwarted by the fact that long rates aren't going up much,' said Steve East, chief economist at Friedman, Billings, Ramsey.  

There's broad agreement, though, the rate hikes announced Tuesday will be good news for depositors -- in two ways.  

First, interest on savings accounts will rise in the aftermath of the Fed's rate increase and the lockstep increase in the prime rate by U.S. lenders. Second, each rate hike by the Fed is likely to help keep inflation -- the nemesis of savers -- at bay.  

"Banks tend not to raise deposit rates as quickly as they raise the interest they charge borrowers," said East. "But this is a positive for savers."  
   RFFINANCIAL-PRIMERATE (UPDATE 1)|LANGEN|ABN|E|RBN|U|D|M|RNP|DNP   INi81401 : Central Banking | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | ibnk : Banking/Credit | i814 : Banking   NSe1102 : Money Supply | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCBNK | FIN | FED | MCE | INT | GVD | DBT | CEN   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument LBA0000020050809e189002oj  



 HDPOLL-Wall St sees steady beat of Fed rate rises     BYBy Victoria Thieberger     WC829 words   PD9 August 2005   ET22:46   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2005 Reuters Limited  
   LPNEW YORK, Aug 9 (Reuters) - The Federal Reserve is likely to pursue its mission of raising official interest rates to hold inflation at bay, a Reuters poll of Wall Street economists showed on Tuesday.  

The U.S. central bank pushed up the benchmark federal funds rate on Tuesday for the 10th time in the current tightening cycle and said it will continue to move at a "measured pace."  
   TD"The statement does have the tone of a committee that sees itself in the middle of the cycle rather than the end," said Action Economics Chief Economist Michael Englund.  

A batch of stronger-than-expected economic news in recent weeks, culminating in a solid employment report for July, has prompted many Wall Street analysts to revise higher their expectations for official interest rates.  

The benchmark federal funds rate now stands at 3.5 percent, and 21 of 22 economists in the survey expect it will be lifted to 4.0 percent or 4.25 percent by the end of the year. Four of the primary dealers surveyed raised their forecasts since a similar poll taken on Friday after the jobs report.  

The Fed has three more meetings before Christmas and until recently, financial markets were speculating about an extended pause in the Fed's campaign. But signs of renewed vigor in manufacturing, business investment and the labor market have dampened such talk.  

SO FAR, SO GOOD  

In its statement after Tuesday's policy-setting meeting, Fed officials noted spending "appears to have strengthened."  

"What the statement suggests is that the Fed is happy to continue on the measured plan that has thus far served them very well," said Eric Green, chief economist at Countrywide Financial Group.  

Some analysts said the comments on inflation seemed designed to keep the markets guessing about the Fed's policy intentions.  

"They say core inflation is low, but pressures on inflation are still there. They are trying to play it both ways. They probably want to have some effect on the longer-term interest rates," said Dresdner economist Elisabeth Denison. Bond market interest rates have remained relatively low despite more than a year of Fed rate hikes.  

Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan told Congress last month he expects the economy to keep growing with little inflation, but only if the Federal Reserve keeps raising borrowing costs to head off price pressures.  

Still, figures out earlier on Tuesday helped to ease worries that higher wages will push up inflation. A key measure of unit labor costs for the second quarter rose just 1.3 percent, half of economists' expectations.  

Comments by Greenspan and other officials have given the impression that labor costs "are skyrocketing out of control," said JP Morgan Asset Management Senior Economist Anthony Chan.  

But he added that such concerns "appear to be somewhat overstated," noting that labor costs in the current decade are growing at the slowest pace in nearly five decades, even taking into account the rise in recent quarters.  

Fed officials have made it clear that economic data will dictate an end to the rate-hike campaign, rather than a pre-set notion of what a "neutral" level of rates might be.  

Indeed, some economists now expect the Fed will lift rates above "neutral" to keep a lid on inflation pressures.  

"In our view, the Fed still has a lot more tightening to do than the market anticipates," said Stephen Stanley, RBS Greenwich chief economist.  

The following is a summary of the interest rate forecasts of the 22 primary dealers that trade directly with the Fed in open market operations (all actions in bps):  


                 Fed        Fed        Fed
                 Action     Action     Action
COMPANY             Sept 20    Nov 1      Dec 13
--------------------------------------------------------
ABN AMRO Inc        Raise 25   Raise 25   No Move
Banc of America     Raise 25   Raise 25   Raise 25
Barclays Capital    Raise 25   Raise 25   Raise 25
Bear, Stearns       Raise 25   Raise 25   Raise 25
BNP Paribas         Raise 25   Raise 25   Raise 25
Citigroup           Raise 25   Raise 25   No Move
CIBC World Mrkts    Raise 25   Raise 25   No Move
Countrywide Fin     Raise 25   Raise 25   No Move
Credit Suisse       Raise 25   Raise 25   Raise 25
Daiwa Securities    Raise 25   Raise 25   No Move
Deutsche Bank       Raise 25   Raise 25   Raise 25
Dresdner            Raise 25   No Move    No Move
Goldman, Sachs      Raise 25   Raise 25   Raise 25
HSBC Securities     Raise 25   Raise 25   No Move
J.P. Morgan         Raise 25   Raise 25   Raise 25
Lehman Brothers     Raise 25   Raise 25   Raise 25
Merrill Lynch       Raise 25   Raise 25   No Move
Mizuho Securities   Raise 25   Raise 25   No Move
Morgan Stanley      Raise 25   Raise 25   No Move
Nomura Securities   Raise 25   Raise 25   No Move
RBS Greenwich       Raise 25   Raise 25   Raise 25
UBS Securities      Raise 25   Raise 25   No Move
  

(Additional reporting by the U.S. Treasury Desk)  
   RFECONOMY-FED-POLL-TABLE (URGENT)|LANGEN|Table|ABN|E|RBN|M|D|U|MNI   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe1102 : Money Supply | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCFED | INT | MCE | CEN | DBT | GVD   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument LBA0000020050809e189002hw  



 HDFT.com site : Eurozone bonds trade narrowly ahead of Fed.   BYJoanna Chung in London    WC322 words   PD9 August 2005   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2005 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPEurozone government bonds and gilts came under pressure on Tuesday and traded within a narrow range ahead of the US interest rate decision later in the day.

The US central bank is widely expected to raise rates by another quarter point to 3.5 per cent. So investors will be more focused on the accompanying statement following the decision which may give an indication of future moves.
   TDAndy Chaytor, analyst at RBS Financial Markets, said: "There is a risk that the Federal Reserve are somewhat more hawkish in their accompanying statement which would fit with the trend of their recent comments."

He added that "this may apply some upwards pressure to yields [Tuesday and Wednesday] but no large scale moves are expected in today's session."

In afternoon trading in London, yields on the 10-year Bund edged up 0.3 basis points to 3.372 per cent while the two-year Schatz yield were a touch lower at 2.327 per cent.

Data showing a stronger than expected improvement in the UK's trade position in June put further pressure on gilts. Yields on 10-year gilts were up 1.8bp at 4.411 per cent and the two-year gilt yields were steady at 4.226 per cent.

But short-dated US Treasuries were underperforming other markets, with yields on two-year bonds touching four-year highs at 4.179 per cent, before falling back.

Before the statement's release from the US Federal Reserve during early evening in New York, investors will look for guidance from second quarter data on productivity and unit labor costs, expected in the afternoon.

Japanese government bond prices continued to fall, responding to a strong rise in equity prices, and yields on the benchmark 10-year bond rose half a basis point to close at 1.410 per cent. 
   RF43890441   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSm12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mntdbt : National Government Debt/Bond Markets | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTCOM00020050810e18900010  



 HDUS SWAPS - Mixed after expected Fed rate increase     WC386 words   PD9 August 2005   ET21:41   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2005 Reuters Limited  
   LPNEW YORK, Aug 9 (Reuters) - Spreads on U.S. interest rate swaps finished narrowly mixed on Tuesday after the Federal Reserve, as expected, raised short-term interest rates by 25 basis points for the 10th time since June 2004.  

Swap spreads were quoted 0.25 basis point wider prior to the Fed's rate decision.  
   TDThree-year swap spreads finished 1 basis point tighter in an adjustment to the yield on the new three-year Treasury notes <US3YT=RR> auctioned on Monday.  

Swap spreads widened early on paying by mortgage players, but rebounded after the Fed's benign view on inflation, analysts said.  

Mortgage firms have lightened swap hedges on their loan portfolios in anticipation of rising mortgage rates, which have climbed to their highest levels in four months.  

Meanwhile, the two-to-10-year segment of the swap curve steepened about 0.5 basis point to nearly 35 basis points.  

The Federal Open Market Committee, the bank's rate-setting group, voted to raise its target for the federal funds rate to 3.50 percent, its highest level in four years.  

The FOMC said in its policy statement that U.S. economic growth is solid, helped by improved consumer spending since earlier this year. Inflation, while growing, has remained tame in the long term, it said.  

The Fed's pledge of "measured" rate increases did not surprise the market, but some analysts had braced for a more hawkish view on inflation.  

"I was a little surprise by the dovish reading of core inflation," said Eric Hiller. interest rate derivatives strategist at Banc of America Securities LLC.  

The core PCE index, the Fed's preferred inflation gauge, was unchanged in June from May, but 1.9 percent higher than a year ago. The year-to-year increase was running at the top end of the Fed's comfort zone., according to analysts.  

The Fed's latest move laid the foundation for at least two more 25-basis-point rate increases in the remainder of 2005, analysts said.  

U.S. 10-year yield <US10YT=RR> fell 3 basis points to 4.40 percent after hitting their highest level since April 11 on Monday.  
   RFMARKETS-SWAPS|LANGEN|Table|ABN|E|RBN|U|D|M|MNI|RNP|DNP   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m15 : Derivative Securities | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCINT | MCE | DBT | DRV   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument LBA0000020050809e18900297  



 HDFed raises U.S. rates 10th time, no sign of pause     WC218 words   PD9 August 2005   ET20:18   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2005 Reuters Limited  
   LPWASHINGTON, Aug 9 (Reuters) - The Federal Reserve raised a key U.S. interest rate a quarter-percentage point on Tuesday and offered no signal after a 10th straight rise that its campaign of increases was nearing an end.  

The U.S. central bank's policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee unanimously voted to lift the benchmark federal funds rate, which can sway borrowing costs throughout the economy, to a four-year high of 3.5 percent, as expected.  
   TDThe panel said rates are still low enough to lend support to the economy and repeated that it expected to continue to remove monetary stimulus at a "measured" pace, suggesting further quarter-point moves ahead.  

In an effort to head off inflation risks in a growing economy, the Fed began in June 2004 to push up the federal funds rate that banks charge each other for overnight loans from a 1958 low of 1 percent.  

The fed funds rate has risen 2.5 percentage points over that period and economists expect it to hit 4 percent or higher by year end.  
   RFECONOMY-FED-RATES (URGENT)|LANGEN|AFA|CSA|LBY|RWSA|RWS|REULB|GNS|ABX|BNX|ABN|C|D|E|M|O|U|MTL|GRO|SOF|OIL   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1102 : Money Supply | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gvexe : Executive Branch | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | ntop : Dow Jones/Reuters Top Wire News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCWASH | FED | MCE | NEWS | DBT | INT | ECI | CEN   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument LBA0000020050809e18900221  



 HDUPDATE 3-Fed lifts U.S. rates 10th time, more to come     BYBy Tim Ahmann     WC807 words   PD9 August 2005   ET16:14   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2005 Reuters Limited  
   LP(Updates with market, analyst reaction; banks increasing prime rates)  

WASHINGTON, Aug 9 (Reuters) - The Federal Reserve lifted a key U.S. interest rate a quarter-percentage point on Tuesday, the 10th straight rise, and signaled more increases lie ahead as it strives to keep inflation at bay in a strong economy.  
   TDThe U.S. central bank's policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee unanimously voted to raise the benchmark federal funds rate, which can sway borrowing costs throughout the economy, to a four-year high of 3.5 percent.  

In a statement outlining its decision, the Fed said short-term rates are still low enough to lend economic support and repeated that it saw them rising at a "measured" pace -- code for more quarter-point moves.  

"Aggregate spending, despite high energy prices, appears to have strengthened since late winter, and labor market conditions continue to improve gradually," the Fed said in a nod to recent signs the economy is picking up steam.  

"Core inflation has been relatively low in recent months and longer-term inflation expectations remain well contained, but pressures on inflation have stayed elevated," it added.  

Prices for U.S. stocks and government bonds edged up after the well-telegraphed move on relief the Fed did not sound more hawkish given the vigorous economy and signs inflation is at the upper end of the central bank's comfort zone.  

Still, economists said it was clear more rate rises were in the cards.  

"The statement does have the tone of a committee that sees itself in the middle of the cycle rather than the end," said Michael Englund, chief economist at Action Economics in Boulder, Colorado.  

The Fed's move led a number of banks to raise their prime rates, the cost of loans to their best customers. Consumers will feel an impact since many adjustable lending rates -- from credit cards to home equity loans -- are tied to the prime.  

In contrast, fixed-rate mortgages key off the long-term rates set in the Treasury bond market, which have stayed stubbornly low through most of the Fed's rate-rise campaign and helped fuel the housing boom.  

Those rates have climbed recently on strong economic data and the central bank's open resolve to tighten credit.  

MORE TO COME  

The Fed began increasing the federal funds rate, which banks charge each other for overnight loans, in June 2004, when it stood at a 1958 low of 1 percent.  

The bellwether rate has risen 2.5 percentage points since then and Fed officials have been loath to specify how much further it may need to rise.  

"They obviously want to keep the market guessing as to how far they take the fed funds rate," said Elisabeth Denison, an economist with Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein in New York.  

Financial markets see the overnight rate hitting 4 percent or above by year end, and many economists expect it to head higher still next year.  

A Reuter survey of the 22 big Wall Street firms that deal directly with the Fed in the market found all but one expect overnight rates at 4 or 4.25 percent by the end of the year.  

Four of these so-called primary dealers had raised their forecast since a similar poll taken on Friday after a stronger-than-expected report on July job growth.  

Tuesday's rate hike comes after a slew of data showing the U.S. economy's pulse quickening despite record energy prices.  

Gross domestic product grew at a solid 3.4 percent rate in the second quarter. While that was a touch slower than the first-quarter pace, economists said it was impressive in light of a big fall in business inventories that implies stepped-up production over the remainder of the year.  

Vigorous auto sales, solid job growth and signs of a pick-up in manufacturing have burnished the economic picture.  

In its statement after the meeting, the Fed said upside and downside risks to its twin goals of sustainable growth and price stability remained "roughly equal."  

The policy committee also reiterated that data would drive its future decisions, even though it saw a gradual course of rate rises as the most likely outcome.  

Fed officials had billed the rate-rise campaign as an effort to return credit costs to a more normal, or "neutral," level that neither spurs nor curbs economic activity.  

Some analysts, however, now think the central bank may need to push rates up high enough to tame the roaring U.S. housing market and prevent an inflationary overheating.  
   RFECONOMY-FED (UPDATE 3)|LANGEN|AFA|CSA|LBY|RWSA|RWS|REULB|GNS|ABX|BNX|ABN|C|D|E|M|O|U|MTL|GRO|SOF|OIL|G|RBN|MNI|RNP   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe1102 : Money Supply | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gvexe : Executive Branch | m11 : Equity Markets | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ntop : Dow Jones/Reuters Top Wire News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCWASH | FED | CEN | MCE | INT | NEWS | GVD | DBT | STX   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument LBA0000020050809e189001ku  



 HDBush praises economy but voices concern about rising energy, health costs     BYBy DEB RIECHMANN     CRAssociated Press Writer   WC522 words   PD9 August 2005   ET19:40   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2005.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.  
   LPCRAWFORD, Texas (AP) - President George W. Bush voiced concern Tuesday over rising energy and health care costs, suggesting they were clouds over an otherwise sunny U.S. economy.  

"The economy of the United States is strong and the foundation for sustained growth is in place," Bush declared, flanked by members of his domestic policy team after a strategy session on his Texas ranch.  
   TDBush sidestepped a question on interest rate increases by the Federal Reserve, saying "I trust the judgment of Chairman Alan Greenspan." He spoke ahead of a meeting in Washington at which Fed officials were expected to raise short-term interest rates for the tenth time in a row.  

"In terms of the effect interest rates will have on our economy, we're more concerned about energy prices and health care prices," Bush said.  

"Those are the two areas that we see as having a greater effect on ... on the future of economic growth," he said.  

"And that's why the energy bill's an important start. That's why we've laid out initiatives that we think will help American families and small businesses deal with the rising cost of health care."  

The president promoted his own policies, including an energy bill he signed the day before in New Mexico that contained millions of dollars of incentives for more energy production.  

Oil prices jumped to a new high above $64 (euro51.75) Monday before retreating slightly on Tuesday. The high levels reflect the market's persistent uneasiness about strong demand, tight supplies and a slew of threats to output around the globe. Adjusting for inflation, oil hasn't been this high since the early 1980s, when prices peaked at just over $90 a barrel.  

Bush said that and other domestic agenda initiatives "will help American families and small businesses deal with the rising cost of health care."  

He used the meeting with his top economic advisers to promote the unfinished part of that agenda, including his embattled plan to restructure the government pension program.  

Bush cited last Friday's report that the economy created 207,000 jobs in July -- the best showing in three months. That followed reports that the economy expanded at a solid 3.4 percent rate in the April-June quarter.  

In contrast to Bush's upbeat assessment, however, public opinion of his handling of the economy is not as positive. An Associated Press-Ipsos poll conducted earlier this month showed his economic approval rating at 41 percent -- his lowest rating yet on that poll.  

Not all the economic news has been good. Real wages have been stagnant. Economists suggest most of the recent economic gains have gone to higher-income and higher net-worth households. And while job growth has improved recently, the level of U.S. jobs is still not back to the levels before the 2001 recession.  

"There's still some challenges to the economy. And we want the American people to know there are challenges and we're working to meet them," Bush said.  
   RF7   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagpf1wcat | sel----- | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | NA FIN ECO US Bush Economy | D8BSELC80   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020050809e18900209  



 HDFed boosts key  interest rate  for 10th consecutive time     BYBy MARTIN CRUTSINGER     CRAP Economics Writer   WC705 words   PD9 August 2005   ET20:57   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2005.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.  
   LPWASHINGTON (AP) - The Federal Reserve on Tuesday boosted a key interest rate for a 10th time and signaled that more rate hikes were likely as the central bank keeps pushing borrowing costs higher to contain inflation.  

The action pushed the Fed's target for the federal funds rate up to 3.5 percent, the highest level in almost four years.  
   TDThe move was certain to be followed by an announcement by commercial banks that they were increasing their prime rate, the benchmark for millions of consumer and business loans, by a similar quarter-point. That would put the prime at 6.5 percent, its highest point in four years.  

Wall Street reacted positively to the widely expected Fed action. The Dow Jones industrial average, which was already trading higher on news of a retreat in oil prices, rallied further following the Fed's afternoon announcement.  

Analysts said the Fed is certain to keep raising rates at its coming meetings.  

"The Fed gave no hint that we are near the end of rate increases," said Lynn Reaser, chief economist at Banc of America Capital Management Inc.  

The Fed has raised interest rates at every one of its meetings going back to June 2004 when the funds rate, the interest that banks charge each other, stood at a 46-year low of 1 percent.  

In its latest announcement, the Fed kept language pledging to move rates up "at a pace that is likely to be measured." That phrase is interpreted by financial markets as signaling continued quarter-point moves.  

Tuesday's announcement had been widely anticipated after Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan told Congress last month that further rate increases were needed to make sure solid economic growth did not trigger inflation pressures.  

Many analysts believe the Fed will keep raising interest rates at its final three meetings of the year, in September, November and December, leaving the funds rate at 4.25 percent at year's end.  

The central bank acted as President George W. Bush talked economic policy at his Texas ranch with his domestic policy advisers.  

Speaking to reporters there, Bush proclaimed the economy as "strong" and said the "foundation for sustained growth is in place." He sidestepped a question about interest rate increases, saying "I trust the judgment of Chairman Alan Greenspan."  

A wide range of recent economic reports has indicated that the economy is growing at a solid pace despite the fact that energy prices have surged to new record levels approaching $64 per barrel on Monday.  

The Fed took note of current economic conditions in its brief announcement, stating that consumer and business spending have strengthened since the late winter despite high energy prices and labor market conditions have continued to improve gradually.  

The Fed said that inflation outside of energy and food "has been relatively low in recent months" and that long-term inflation expectations remain well contained. But it added a cautionary warning that "pressures on inflation have stayed elevated."  

Private analysts believe the Fed's credit tightening campaign will keep mortgage rates and other consumer interest rates rising in the months ahead but at a pace that should be gradual enough to only modestly slow the nation's booming housing market.  

Economists are not looking for mortgage rates to suddenly begin surging. They are forecasting that the 30-year mortgage, currently at 5.82 percent, will be around 6.25 percent by the end of this year and probably around 6.5 percent in the summer of 2006, still a historically low level for mortgage rates.  

While some analysts had thought that the Fed might skip a meeting or two in its rate hikes this year, that view changed after the economy showed new vigor in recent weeks following the spring slowdown.  

Overall economic growth, as measured by the gross domestic product, came in at a solid 3.4 percent rate in the April-June quarter, and many analysts believe the GDP is expanding at a pace above 4 percent in the current quarter. The solid growth helped the economy create 207,000 jobs in July, the best showing in three months.  
   RF7   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagpf0wcat | sel----- | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | NA FIN ECO US Fed Interest Rates | D8BSFP180   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020050809e189000ru  



 HDFed hikes  interest rate  for 10th consecutive time     BYBy JEANNINE AVERSA     CRAP Economics Writer   WC854 words   PD9 August 2005   ET23:30   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2005.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.  
   LPWASHINGTON (AP) - The Federal Reserve pushed borrowing costs to their highest point in nearly four years Tuesday in an attempt to make sure the combination of high energy prices and a solidly growing economy doesn't turn into a recipe for inflation.  

Chairman Alan Greenspan and his colleagues lifted a key short-term rate, called the federal funds rate, by one-quarter percentage point to 3.50 percent. It marked the 10th increase of that size in the Fed's 14-month campaign to tighten credit.  
   TDIn response, commercial banks began boosting their prime lending rates -- used for many short-term consumer loans, including variable-rate credit cards and popular home equity lines of credit-- by a corresponding amount to 6.50 percent.  

The increases left both the funds rate and the prime lending rates at their highest levels in nearly four years.  

Fed policy-makers, in a brief statement accompanying their rate decision, had mostly good things to say about the economy.  

They said that despite high energy prices, consumers and businesses are spending -- important forces behind economic activity. And they noted that the job climate continues to improve.  

But policy-makers made clear once again that fighting inflation -- which currently doesn't appear to be a danger to the economy -- remains a top mission. "Pressures on inflation have stayed elevated," they said. The Fed's previous statement, on June 30, used the same language.  

Against that backdrop, the Fed stuck to its course of gradually raising rates to fend off inflation. It said future rate increases would be at "at a pace that is likely to be measured." Analysts view that phrase as meaning additional quarter-point increases at the Fed's next meeting, Sept. 20, as well as the year's last two meetings in November and December.  

If that turns out to be the case, the funds rate -- the interest banks charge each other on overnight loans -- would climb to 4.25 percent by the end of this year. That would push the prime rate to 7.25 percent.  

"The Fed is very comfortable with its strategy of slowly pushing rates higher," said Lynn Reaser, chief economist at Banc of America Capital Management. "It, however, believes we still have a ways to go before rates get to a level that will keep the economy growing but also hold inflation in check."  

Reaser and some other economists believe the Fed may continue its steady rate raising into 2006.  

"There was no hint of a pause, and no hint of a more aggressive tightening stance," said Sherry Cooper, chief economist at BMO Nesbitt Burns.  

On Wall Street, stocks rose. The Dow Jones industrials gained 78.74 points to close at 10,615.67.  

A rapid pickup in inflation -- if not blunted by other economic forces -- can erode workers' paychecks and drive up business costs. If inflation is bad enough, it can short circuit economic growth. The Fed is being especially watchful for any sign that the strengthening labor market is fanning inflation, economists said.  

The Fed's action comes after a series of largely positive economic readings.  

Employers cranked up hiring in July, adding 207,000 jobs. That was up from 166,000 jobs in June.  

The economy as a whole expanded at a chipper 3.4 percent pace in the second quarter -- even in the face of expensive energy. Economic growth is expected to top a 4 percent pace in the July-to-September period.  

Still, energy prices continue marching higher. Oil prices set a new record Monday, closing at a high of $63.94 a barrel. Gasoline prices last week averaged $2.37 a gallon nationwide, a new high.  

"Aggregate spending, despite high energy prices, appears to have strengthened since late winter and labor market conditions continue to improve gradually," the Fed said.  

Despite the encouraging economic news, Bush's handling of the economy isn't getting rave reviews from the public. An Associated Press-Ipsos poll conducted earlier this month showed his economic approval rating at 41 percent -- his lowest rating yet on that poll.  

Bush held a strategy session with economic advisers at his Texas ranch Tuesday.  

Of the Fed's higher rates, the president said: "I trust the judgment of Chairman Alan Greenspan. He makes decisions based upon facts, not based upon politics."  

Asked whether he is concerned that higher interest rates will slow economic growth, Bush responded, "I think we're more concerned about energy prices and health care prices."  

Before the Fed embarked on its rate-raising campaign, the prime rate stood at 4 percent, the lowest since 1958; the funds rate was at 1 percent, a 46-year low.  

Rates had sunk to those low levels after an aggressive series of rate cuts to help the economy recover from the 2001 recession and the jolt of the terror attacks on Sept. 11, 2001, and a wave of corporate accounting scandals that rocked Wall Street.  

------  

On the Net:  

Federal Reserve:  http://www.federalreserve.gov/ 

White House:  http://www.whitehouse.gov 
   RF7   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagdsp | sel----- | catw   IPDAP National News | Washington | Fed Interest Rates | D8BSI1080   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020050809e1890009o  



 CLMCredit Markets   HDBond Market Awaits Rate Increases --- Data Suggesting Economy Is Picking Up May Prompt Further Tightening by Fed   BYBy Michael Mackenzie Dow Jones Newswires    WC580 words   PD8 August 2005   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGC4   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 2005, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LPFor the bond market, the dam holding back Federal Reserve rate increases beyond an expected 4% year-end target is showing signs of cracking.

Trading in bonds and interest-rate futures had reflected investors' anticipation that the central bank would raise its target for the federal-funds rate -- the rate charged on overnight loans between banks -- to 4% this year from its current level of 3.25%, with the risk of a few more increases in 2006. But a year-end rate of 4.25% now may seem more likely, after further evidence that the U.S. economy is picking up steam.
   TDThe risks for bond investors seem weighted toward a much stronger economy than previously thought, maintaining a bearish tone in Treasurys trading.

"The implication here is that the economy possesses a nice forward momentum and [Friday's payrolls] data are likely to act as the catalyst to force some hard rethinking on the Treasury market's part regarding previously held assumptions about the overall economy and course of Fed policy," said Anthony Karydakis, chief fixed-income strategist at JPMorgan Asset Management in New York.

The change in sentiment came after the Labor Department on Friday reported that 207,000 jobs were created in July. Fanning worries about inflation, average hourly earnings gained 0.4%, the biggest rise in a year.

Treasurys prices ended down sharply Friday. At 4 p.m., the benchmark 10-year note fell 20/32 point, or $6.25 per $1,000 face value, at 97 28/32. Its yield rose to 4.394%, the highest level since April 11, from 4.316% Thursday. The 30-year bond was down 1 1/32 points at 111 27/32 to yield 4.584%, up from 4.522% Thursday.

Some strategists say the 10-year yield may be headed toward 4.45% to 4.5%. With a Fed policy meeting tomorrow and sales of new three-, five-, and 10-year Treasurys this week, bond prices are seen erring on the side of weakness.

The payroll report "underscores the very bearish sentiment in the Treasury market," said Kevin Flanagan, fixed-income strategist at Morgan Stanley in Purchase, N.Y.

Meanwhile, near-month interest-rate futures were suggesting a 4.25% federal-funds rate at the end of the year, and long-dated contracts were erring toward a higher federal-funds rate for 2006 and 2007.

Describing the economy as "firing on all cylinders," after the July employment report, Stephen Stanley, chief economist at RBS Greenwich Capital in Greenwich, Conn., said "the Fed will need to keep tightening for a while, even with core consumer-price inflation tame in recent months."

RBS Greenwich has one of the more aggressive federal-funds targets -- 5.5% by mid-2006. Mr. Stanley said he believes "the Fed will have to keep going well into 2006."

To a certain extent, the bond market is merely repeating the pattern of the past year by making a slight adjustment higher in its view of where the federal-funds rate will peak in this cycle of rising rates.

"We panned out at 3.50%, then at 4% and now 4.50% by next March is looking probable," said Dominic Konstam, head of interest-rate strategy at Credit Suisse First Boston in New York. 

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   NSm12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mntdbt : National Government Debt/Bond Markets | e1202 : Interest Rates | gvtre : Treasury Department | m131 : Money Markets | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | gvexe : Executive Branch | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCTRE | USG | NND | TPX | CRD | MIM | TPT   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument J000000020050808e1880002j  



 SEFT PREVIEW   HDUS interest rates expected to rise by a quarter point THE MARKET.   BYBy CHRIS FLOOD    WC588 words   PD8 August 2005   SNFinancial Times   SCFTFT   EDLondon Ed1   PGPage 34   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2005 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPA further quarter-point increase in US interest rates is expected tomorrow as the Federal Reserve maintains its course of removing monetary accommodation at a measured pace.

There was nothing in the latest congressional testimony by Alan Greenspan, Fed chairman, to provide any comfort to those investors who hope the Fed might be near the end of its credit-tightening cycle. The Fed's outlook for the US economy suggests inflationary pressures will remain contained and growth will be sustained.
   TDThe US consumer is making a healthy contribution to overall economic growth. A huge jump in car sales, helped by discounting by General Motors, is expected to provide a substantial boost to overall US retail sales for July, due on Thursday. Consensus estimates suggest an increase of 3.4 per cent on the month, which would push the year-on-year growth rate up from 7.6 per cent to 9.5 per cent.

US productivity figures for the second quarter, due tomorrow, are expected to show a slowdown from 2.9 per cent in the first quarter to about 2 per cent. Growth in unit labour costs, a measure of inflationary pressure favoured by the Fed, is expected to ease from 3.3 per cent to about 3 per cent, owing to muted growth in labour compensation.

Mr Greenspan's testimony included interesting remarks on US productivity, noting that experience suggested the rapid advances in productivity of the past decade were unlikely to be maintained "in an economy that has reached the cutting edge of technology". This suggests that more of the labour cost increases US companies are facing are likely to be reflected in their profit margins or selling prices.

The US trade deficit for June, due on Friday, is expected to widen from May's Dollars 55.4bn (Euros 44.8bn, Pounds 31.2bn) to Dollars 58bn, owing mainly to higher oil prices. The rise in petrol prices could hit the University of Michigan's consumer confidence survey for August, also due on Friday, although a better-than-expected increase in employment in July should provide some support.

In the UK, the British Retail Consortium's July survey, due tomorrow, will assess consumers' response to terrorist attacks in London. The trade deficit figures for June, also due tomorrow, are expected to show some improvement for exports owing to the decline in sterling while import growth might have slowed because of weaker demand.

The Bank of England's inflation report, due on Wednesday, will provide clues on the Bank's reasons for cutting interest rates by a quarter of a point to 4.5 per cent on Thursday. John Butler, UK economist at HSBC, said: "The message the Bank will be keen to convey is that the interest rate cuts are an insurance measure, helping to fine-tune the economy rather than a signal that the floodgates are about to open."

The Bank is also expected to revise its forecast for growth this year down from 2.6 per cent in May to 2 per cent, which could have implications for the state of the government's finances.

The initial estimate for second quarter eurozone gross domestic product is expected to show a softening in growth owing to a slowdown in the German economy and recession in the Netherlands. One potential bright spot is the recovery in the Italian economy, which is expected to register positive growth. 
   RF20050808L134.012   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | e1118 : Trade Figures | e511 : Capital Movements/Invisible Trade | e512 : Physical Trade | ecat : Economic News | gdip : International Relations | e51 : Trade/External Payments | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations   REuk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTFT000020050808e1880002r  



 SECOMMENT   HDWhy the  Federal Reserve  must raise interest rates STEPHEN CECCHETTI.   BYBy STEPHEN CECCHETTI    WC820 words   PD8 August 2005   SNFinancial Times   SCFTFT   EDEurope Ed1   PGPage 15   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2005 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPWhen housing markets boom, homeowners get rich. And the rich drive fancy cars, have expensive flat-screen televisions and go on nice holidays. At least that is the way people think it is supposed to work. But we all need somewhere to live so, while the above may be true for some, it cannot work for all of us at the same time. Economy-wide consumption should not respond to changes in property values. That the impact has been large is a problem for everyone, especially for monetary policymakers.

As the Federal Reserve's Open Market Committee (FOMC) meets tomorrow morning, housing should be at the centre of the discussion. Alan Greenspan, the chairman, and his colleagues are in a bind because of the strategy they have followed over the past five years. It now looks as if their overdue reaction to the housing boom will require them to raise interest rates well beyond the 4 per cent or so that most people now expect.
   TDThe story starts with the internet boom of the late 1990s. At the time, Fed policymakers concluded that since it was so difficult to identify bubbles as they are inflating, it is best to wait and clean up the mess after the crash. In 2001, that is what they did. The FOMC lowered the short-term interest rate from 6 per cent to 1 per cent.

The predictable result was a housing boom. The value of residential housing in the US is 55 per cent higher today than it was only five years ago. Since household consumption reacts quickly and strongly to increases in property wealth, a recession was nearly averted.

Fed policy replaced the internet bubble with a housing bubble. The problem is that equity and property are very different. When stock prices rise, it signals improved future profitability. Faster growth means higher incomes and more resources to devote to current (and future) consumption.

Housing is different. We all have to live somewhere. When housing prices rise it does not signal any increase in the quantity of economy-wide output. While someone with a bigger house could move into a smaller one, for each person trading down and taking wealth out of their home, someone is trading up and putting wealth in. A rise in property prices means people are consuming more housing, not that they are wealthier. This logic is clear. Even so, when economists look at individuals they see a large effect - an increase in housing wealth has about twice the impact on consumption of an equivalent increase in stock market wealth. For the US economy, the Dollars 6,500bn (Euros 5,260bn) increase in housing wealth since 2000 amounts to a Dollars 200bn rise in consumption - enough to push GDP up 1.5 per cent and drive the household savings rate to zero.

Much of this added consumption has been financed by increased borrowing. This means that as interest rates rise, an increasing portion of household incomes will have to be devoted to repaying the Dollars 4,000bn in additional debt incurred during the first half of this decade. Low interest rates have encouraged borrowing from the future. And the more we borrow, the larger the debt and the bigger the adjustment.

The most troubling aspect of this is the Fed's reaction. The minutes tell us that the FOMC spent a portion of their June meeting discussing housing, concluding that since there is no way to know if there is a housing bubble, there is nothing to be done. These conclusions bear an eerie resemblance to comments made at the height of the internet bubble in the late 1990s.

These statements reveal that policymakers are taking the wrong approach. Consumption should not react to increases in housing wealth. Household spending levels are simply unsustainable and something has to be done. The policy prescription is simple: raise interest rates. Higher interest rates both make borrowing more expensive, reducing household demand, and raise returns on alternative assets for yield-chasing financial institutions.

Hopefully, the Fed can emulate its colleagues at the Reserve Bank of Australia. After three years of nearly 20 per cent annual increases, housing prices have been nearly flat for the past 18 months. A series of interest rate increases, coupled with strong public statements, seems to have done the job. While Australian growth has fallen from 4 per cent to less than 2 per cent, it appears the worst is over.

Following this lead, the FOMC should (1) increase interest rates at the coming meeting; (2) signal that they are far from done; and (3) warn people that the best we can hope for is that housing prices stop rising, but that there is a real risk of collapse.

The writer is professor of international economics and finance, International Business School, Brandeis University 
   RF20050808E115.002   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | nanl : Analysis | ncat : Content Types   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTFT000020050808e18800002  



 HDRPT-US TREASURY OUTLOOK-Q2 labor costs, Fed rate hike seen      BYBy Ellen Freilich      WC606 words   PD8 August 2005   ET23:37   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2005 Reuters Limited   
   LPNEW YORK, Aug 8 (Reuters) - Second-quarter productivity and labor-cost data and a Federal Reserve policy meeting that is expected to produce another interest rate rise will highlight U.S. government securities trading on Tuesday.   

Strong U.S. payrolls data released on Friday pushed prices lower on Friday and again on Monday.   
   TDThat downward tilt could persist on Tuesday if the productivity and labor cost data offer bonds no succor and particularly if the statement issued by the Fed at the end of its policy meeting has a hawkish ring to it.   

At its meeting on Tuesday, the Fed is widely expected to retain language that describes the pace of interest-rate hikes as "measured."   

With the market relying on that notion, the removal of the "measured" word from the statement would raise fears that the Fed was embarking on an even more aggressive tightening path and would hurt bond prices, analysts said.   

Even with the retention of the word "measured," however, any succinct description of the economy that the Fed offers will sound rather positive, a portrayal that will imply, if not overtly state, that further rate hikes lie ahead.   

The Fed has raised interest rates nine times since June 2004 in quarter-percentage point increments, bringing the benchmark fed funds rate to 3.25 percent from a four-decade low of 1.0 percent.   

The market is "sensing a Fed tightening at each of this year's remaining four (monetary policy) meetings," said Merrill Lynch Chief North American Economist David Rosenberg.   

Fed funds futures contracts reflect a 60 percent chance that the central bank will push its benchmark federal funds rate to 4.25 percent by year-end, he noted.   

What worries the Fed about strong economic growth -- on Monday, Goldman, Sachs marked up its growth forecast for the next four quarters "significantly" -- is the potential pickup in inflation pressures, economists said. Because of that, the bond market will pay close attention to Tuesday's report on second-quarter productivity and labor costs.   

Economists polled by Reuters estimated that productivity rose 2.0 percent in the second quarter, a more subdued gain than the 2.9 percent rise in the first quarter of the year.   

They forecast a 2.75 percent increase in labor costs, a tamer reading than the 3.3 percent gain recorded in the first quarter, which should be soothing to the bond market.   

"Compensation per hour and unit labor costs probably moderated in the second quarter after large gains in the previous two quarters," economists at UBS Securities said in a research note, noting that much of the previous two quarters' surge reflected bonus income and stock option realizations.   

Many economists once expected U.S. growth to decelerate toward the end of this year, allowing the Fed to take a break from raising interest rates to mull the impact of the monetary tightening it had already implemented.   

No longer.   

Goldman, Sachs said it marked up its growth forecast on evidence of an earlier-than-expected end to the recent inventory cycle and stronger global demand.   

"As a consequence, we now expect the unemployment rate to continue falling and Fed officials to tighten more than we previously thought likely," Goldman said.   

Goldman said it expected bond yields to rise to nearly 5 percent by year-end and to peak at 5.1 percent around the middle of next year.   

In late trade on Monday, the benchmark Treasury 10-year notes <US10YT=RR> yielded 4.44 percent.   
   RFMARKETS-BONDS-OUTLOOK (REPEAT)|LANGEN|AUF|DNP   NSe1115 : Employment Costs/Productivity | e1202 : Interest Rates | mntdbt : National Government Debt/Bond Markets | nanl : Analysis | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REnyc : New York City | namz : North America | usa : United States | use : Northeast U.S. | usny : New York   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument LBA0000020050808e1880025u  



 HDFACTBOX-Factors Fed to consider at policy meeting      WC635 words   PD8 August 2005   ET18:04   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2005 Reuters Limited   
   LPNEW YORK, Aug 8 (Reuters) - The Federal Reserve is all but assured to raise the benchmark U.S. interest rate by a quarter-percentage point when its policy group meets on Tuesday, analysts say.   

A Reuters poll of 22 primary dealers was unanimous in predicting that the Fed would raise its federal funds rate to 3.50 percent in what would be the central bank's 10th consecutive 25-basis-point tightening since June 2004, when the rate was at a four-decade low of 1 percent.   
   TDMost of the economists surveyed expect the Fed to retain key language in the statement it releases after the meeting. That is, they expect the Fed to continue to say that policy remains accommodative and that accommodation can be removed at a measured pace.   

ECONOMIC CONDITIONS   

Since the Fed's last meeting on June 29-30, signs have pointed to strength in the U.S. economy. In general, inflation indicators have been muted, though there has been some evidence of upward price pressures in the labor market.   

* The government's advanced report on second-quarter economic growth showed gross domestic product (GDP) expanded 3.4 percent in the April-June period.   

The rate was slower than the 3.8 percent pace of growth in the first quarter, but economists noted that inventory drawdowns subtracted significantly from growth. Many now expect stock rebuilding will contribute to robust growth later this year.   

* U.S. non-farm payrolls rose a healthy 207,000 in July while jobs growth was revised higher for both June and May. The jobless rate was steady at 5.0 percent.   

* The Institute for Supply Management's index of factory activity rose to 56.6 in July from 53.8 in June. Its non-manufacturing index slipped to 60.5 in July from 62.2 in June. Readings above 50 indicate expansion in the sector.   

* Consumer prices, as measured by the Consumer Price Index, were unchanged in June as gasoline prices eased. Excluding food and energy, consumer prices rose 0.1 percent.   

Producer price pressures also were contained. The Producer Price Index was unchanged in June overall and down 0.1 percent excluding food and energy.   

The core Personal Consumption Expenditure (PCE) index, the Fed's favorite measure of inflation, rose an annualized 1.8 percent on quarter in the April-June period compared with an upwardly revised 2.4 percent rise in the first three months of the year. Core PCE was up 1.9 percent on year in June, compared with a 2.0 percent rise in May and in April.   

Average hourly earnings rose 0.4 percent in July, the biggest rise in a year. Earnings were up 2.7 percent on year.   

U.S. crude oil prices rose to new intraday highs near $64 per barrel on Monday.   

* Yields on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note <US10YT=RR> have risen since late June from just under four percent to nearly 4.4 percent.   

WHAT THE FED HAS SAID   

In semiannual testimony to Congress on July 20, Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan was blunt in his view that the fed funds rate should continue to move higher.   

"Our baseline outlook for the U.S. economy is one of sustained economic growth and contained inflation pressures," the chairman said. "In our view, realizing this outcome will require the Federal Reserve to continue to remove monetary accommodation."   

San Francisco Fed President Janet Yellen, who is not a voting member this year, said on July 29 that rates were still in a range "normally considered stimulative." She also said that 3.5 percent was "the absolute lower end of a neutral range."   
   RFECONOMY-FED-FACTORS (FACTBOX)|LANGEN|Table|ABN|E|RBN|U|D|M|MNI|RNP|DNP   NSe1102 : Money Supply | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvexe : Executive Branch | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gvbod : Government Bodies | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | mcpdbt : Corporate Debt/Bond Markets   REusa : United States | namz : North America | usny : New York | use : Northeast U.S.   IPCFED | MCE | DBT | GVD | POL | WASH | INT | MUNI   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument LBA0000020050808e188001nm  



 HDUS Treasuries barely move after fall on jobs data     WC243 words   PD8 August 2005   ET08:12   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2005 Reuters Limited  
   LPTOKYO, Aug 8 (Reuters) - U.S. Treasuries barely moved in Asia on Monday after strong employment data thumped the bonds in U.S. trade, and traders said the market was unlikely to move higher this week with a Fed meeting and debt auctions on the horizon.  

The benchmark 10-year yield hit a four-month high on Friday after a strong reading in U.S. payrolls data cemented expectations of more interest rate hikes by the Federal Reserve.  
   TDTraders said they had little reason to expect a rebound in Treasuries this week, when new Treasury note offers are scheduled. The Federal Reserve is expected to raise rates at a policy meeting on Tuesday.  

"I think the market will be wary of further rising interest rates this week," said a trader at a Japanese bank.  

The 10-year U.S. Treasuries <US10YT=RR> note stood at 97-27/32 to yield 4.40 percent, unchanged from late U.S. levels.  

U.S. Treasuries slumped on Friday after data showed the U.S. economy added 207,000 new jobs in July, above the market projection for an increase of 183,000.  

That brought this year's average monthly job gains to 191,000, a pace economists see as strong enough to slowly tighten the labour market, possibly fuelling inflation.  
   RFMARKETS-JAPAN-TREASURIES|LANGEN|RBN|ABN|M|J|D|NAT|RNP|DNP|PTD|PMF   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REjap : Japan | usa : United States | asiaz : Asia | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America   IPCDBT | GVD | INT | MCE   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument LBA0000020050808e188000cb  
 Page 1 of 1      2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.


 

 Page 1      2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.

