 


 HDFT.com site : Fed in focus for currency markets.   BYChris Flood    WC468 words   PD30 January 2006   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPCurrency markets face a busy week for data releases while the latest interest rate setting meetings by the US Federal Reserve on Tuesday and the European Central bank on Thursday provide the real focus for investors.

The US meeting will be Alan Greenspan's last as chairman of the Federal Reserve, a historic occasion but, it will be business as usual. The Fed is expected to raise rates by 25 basis points to 4.5 per cent and the accompanying statement will be examined in detail for any hints on whether an end to monetary tightening is in sight.
   TD"Although there may be some further changes to the Fed statement, the message is likely to be that the economic data will dictate the future course of monetary policy allowing Ben Bernanke the greatest degree of flexibility from the outset (as the Fed's new chairman)," said Derek Halpenny at Bank of Tokyo Mitsubishi.

US GDP figures released on Friday showed weaker-than-expected growth in the fourth quarter but the impact of this was outweighed by higher-than-expected readings for inflationary pressures, as measured by the core personal consumption expenditure deflator.

The data releases this week include consumer confidence, the ISM surveys on manufacturing and services and the vital employment report. These are expected to underline the strength of current economic activity. The high level of oil prices and intensifying geo-political pressures over Iran also mean that US policymakers need to retain room for manouvre with interest rates.

The dollar traded at $1.2155 against the euro and at $1.7708 against sterling.

The European Central Bank is expected to keep interest rates unchanged at 2.25 per cent and the accompanying press conference is expected to prepare the market for a quarter-point increase in March.

The euro weakened aginst the dollar over the course of last week as earlier expectations of a narrowing in the interest rate differential between Europe and the US were scaled back.

IMM Commitment of traders data released on Friday showed euro speculative positions increased to the largest net total since late November 2004. Analysts said speculators had built excessively long positions in the euro against the dollar on the prospect of a narrowing interest rate differential between the US and the euro-zone. However, the increasing prospect of a US rate hike and ECB pause had forced these players from the market.

The yen continued with its recent weak performance against major trading partners on Monday after the release of weaker than expected industrial production data. The yen traded at Y117.81 against the dollar after industrial production rose 1.4 per cent in December compared with market expectations for an increase of 1.8 per cent. 
   RF46872274   COmitfin : Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Inc.   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | e52 : Euro Zone/Currency | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News | gdip : International Relations | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTCOM00020060131e21u0000n  



 HDFT.com site : Fed in focus for currency markets.   BYChris Flood    WC643 words   PD31 January 2006   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPThe dollar continued its recent strong performance against major trading partners on Monday as dealers positioned themselves ahead of the latest interest rate setting meetings by the US Federal Reserve, on Tuesday, and the European Central Bank, on Thursday.

The Fed is widely expected to mark Alan Greenspan's last meeting as chairman with a 25 basis points increase in rates to 4.5 per cent, further improving the dollar's yield advantage over other currencies.
   TDThe dollar traded in a narrow range against the euro around $1.2090, little changed on the day.

Interest rate differentials have acted as one of the main drivers for the dollar-euro and the Fed's accompanying statement will be examined in detail for any hints on whether an end to monetary tightening is in sight.

Holly Huffman, of JPMorgan, said the Fed's statement would leave Ben Bernanke, the incoming chairman, "wiggle room" to shape the policy debate but this could leave markets with a lingering question over how much higher rates could go.

Against sterling, the dollar eased fractionally to $1.7671.

At the start of a busy week for data releases, US personal income and expenditure data for December showed a stronger-than-expected rise in both consumer spending and inflation, as measured by the core personal consumption expenditure deflator. Dealers said the data suggested there was more work for the Fed to do on interest rates.

The ECB is expected to keep interest rates unchanged at 2.25 per cent on Thursday while using the press conference to prepare the market for a quarter-point increase in March.

Ashraf Laidi, chief currency analyst at MG Financial Group, said there was a 60 per cent chance eurozone rates would rise this week after improvement in business conditions in Germany.

The latest IMM Commitment of Traders data, released on Friday, showed speculators' net long euro positions rose to the highest since late November 2004. Analysts said speculators had built excessively long positions in the euro against the dollar on the prospect of a narrowing interest rate differential between the US and the eurozone. But the prospect of a US rate rise and ECB pause had forced these players from the market.

The yen continued its recent disappointing performance after the release of weaker-than-expected industrial production data. The yen weakened 0.3 per cent to Y117.61 against the dollar after industrial production rose 1.4 per cent in December, compared with market expectations for an increase of 1.8 per cent. The euro rose 0.2 per cent to Y142.16.

The Swiss franc was under pressure as expectations of an interest rate rise in March have been scaled back following recent disappointing retail sales data. The dollar firmed up 0.1 per cent at SFr1.2865 while the euro rose 0.2 per cent to SFr1.5548.

Emerging market currencies traded in a nervous sideways pattern but dealers said there was no indication that risk appetite had diminished in spite of geopolitical concerns over Iran.

The Polish zloty fell 0.1 per cent against the euro to 3.8243 zlotys after gross domestic product data showed an encouraging upswing in growth in the fourth quarter. The Polish central bank is expected to cut interest rates by a quarter point today and the parliament is due to vote on the 2006 budget. Dealers said that in spite of the political uncertainty, the zloty was well supported and could rally further once the budget was approved.

The Slovakian koruna traded at SK37.38 against the euro with no change expected in interest rates today. The South African rand has enjoyed a strong performance since November, aided by rising gold prices. However, the dollar rose 0.5 per cent to R6.1535. 
   RF46894840   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTCOM00020060201e21v00007  



 HDFT.com site : Market overview: Stage set for Greenspan.   BYTony Tassell    WC586 words   PD31 January 2006   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPFinancial markets braced themselves for Alan Greenspan's departure from the helm of the US Federal Reserve.

Lingering doubts over the risks of the handover of the Fed chairmanship to Ben Bernanke added to the traditional caution ahead of Tuesday's meeting of the interest rate-setting committee.
   TDMarkets were widely expecting the Federal Open Markets Committee to raise its benchmark interest rate by a quarter point to 4.5 per cent - the fourteenth consecutive increase.

But investors were awaiting the details of the statement accompanying the decision for signals on future rate policy under Mr Bernanke. This in turn focused minds on what Stephen Roach, Morgan Stanley chief economist, described yesterday as the "changing of the guard at the world's most important central bank".

He said many analysts believed that forward-looking financial markets had already discounted any risks associated with this event. But Mr Roach said this assessment was "hard to buy" given unusually tight credit spreads and low eq-uity volatility.

"When he leaves office, Alan Greenspan will take his books, his papers and his pictures off the wall. But the most important thing he will take with him will be the nearly 18l years of confidence he has earned in the financial markets," he said.

"Ben Bernanke walks in the next day as a very smart and talented man - but with a clean slate on the confidence front .?.?. Financial markets have an uncanny knack of quickly testing a new Fed chairman. This is not a handover to take lightly."

Keith Wade, chief economist at Schroders, added that the issue of risks over the transition to Mr Bernanke was "still open". "It could take several meetings [of the FOMC] before people get a feel for him and there could be some turbulence along the way," he said.

Mr Wade said it was possible the FOMC could adopt a more hawkish tone in an announcement of another rate rise given some recent signs of a pick-up in inflation. However, he said it was more likely the statement would be broadly neutral to give Mr Bernanke a "cleaner slate to work with".

Mr Wade said the FOMC was then likely to raise rates a further 25 basis points to 4.75 per cent at its next meeting, on March 28. This would represent the peak of the current cycle of rate increases.

"The market already thinks of him [Bernanke] as dovish, so he would not want to confirm that by not raising interest rates then," he said.

Ahead of key payroll data on Friday, there were some mixed US economic figures for markets to digest. Consumer spending rose by 0.9 per cent in December, which was higher than expected. However, the core rate, a measure of inflation that excludes volatile food and energy costs and is closely watched by the Fed, expanded at just 0.1 per cent.

US Treasuries weakened a little ahead of the Fed meeting while the dollar traded in a narrow range against the euro and the equity market was largely flat. By midday, the Dow Jones Industrial Average, the Nasdaq Composite and S&P 500 index were all largely unchanged.

In Europe, the FTSE Eurofirst 300 index closed 0.1 per cent down at 1,318.97. The fall came as Morgan Stanley's strategy team downgraded its stance on European equities to neutral, saying the market was "approaching the point of maximum bullishness". 
   RF46894869   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTCOM00020060201e21v00010  



 HDFT.com site : US dollar rallies on Fed announcement.   BYJennifer Hughes in New York and Steve Johnson in London    WC612 words   PD31 January 2006   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPThe dollar rallied off lows on Tuesday after the Federal Reserve avoided signalling explicitly that it had finished raising interest rates.

The US central bank, as expected, raised rates by a further quarter-point to 4.5 per cent.
   TDBut the bank tweaked the language of the accompanying statement, maintaining that "some further policy tightening may be needed" - compared with the comment after its December meeting that "some further measured policy firming is likely to be needed."

"With another 25 basis point hike a distinct possibility at the March meeting, dollar bulls may find solace in the announcement," said analysts at ActionEconomics.

Shortly after the decision, the euro retreated to $1.213 from $1.217 ahead of the news. The yen slipped from Y116.9 to Y117.2.

Ahead of the Fed's announcement, much of the attention had been on the Australian and New Zealand dollars which rallied amid renewed optimism over the economic prospects for the region.

Given the market's belief that the Fed was nearing, if not at, the peak of its rate-rising cycle, the yields of Australia and New Zealand, where short-term rates are 5.5 per cent and 7.25 per cent respectively, have seemed attractive alternatives.

Yesterday the kiwi dollar was helped by a sharp rise in December building permits and reports that Japanese entities have launched two more kiwi-denominated uridashi bonds.

The currency wobbled in mid-January when the government and central bank took the unusual step of warning about the risks of holding kiwi-denominated bonds.

But news of the fresh issuance, indicating that Japanese investors were not deterred, allowed the kiwi to rise 0.7 per cent to $0.6853 against the US dollar by the end of London trading.

Tom Vosa, head of market economics at National Australia Bank, attributed much of the Aussie's rally to the release of his bank's monthly business survey.

The survey suggested a pick-up in business conditions and a wider economy robust enough to dissuade the Reserve Bank from cutting rates "for some considerable period".

Mr Vosa also said the Aussie would be helped by an expectation that contract prices for coal, a significant Australian export, will be renewed at higher rates in February.

In London, the Aussie was up 1.2 per cent at $0.7570 against the greenback and 0.6 per cent at Y88.51 to the yen.

Asian currencies again exhibited broad strength, with the South Korean won rising 1.2 per cent to a fresh eight-year high of Won958.9 to the US dollar as foreign investors continued to snap up Korean equities.

The yen initially joined in the rally as unemployment fell faster than expected in December while the jobs per applicant ratio rose to 1 for the first time since 1992.

Household spending and manufacturing activity also improved.

The data helped strengthen convictions that Japan is moving towards ending its policy of quantitative monetary easing, a precursor to abandoning its zero interest rate policy.

The yen's gains petered out in late European trade to leave the currency a fraction firmer at Y142.10 against the euro.

The yen softened to Y208.31 against sterling, which was bolstered by firm UK housing data and robust consumer confidence and mortgage approval numbers. Retail sales data were less impressive.

The Canadian dollar made gains, briefly hitting a fresh 14-year high of C$1.1412 to the greenback, because gross domestic product data was in line with forecasts and merger and acquisition talk circulated. 
   RF46907682   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | i831 : Financial Investments | ibnk : Banking/Credit | iinv : Investing/Securities   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTCOM00020060201e21v0005h  



 HDFT.com site : Lex: US interest rates.   WC269 words   PD31 January 2006   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPEven the most experienced athletes can drop the baton at the end of a great run. Not, it appears, central bankers. Alan Greenspan's hand-over of the Federal Reserve chairmanship to Ben Bernanke was seamless. Markets barely budged. Yet another quarter point rise, to 4.5 per cent, brings interest rates back near neutral territory. Changes to the Fed statement left Mr Bernanke's hands free for the future.

Importantly, the Fed took the tightening process off auto-pilot by saying further interest rate rises "may" be needed to keep growth and price stability in balance. Before, further tightening was "likely". The notion of "measured" increases was also removed to increase Mr Bernanke's flexibility.
   TDThat does not, however, mean the tightening cycle is over. At least one more quarter point hike remains likely. After various one-off factors dragged down economic growth at the end of last year, it is likely to rebound in the first quarter. There must also be a concern that inflation, already near the top of the Fed's comfort zone, spikes up in the spring as it has for the last two years.

The handover was smooth. But it has come just before an inflection point for interest rates - and possibly for growth if a slowing housing market takes its toll later in the year. After a run of unanimous decisions to normalise rates, there will be increased potential for disagreement as open market committee members weigh how the growth and inflation outlook will develop. Mr Bernanke will have to prove his fitness quickly. 
   RF46909506   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTCOM00020060201e21v0005z  



 HDFT.com site : Bond investors await Fed and ECB.   BYJoanna Chung in London and David Turner in Tokyo    WC315 words   PD30 January 2006   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPEurozone government bonds were on the backfoot on Monday amid cautious trading ahead of interest rate decisions by both the European Central Bank and the US Federal Reserve this week.

The ECB is widely expected to leave rates on hold at 2.25 per cent on Thursday though many analysts expect the bank to raise rates later in the year.
   TDBut the US Fed is expected to raise rates for the 14th consecutive time to 4.5 per cent on Tuesday. This hike will coincide with the Fed chairman, Alan Greenspan's last day on the job - after more than 18 years.

But ahead of the rate decisions, investors were awaiting economic data from the US, including US personal income and consumption data for last month.

By mid-day trading in London, the yield on the two-year Schatz was up 2.8 basis points at 2.960 per cent and the yield on the 10-year Bund added 1.2bp to 3.491 per cent.

The two-year gilt yield edged up 0.1bp to 4.334 per cent and the yield on the 10-year Bund was 1.2bp higher at 4.209 per cent.

The yield on the benchmark 10-year Japanese government bond rose 1.5bp to 1.555 per cent, responding to a rise in the Nikkei 225 stock index to a five-year closing high.

But the fall in bond prices was limited by bargain hunting among Japanese institutional investors - tempted by the recent rise in yields as the stock market recovered from January's Livedoor fiasco.

Traders eagerly await today's Y1,700bn auction of two-year bonds. Analysts expect firm pricing, since expectations of an imminent tightening of monetary policy have been reined in by aggressive ministerial comments. 
   RF46872856   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSm12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mntdbt : National Government Debt/Bond Markets | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1202 : Interest Rates | e52 : Euro Zone/Currency | ecat : Economic News | ecbnk : European Central Bank | eec : European Union | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTCOM00020060131e21u0000s  



 HDFT.com site : Dollar gains as market eyes March rate rise.   BYSteve Johnson    WC649 words   PD1 February 2006   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPThe US dollar rose on Wednesday as the market concluded that Tuesday's Federal Reserve statement increased the probability of a March interest rate increase.

As expected, the Federal Open Market Committee raised US rates by a quarter of a point for the fourteenth consecutive meeting, taking rates to 4.5 per cent.
   TDThe accompanying statement said that further tightening "may be needed". Although this was softer language than the phrase "is likely to be needed" that featured in the FOMC's December statement, the wording was taken to mean that the committee was minded to put into effect a further rate rise in March.

The futures market is pricing in an 84 per cent probability of such an outcome.

"The new wording still implies a bias towards further tightening," said Paul Ashworth, economist at Capital Economics, although he still expected a housing-led slowdown to send rates sliding to 3 per cent by the end of 2007.

Derek Halpenny, senior currency economist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, was more hawkish: "The FOMC erred on the side of tightening. We expect incoming economic data to justify not one but two 0.25 point increases before the FOMC decides to pause."

The dollar rose as high as $1.2075 to the euro, a cent above its level prior to the FOMC statement.

However, the gains were pared on the release of soft US economic data. A slide in pending home sales in December to the lowest levels in two years allied to weak mortgage approvals revived fears over the state of the housing sector.

The Institute for Supply Management's manufacturing index managed to combine a weaker headline reading with rising inflationary pressures, echoing last week's gross domestic product data.

"The cracks are starting to appear. Inflation numbers are a little bit on the high side but activity data is starting to show some weakness," said Ian Stannard, currency strategist at BNP Paribas.

Mr Stannard believes the data remain consistent with one more rate rise, but he forecasts a cut by the end of the year, a view starting to be factored into the futures market.

The dollar slipped back to $1.2087 to the euro by mid-session in New York trade and sat at Y117.92 to the yen, a gain of 0.9 per cent since the FOMC statement, and $1.7780 against sterling, a rise of 0.3 per cent.

Sterling exhibited broad strength, rising 0.5 per cent to GBP0.6797 to the euro and 0.5 per cent to Y209.65 against the yen, a seven-week high.

The pound was supported by talk of sterling-positive merger and acquisition flows, with Lloyds TSB and Unilever reportedly on the block, as well as a solid manufacturing survey.

The Canadian dollar remained firm at C$1.1406 to the greenback, within 0.3 cents of the 14-year high it set late on Tuesday. With speculative positioning still unstretched, Mitul Kotecha, global head of FX strategy at Calyon, suggested the loonie, which has risen alongside commodity prices and Toronto's buoyant equity market, "may continue to push higher over the short term".

He said the currency had outperformed weak natural gas prices in recent weeks, breaking a correlation that existed in 2005.

"With potential for some catch-up with the drop in natural gas prices, the Canadian dollar will look increasingly vulnerable over coming weeks."

The South Korean won hit another eight-year high of won957.3 to the dollar, despite a pull-back in Seoul's equity market, before slipping to won962 amid suspected central bank intervention.

Inflation came in at 0.8 per cent month on month in January, leading HSBC to predict a Korean rate rise a week today, supporting its bullish view on the won. 
   RF46930682   COmitfin : Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Inc.   INi81401 : Central Banking | i831 : Financial Investments | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | iinv : Investing/Securities   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | ecat : Economic News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REskorea : South Korea | usa : United States | asiaz : Asia | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTCOM00020060202e2210001y  



 SEThe Economy   HDFed Lifts Rate by Quarter Point, Casts Doubt on More Increases --- Last Act Under Greenspan Leaves Space for Successor To Chart the Next Move   BYBy Greg Ip    WC878 words   PD1 February 2006   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGA2   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 2006, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LPThe Federal Reserve reached a turning point in both leadership and interest-rate policy as it raised short-term interest rates for the 14th consecutive time but suggested that further increases are no longer assured.

In its last policy meeting with Alan Greenspan as chairman, the Fed yesterday raised its short-term interest-rate target to 4.5% from 4.25% and left a free hand to his successor, Ben Bernanke, for deciding the next move.
   TDIn a statement accompanying the rate increase, the Fed said, "Some further policy firming may be needed" to keep growth steady and inflation low -- a signal that another rate increase is still on the table. But it was less definitive than the statement after the Fed's Dec. 13 meeting, which said such action was "likely to be needed." The wording change suggests that prospects for an increase at the Fed's March 28 meeting and after depend on incoming economic data.

The Fed expressed no alarm over a sharp slowdown in economic growth in the fourth quarter of 2005, but it remained wary of inflation. Though economic data have been "uneven, the expansion in economic activity appears solid," it said. Underlying inflation "has stayed relatively low," but "possible increases in resource utilization, as well as elevated energy prices, have the potential to add to inflation pressures."

The shift in language coincided with the end of Mr. Greenspan's 18 1/2-year tenure at the central bank, during which the U.S. economy experienced the longest expansion on record and just two mild recessions.

At the start of yesterday's meeting, Mr. Greenspan was greeted by a standing ovation by other Fed policy makers. Afterward, he went to a lunch reception attended by 180 Fed staff and policy makers. They presented him with a chair with his nameplate from the Fed's board room, a baseball glove signed by each of the 12 reserve-bank presidents, and the Fed flag that had flown over the building during the meeting.

"I know this institution will go on doing extraordinary things, and I will look on from the sidelines and cheer," Mr. Greenspan said, according to a Fed official.

After that, he went to a reception in the atrium of the Fed with about 1,500 retirees and staff. "We have a very special mission," he told them. "We are in charge of the nation's currency, and the central bank, because of that, is involved in everyone's daily lives. We are the guardians of their purchasing power." The 79-year-old Mr. Greenspan plans to set up a consulting firm in Washington, give speeches and write a book.

As the Fed meeting ended, the U.S. Senate voted overwhelmingly to confirm Ben Bernanke to succeed Mr. Greenspan. Mr. Bernanke, 52, was most recently chairman of President Bush's Council of Economic Advisers. He was a Fed governor from 2002 to 2005. He is to be sworn in at 9 a.m. today.

Yesterday's decision to raise the target for the federal-funds rate, charged on overnight loans between banks, was unanimous among the 10 voting members of the 17-member Federal Open Market Committee. (There are two vacancies.) The Fed also raised the less-important discount rate, charged on short-term Fed loans to commercial banks, to 5.5% from 5.25%. In response, many U.S. commercial banks raised their prime rate, the benchmark for many consumer and business loans, to 7.5% from 7.25%.

Stock and bond markets showed little reaction to yesterday's move, evidence of how transparent and predictable the Fed became in Mr. Greenspan's later years.

Still, with yesterday's statement, the Fed signaled that its recent period of exceptionally clear guidance is ending. When it began to raise the rate from a 46-year low of 1% in 2004, it sought to avoid the turmoil that accompanied its rate increases in 1994 by telegraphing its intentions. Its statements from that May until last November said rates were "accommodative," that is below some neutral level that neither stimulates nor restrains growth, but that rates would rise at "a pace that is likely to be measured," which came to mean no more than a quarter of a percentage point per meeting.

That interest-rate guidance eliminated most of the guesswork and volatility that used to accompany Fed rate changes. Some economists say that is one reason investors have been willing to accept very low returns on long-term Treasury bonds. Their yields, at around 4.5%, are about where they stood when the Fed began to tighten monetary policy in 2004.

Economists said that by suggesting another rate increase isn't automatic, Fed officials have left Mr. Bernanke more latitude on where to direct rates.

---

Online Today: WSJ.com subscribers can see how the Federal Reserve's statement compares with the one in December, and read the full text of the Fed's statement. Plus, see complete coverage of changes at the Fed, at WSJ.com/OnlineToday. 

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | ecat : Economic News | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvexe : Executive Branch | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gvbod : Government Bodies   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCFED | USG | NND | ECN | LMJ | TPT   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument J000000020060201e2210002k  



 HDConsensus Building: New Chairman Will Take Over An Increasingly Democratic Fed --- As Greenspan Leaves Stage, Bernanke Faces Officials With More Policy Clout --- A Debate Via Encrypted Email   BYBy Greg Ip    WC2,319 words   PD30 January 2006   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGA1   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 2006, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LPAs the Federal Reserve's new chairman, Ben Bernanke will have to do more than just get interest rates right. He'll also have to deal with the Fed's increasingly democratic decision-making process. The changes, while subtle, have given some senior Fed officials greater influence over the setting of monetary policy.

Though a highly respected economist, Mr. Bernanke won't initially command the deference that Alan Greenspan earned during more than 18 years as chairman. With his colleagues expecting to contribute more, Mr. Bernanke may face a delicate tradeoff when they disagree. He might compromise, which could damp his influence over the Fed's message. Or he could decide to impose his views, which could provoke dissents and raise questions about his authority.
   TDFed officials say the increase in internal democracy is both inevitable and constructive, and has led to more collegial policy making. The Fed's tradition of deciding by consensus is well entrenched, they say. Some officials say an increase in formal dissents would even be healthy. At turning points in the economy, they could reveal honest disagreements among officials on difficult questions.

Tomorrow, Mr. Greenspan will preside over his last meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee, the panel of policy makers that sets monetary policy. It's likely to raise short-term interest rates to 4.5% from 4.25%. On the same day, the Senate is expected to confirm his successor, Mr. Bernanke, currently a White House economic adviser. Mr. Bernanke will likely be sworn in the following day.

Mr. Bernanke was a Fed governor from 2002 to 2005 and before that, chairman of Princeton University's economics department. In those jobs, he earned a reputation as being collegial and committed to consensus.

Laurence Meyer, a Fed governor from 1996 to 2002, says that Mr. Bernanke, as a governor, probably "had the same view I did: some frustration with the power of the chairman, dreaming of being on a more democratic FOMC. So I say, `be careful what you wish for.' "

An early glimpse of this democracy in action unfolded late last year in the run up to the Fed's Dec. 13 policy meeting. Virtually all Wall Street economists expected the Fed to raise interest rates by a quarter of a percentage point. Still unclear, however, was whether the Fed would signal a change in the future course of rates.

For FOMC members, most of the suspense ended long before they gathered around a huge conference table at Fed headquarters in Washington, D.C., according to people familiar with the process. About a week earlier, the five Fed governors and 12 regional reserve bank presidents who participate in committee decisions had received three drafts of the statement from the Fed's staff.

A debate ensued, these people say. Several presidents circulated extensive comments via encrypted email. By the day of the meeting, the FOMC had largely agreed on what the statement should say. The key point: it would no longer call interest rates "accommodative" -- a broad hint that rate increases could soon come to a halt.

When Congress created the Federal Reserve in 1913, it deliberately gave considerable power over monetary policy to 12 autonomous reserve banks run by private-sector boards. The board of governors in Washington was relatively weak and the head of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York was the most influential policy maker.

The Fed's failure to prevent the Great Depression led to an overhaul in 1935. The composition of the FOMC was shifted to seven governors appointed by the U.S. president and confirmed by the Senate (two seats are currently vacant). Only five of 12 bank presidents retained a vote. As presently constituted, they are the head of the New York Fed and four others on a rotating basis.

In practice, the Fed votes by consensus. Many decisions are unanimous, and while official dissents are common, chairmen rarely lose votes.

The degree of comity varies with personalities and economic conditions. Paul Volcker, chairman from 1979 to 1987, often faced opposition to his anti-inflation policies from hostile, Reagan-appointed governors. Mr. Greenspan's first years were also marked by frequent dissents. At least one member of the FOMC dissented at every meeting in 1989. In April 1991, Mr. Greenspan convened a conference call to propose a rate cut but withdrew the proposal when a majority of FOMC members objected.

In February 1994, Mr. Greenspan wanted to end a prolonged period of low rates with a quarter-point increase. He was shocked when most FOMC members asked for a half-point hike. Only after Mr. Greenspan insisted that a half-point risked "cracking" the markets did the FOMC unanimously approve his proposal, according to a transcript of the meeting.

The dynamic shifted over the next few years. President Clinton, persuaded by his advisers to reduce friction with the Fed, appointed governors with strong backgrounds in economics. Some appointees, such as Alice Rivlin, shared Mr. Greenspan's optimism about the quiescence of inflation at a time when many of the reserve presidents were still inclined to prefer higher interest rates.

Ms. Rivlin, a former White House budget director and longtime Brookings Institution scholar, recalls running into Mr. Greenspan shortly after her 1996 nomination. "He took me aside and said, `I hope they get you confirmed because I'm really going to need your help.' What he meant was to fight the hawks."

A turning point occurred that September. The economy was growing briskly, unemployment had fallen sharply and many presidents and some governors wanted to raise rates. Mr. Greenspan was convinced that the spread of information technology enabled the economy to grow faster without generating inflation. In the end, he persuaded the FOMC to go along, with just one dissent.

It turned out Mr. Greenspan was correct. After that, some Fed officials found it difficult to disagree with Mr. Greenspan, knowing how many times he'd been right in the past. Strong economic growth and low inflation also gave officials little to argue over.

Mr. Greenspan also achieved consensus in more subtle ways. During the 1990s he visited with his fellow governors the Friday before FOMC meetings to explain his proposal. When individual governors or reserve bank presidents said they intended to dissent, Mr. Greenspan often tried to change their mind, usually on the merits. On rare occasions, he invoked the importance of solidarity, some former FOMC members say. But, they add, he always listened, urged them to state clearly at the meeting their reasons for disagreeing and never belittled another's point of view.

Moreover, FOMC members typically observed an unwritten rule against lobbying each other on monetary policy between meetings, which was seen as violating the spirit of the FOMC. That, too, enhanced Mr. Greenspan's dominance, says Mr. Meyer, the former governor.

Even as Mr. Greenspan was solidifying his authority, the Fed was beginning to change in ways that created new tensions within its traditional way of conducting business.

For one, the Fed's regional reserve bank presidents were seeing their role in non-monetary policy matters shrink because of technological change and bank consolidation. That ate into their authority over areas such as regulating banks. Some presidents say this made them more determined to make a contribution on monetary policy.

In the past decade, for example, the volume of check clearing has fallen as consumers turned to electronic payments as well as debit and credit cards. As for bank regulation, while the New York and Richmond districts have seen banks headquartered in their regions grow more important because of consolidation, others now have few, if any, large banks under their jurisdiction.

"It's very clear the Fed doesn't need 12 regional banks," says Ms. Rivlin. "Maybe you need four or six."

In October 2004, a proposal to standardize the regulation of complex financial institutions exposed the tension. A Fed governor suggested that regulators who scrutinized the U.S.'s largest banks report to the Fed board instead of reserve bank presidents. The reserve banks opposed the move.

Ultimately, the reporting lines were left alone and the two sides created a committee, chaired by the New York Fed, to standardize the examining process. The incident, however, underlined many reserve banks' shrinking autonomy.

"All those things have begun to reduce the role of reserve banks," says J. Alfred Broaddus, who was president of the Richmond Fed from 1993 to 2004. He says the decline in the reserve banks' autonomy in non-monetary matters could retard, by implication, their influence over monetary policy. "That's something we need to avoid," he says.

Indeed, even as reserve banks' total employment has fallen 16% since 1994, the number of staff devoted to economic and monetary policy has risen by more than a quarter.

At the same time, another development pushed FOMC members to demand a bigger say: the Fed's increasing reliance on written statements and other communications to guide market expectations.

As recently as 15 years ago, the Fed said almost nothing about its actions. Beginning in February 1994, the Fed issued a statement when it changed interest rates. It was an ad hoc action to ensure markets didn't misinterpret the move. The first statement was attributed to Mr. Greenspan, not the FOMC.

Over the years, the process became more formal. Before meetings, Mr. Greenspan drafted the statement with a handful of advisers, primarily Donald Kohn, who was the head of the division of monetary affairs and FOMC secretary until becoming a Fed governor in 2002. Governors sometimes discussed the draft the Monday before an FOMC meeting.

At the midmorning coffee break on the day of the meeting, Mr. Greenspan huddled in his office with Mr. Kohn, along with the president of the New York Fed, the Fed board's vice chairman and its director of public affairs to decide if the morning discussion required changing the draft. The final statement was distributed to FOMC members after they voted on rates and released to the media at 2:15 p.m.

Other FOMC officials were initially unperturbed by their lack of input but that changed as the statement's importance grew. In mid-1999, the Fed began to issue a written statement after every meeting, including the policy "tilt" -- the likely direction of the next interest rate change. In August 2003, it went further and said that its interest-rate target, then 1%, would stay low for a "considerable period." From May 2004 until last November, it said rates would rise at a "measured" pace.

At that point, the presidents protested. "There was unhappiness with the fact the statement was becoming a more crucial signal for monetary policy and we didn't have a chance [to influence it], just to look at it when it was given to us at the end of the meeting," recalls Mr. Broaddus. "Some presidents felt they were being excluded from that and complained."

In response, the FOMC overhauled its procedures. Beginning in 2004, the presidents would receive drafts of the statement a few days before a meeting. Typically, there were three versions. Version A was dovish, version C hawkish, and version B -- usually the one Mr. Greenspan preferred -- somewhere in the middle.

FOMC members got an additional outlet to air their views when they decided in late 2004 to release minutes three weeks after meetings. Previously, they'd been released after the subsequent meeting. The earlier release gave the minutes a greater impact on markets and prompted FOMC members to spend more time examining drafts and requesting changes before approving them. The minutes now appear to reflect a greater diversity of views.

The consultation last December was the most extensive so far. At their Nov. 1 policy meeting, officials agreed that their forward-looking language would soon need changing. At 4%, the Fed's interest-rate target was close to historic norms. It was getting harder to predict what the Fed would do next.

Shortly afterward, Mr. Greenspan asked his staff to solicit from FOMC members their views on the statement. That initial round of consultation was followed by the early December distribution of statement drafts and the subsequent email debate. Fed officials expect December's practice to become the norm.

December's process went smoothly in part because FOMC members broadly agreed on what to say. But if their views diverge, the process may take longer. Consensus may never be reached or differences may be watered down until the statement is drained of substance.

Another big unanswered question is how Mr. Bernanke will deal with this relatively open process. During his confirmation hearings, Mr. Bernanke said he is committed to building consensus on key issues, such as his desire for an explicit inflation target. In the past two months, he has met or talked on the phone with most FOMC members.

"Ben is the most tolerant person in the world," says Edward Gramlich, who served as a governor with Mr. Bernanke and is now acting provost at the University of Michigan. "He's from a university and universities plant lots of flowers, recognizing that several of them may bloom. Nobody gets offended if you have a different view."

Former FOMC members predict there will be no dissents in the early going because of Mr. Bernanke's readiness to consult and other members' desire for unity. With time, some former and current officials say, more dissents might be helpful, even though they can confuse markets. "At some points, I think a dissent can be constructive," says Robert Parry, San Francisco Fed president from 1986 to 2004. "It does show that there are other views about where the risks are." 





License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | ecat : Economic News | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvcng : Legislative Branch | gvexe : Executive Branch | npag : Page-One Story | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gvbod : Government Bodies | ncat : Content Types   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCPIC | CNG | FED | USG | MMR | NND | PGO | RGT | TPT   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument J000000020060130e21u00028  


 CLMCredit Markets   HDShort-Term Treasurys Take a Setback   BYBy Michael Mackenzie and Steven C. Johnson Dow Jones Newswires    WC620 words   PD1 February 2006   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGC4   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 2006, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LPShort-term Treasurys exited yesterday's session on a weaker footing, while longer-term Treasurys gained after the Federal Reserve raised short-term interest rates.

For borrowers with floating-rate debt, such as some types of home-equity loans, the Fed's 14th consecutive rate increase spells higher interest payments. Commercial banks yesterday began to raise the prime rate, the benchmark rate for certain types of corporate and consumer credit, to 7.50% from 7.25%.
   TDAt 4 p.m., the benchmark 10-year note was up 3/32 point, or 93.8 cents per $1,000 face value, at 99 26/32. Its yield fell to 4.523% from 4.533% Monday, as yields move inversely to prices. The two-year note lost 1/32 to 99 23/32 to yield 4.528% as short-term interest-rate futures see odds of 80% that the federal-funds rate will rise to 4.75% from the current 4.50%.

In what was Alan Greenspan's final day as Fed chairman, the Federal Open Market Committee, as expected, raised the federal-funds rate by a quarter-percentage point. The Senate yesterday confirmed Ben Bernanke as Mr. Greenspan's successor.

Market attention focused on the changes in the accompanying policy statement, which were in line with expectations. The statement omitted the word "measured" to describe future policy changes and said that further rate increases "may be needed" to keep inflation in check and growth on track.

The policy statement reflects the uncertainty over how the FOMC will end its series of rate increases, which began in June 2004 when the federal-funds rate was 1%.

"They have to tread carefully, they don't need to raise rates so they become restrictive as there is no inflation, so they are fumbling for a neutral funds rate," said Dominic Konstam, head of interest-rate strategy at Credit Suisse First Boston in New York.

Still, with the Fed showing a "bias to tighten policy," the funds rate could easily reach 5% or higher, he added.

The FOMC statement changes little in terms of investment strategies, which along with future Fed interest-rate moves will remain highly dependent on coming economic data for direction.

"From the fed funds to the two-year note out to the 10-year note, you've got rates that are virtually on top of each other," said Colin Lundgren, a portfolio manager at RiverSource Investments in Minneapolis, which has about $100 billion in fixed income under management. "As an investor, what attracts you to one versus the other has a lot to do with the economic outlook."

With investors expecting data on Friday to show a healthy gain of 250,000 jobs in January and anywhere from $46 billion to $50 billion in new supply next week, the bias remains to the downside for Treasurys, Mr. Lundgren said.

"I expect it could be some tough sledding here for bond investors," Mr. Lundgren said, adding it "appears the Fed is leaving the door open for another hike on March 28, but beyond that, who knows." 


 
                          AUCTION RESULTS 
 
   Here are the results of the Treasury auction of four-week bills. All 
bids are awarded at a single price at the market-clearing yield. Rates are 
determined by the difference between that price and the face value. 
 
Applications ....................................  $45,096,639,000 
Accepted bids ...................................  $18,000,162,000 
Accepted noncompetitively .......................     $196,239,000 
Foreign noncompetitively ........................               $0 
Auction price (Rate) ............................ 99.666333 (4.290%) 
Coupon equivalent ...............................            4.364% 
Bids at market-clearing yld accepted ............            14.55% 
Cusip number ....................................        912795WR8 
   

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | gvtre : Treasury Department | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m131 : Money Markets | mntdbt : National Government Debt/Bond Markets | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | gvexe : Executive Branch | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCTRE | USG | NND | TPX | CRD | MIM   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument J000000020060201e22100010  



 CLMTuesday's Markets   HDStocks Climb In Last Month For Greenspan   BYBy E.S. Browning    WC913 words   PD1 February 2006   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGC1   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 2006, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LPSTOCKS FELL on January's last day amid disappointment about Alan Greenspan's final meeting as Federal Reserve chairman, but still finished the bellwether month with clear gains.

Despite yesterday's decline of 35.06 points, or 0.32%, to 10864.86, the Dow Jones Industrial Average finished the year's first month with a gain of 1.4% -- the biggest January percentage increase since 1999. Although there are plenty of exceptions, the year's first month historically has often been a sign of things to come, with stocks more likely to rise in the ensuing 11 months if they go up in January.
   TDYesterday's declines were mild and limited. Small stocks posted gains, and on the New York Stock Exchange, more stocks rose than fell. The Russell 2000 small-stock index closed at a record, up 2.33 points, or 0.32%, at 733.20.

The problem was that, as Mr. Greenspan prepared to step aside today and be succeeded by Ben Bernanke at the Fed's helm, the news out of the Fed's regular January policy meeting wasn't entirely what investors had hoped.

Fed officials boosted their target short-term interest rate by another quarter point, to 4.5%, the 14th consecutive meeting at which they have increased rates since they started the process in June 2004. Higher rates make life more expensive for businesses and consumers, slowing the economy, and are bad for stocks. The rate increase wasn't the real problem, because it was anticipated.

What disappointed investors was the Fed's postmeeting statement, in which it warned that further rate increases "may be needed" to prevent inflation. Some investors had hoped that, with a new Fed chief, policy makers would avoid foreshadowing future rate increases, leaving Mr. Bernanke with a clean slate.

"There was an expectation that because it was Mr. Greenspan's last day in his position, that the decks would be cleared for Ben Bernanke. If there was any disappointment, it was that the decks certainly weren't cleared," said Matthew Johnson, head of stock syndication at New York brokerage firm Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. "There is plenty of room for the Fed to continue doing what they were doing."

The Fed's indication that it may have to keep raising rates came on top of general unease in the stock market about the transition from the known-and-trusted Mr. Greenspan to the less-known Mr. Bernanke. Investors were nervous when Mr. Greenspan succeeded Paul Volcker in 1987, and it could take some time for them to adjust to a new Fed chairman.

"The changing of the guard at the Fed and the uncertainty about the interest-rate outlook -- which we get right out of the gate with the new Fed chairman -- are going to create a lot of noise and potential volatility," said Leo Grohowski, chief-investment officer at U.S. Trust.

On top of that, investors got an additional jolt after regular trading hours, as Google Inc.'s quarterly profit fell well short of investor expectations. The stock plunged 12% in after-hours trading.

Gold futures, which investors turn to in times of uncertainty, hit a 25-year high in New York, rising $5 to $570.80 an ounce, up 10% in January. Crude-oil futures fell 43 cents, but remained high at $67.92 a barrel.

Despite the continuing interest-rate uncertainty, investors were optimistic about fourth-quarter results, about the 2006 profit outlook, and about the likelihood that the Fed will stop raising rates.

The Standard &Poor's 500-stock index finished the month with a 2.5% gain, despite a decline yesterday of 0.40%, or 5.12 points, to 1280.08. The Nasdaq Composite Index rose 4.6% in January, after edging down 0.04%, or 0.96 point, to 2305.82.

Historically, a strong January often has been good news for the rest of the year. In years when the Dow industrials have risen in January, the next 11 months have shown an above-average gain 61% of the time, according to a study done for The Wall Street Journal by Ned Davis Research. After a January decline, the rest of the year is above average only 34% of the time. Stocks fell in January 2005, and the rest of the year was disappointing.

Following yesterday's increase in the Fed's short-term rate target, banks including Bank of America Corp., J.P. Morgan Chase &Co. and Wachovia Corp. raised the prime lending rate, the benchmark for many consumer and business loans, to 7.5% from 7.25%. That is among the ways that the Fed's rate increases slow the economy and hold down inflation. They raise the cost of borrowing, restricting consumer spending and business activity.

In major U.S. market action:

Major stock indexes retreated. But on the Big Board, where 1.97 billion shares traded, 1,797 stocks rose and 1,528 fell.

Bond prices rose. The 10-year Treasury note rose 3/32, or 94 cents for each $1,000 invested, pushing the yield down to 4.523%. The 30-year bond was up 10/32 to yield 4.684%.

The dollar weakened. It traded at 117.30 yen, down from 117.62; the euro rose on the dollar to $1.2152 from $1.2085. 



License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   NSm11 : Equity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | e1202 : Interest Rates | gpersf : Personal Finance | gvtre : Treasury Department | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m131 : Money Markets | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | mntdbt : National Government Debt/Bond Markets | nsum : News Digest | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | glife : Living/Lifestyle | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | gvexe : Executive Branch | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | niwe : IWE Filter   REjap : Japan | usa : United States | asiaz : Asia | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America   IPCPIC | TRE | USG | STT | JPY | NND | TPX | USD | MIM | PMK | TFR | TPT   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument J000000020060201e2210002z  


 CLMHeard on the Street   HDInvestors' Puzzle: Banks and Flat Yield Curve   BYBy Clint Riley    WC1,077 words   PD30 January 2006   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGC1   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 2006, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LPFOR ALMOST A YEAR, the flat Treasury yield curve loomed on the horizon.

Bankers could see it coming. They had time to plan, knowing that the narrowing spread between short- and long-term interest rates squeezes their profits.
   TDBut the flattening yield curve has stymied even some of the most sophisticated and well-equipped banks in the U.S.

The nation's three biggest banks -- Citigroup Inc., Bank of America Corp. and J.P. Morgan Chase &Co. -- were expected by many analysts to move past the flat yield curve in 2005 and beyond without sustaining significant damage to their bottom lines.

But all three -- like many smaller brethren in the financial-services industry -- posted disappointing results for the fourth quarter, and investors punished their share prices. Each cited the flat yield curve as a contributing factor, an obstacle many bankers and bond traders see in place until at least midyear.

Now, with the Federal Reserve expected to soon end its string of short-term interest-rate increases, investors must decide whether to stick with stocks in the big banks, betting that the worst is over and that better times might be ahead.

The difference between the shorter- and longer-term rates affects not only a bank's core business of collecting deposits with a relatively low rate paid to customers and lending out that money at a higher rate. The net profit that banks, especially the bigger ones, can make from their credit-card operations and their currency, securities and other financial trading also is affected.

Banks unable to raise all the money they need to lend or conduct trades must borrow money on a short-term basis. They attempt to make more money by lending it out at a higher rate or investing it in better-yielding longer-term securities. But with the long-term and short-term interest rates about the same, that is a much less-profitable exercise.

At the close of trading Friday, two-year Treasury notes and 10-year Treasury notes yielded 4.50% and 4.52%, respectively.

In 4 p.m. composite trading Friday on the New York Stock Exchange, Citigroup's shares fell 14 cents to $46.87 each. Bank of America's stock fell 10 cents to $44.80, and J.P. Morgan closed at $39.75, up 16 cents.

Making matters worse for bankers -- especially the big banks that conduct financial trades all over the globe -- is that, at least for now, the world really is flat.

"There is a very flat yield curve globally for different reasons, even in some emerging markets," said Brad Setser, head of global research for the Roubini Global Economics Monitor, a New York-based economics Web site. "I really don't see where the easy money is. No matter how sophisticated you are, you can't get away from the basics of banking: Borrow short, lend long," he said.

Citigroup, which operates in more than 100 countries, reported this month that during 2005 its cost of acquiring funds rose 62%, or $4.2 billion, from the previous year. Driving the overall increase was an 80%, or $2.9 billion, jump in the cost of acquiring funds for trading at Citigroup's global investment bank, according to the company.

" . . . We will not have the opportunity to earn more if the yield curve stays as flat [as it is], not just in the U.S., but around the world," Citigroup's chief financial officer, Sallie Krawcheck, said when the company announced its year-end earnings earlier this month.

And speaking of the tougher, flat yield-curve environment, Bank of America Chief Financial Officer Alvaro G. de Molina said: "I wouldn't have predicted that we'd be here now."

Neither did Jeff Harte, a Chicago-based banking analyst at Sandler O'Neill who follows all three big banks. He was among the analysts who believed Citigroup, Bank of America and J.P. Morgan would use their diversity, scale and sophisticated interest-rate management to limit the financial harm a flattening yield curve can wreak on banks. Mr. Harte said he has since filed that forecast in his "things I got wrong in 2005" folder. Mr. Harte currently has "buy" ratings on Citigroup and J.P. Morgan and a "hold" recommendation on Bank of America.

Still, he and other analysts are cautiously optimistic about 2006 when it comes to the yield curve's impact on the big banks' performance. "The bulk of the damage has been done," said Mr. Harte. "The question is when does it get better?"

Net interest margins of the big banks appear to have stabilized in the fourth quarter. Of the three biggest banks, Bank of America showed the most improvement from the third to the fourth quarter, followed by Citigroup and J.P. Morgan.

But J.P. Morgan is Mr. Harte's only pick among the three big banks that might produce an "upside surprise" for investors in 2006, driven in part by its investment-banking and mortgage- and commercial-lending businesses. He doesn't personally own any of the stocks, but his firm does or plans to do investment-banking business with all three big banks.

It is deposit-gatherer Wachovia Corp., however, that remains a top 2006 pick on the lists of a significant number of bank analysts.

Wachovia "is probably doing the best to mitigate the curve by being nimble and keeping home-equity loans and mortgages on the balance sheet," said Joseph Dickerson, a banking analyst with Atlantic Equities, a London-based independent research firm. "They had the best performance vis-a-vis the curve in the quarter from both fee and net interest income in my point of view."

Wachovia also boosted the amount of commercial loans and non-interest-bearing deposits on its books from 2004 to 2005 at a faster clip than each of its larger, more global peers. Banks with a strong commercial-lending business that have access to cheaper core deposits are expected to fare better in the current interest-rate environment.

Mr. Dickerson, who maintains a $60 target price and "overweight" rating on Wachovia, doesn't own stock in any of the banks. He has "neutral" ratings on Bank of America and J.P. Morgan, and an overweight rating on Citigroup.

---

Valerie Bauerlein contributed to this article. 



License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   INi814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSc1521 : Analyst Comment/Recommendation | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e1202 : Interest Rates | gpersf : Personal Finance | gvtre : Treasury Department | m11 : Equity Markets | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | nedc : Commentary/Opinion | c15 : Performance | c152 : Earnings Projections | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | glife : Living/Lifestyle | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | gvexe : Executive Branch | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | reqrbc : Editor's Choice - Banking/Credit | reqr : Editor's Choice - Industry Trends/Analysis   REusa : United States | usnc : North Carolina | usny : New York | namz : North America | use : Northeast U.S. | uss : Southern U.S.   IPCBKG | CMR | DJCB | EWR | PIC | TRE | USG | FIN | NND | HST | MIM | TFR   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument J000000020060130e21u0001b  


 HDBanks Dangle High Teaser Rates --- As the Fed Hints of an End to Increases, Institutions Offer Up to 4.8% on Savings Accounts   BYBy Jane J. Kim    WC1,317 words   PD1 February 2006   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGD1   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 2006, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LPWITH THE Federal Reserve expected soon to end its string of interest-rate increases, banks are aggressively courting new deposits with introductory rates that could be among the highest that consumers will see for some time.

Many of the banks' new teaser rates are being offered by online banks, which are able to offer higher rates because they don't have the fixed expenses of maintaining networks of branches. ING Direct, owned by ING Groep NV, is offering 4.75% on new deposits for its savings accounts until April 15, up from 3.8%.
   TDTraditional brick-and-mortar banks also are introducing special deals. For customers who bring in new deposits and open up a checking account, Citigroup Inc.'s Citibank is promoting a 4.25% rate on a six-month certificate of deposit, exceeding even the bank's long-term rates on one-year and three-year CDs. And M&T Bank Corp. of Buffalo, N.Y., last month launched a three-month promotional rate of 4% for customers who open a money-market account with at least $10,000.

The Federal Reserve raised short-term rates for the 14th straight time yesterday, bringing the federal-funds rate to 4.5%. But the Fed also gave its strongest hint yet that the end of rate increases is in sight, and analysts say this likely means short-term market rates are at or near a plateau. In a statement accompanying its decision, the Fed said further rate hikes "may be needed." Previously when the Fed boosted interest rates it has said further increases are "likely to be needed," and the change in wording signaled that another rate increase, while on the table, is not assured.

Tantalizing rate offers have long been one of the most reliable asset-gathering mechanisms for financial institutions and some banks are now raising their rates to combat a slowdown in deposit growth. Bank deposits at federally insured institutions grew 7.8% on an annualized basis to $6.06 trillion through the third quarter of last year, compared with 10.6% growth for all of 2004, according to SNL Financial. In the current year, deposit growth is expected to slow to a mid-single-digit pace, analysts say.

The reasons: A slowdown in the nation's housing markets has left consumers with less cash than they previously had available through mortgage refinancings and home-equity loans. What's more, higher-yielding alternatives such as money-market mutual funds, which aren't federally insured, are taking a bigger share of consumers' cash. Two of these funds, Fidelity Cash Reserves and Vanguard's Prime Money Market, have yields that recently surpassed 4%, catching up with top-yielding savings accounts.

While the heightened competition is creating attractive short-term deals, consumers need to pay close attention to what rate they end up with, and what kind of account their money goes to, after the promotional period ends. Some promotions have low or no minimum deposits. But when the introductory period ends, the size of the balance can have a dramatic effect on the new yield. This is the case at E*Trade Financial Corp., for example, where new customers who open a money-market account earn 4.1% for 90 days. After that time, if rates remain at today's levels, a customer with more than $50,000 in the account would see that rate drop to 3.4%, while someone with a smaller balance might get just 2.6%.

Banking online has limitations for many consumers. Check deposits typically need to be sent in by mail. Also, online banks mostly don't offer checking accounts, so customers need to maintain a separate checking account in a traditional bank. What's more, withdrawing cash through an automated-teller machine can result in service charges. Many customers also relish the feeling of security that having a neighborhood branch provides.

Still, heavy promotions and higher rates by Internet banks, including ING Direct and EmigrantDirect.com, a unit of New York's Emigrant Savings Bank, have been putting pressure on traditional banks to raise their own rates by creating for consumers the "appearance" of a high-rate environment, says Dave Kaytes, managing director of Novantas LLC, a management-consulting company. HSBCDirect, an online operation of HSBC Holdings PLC, this week rolled out a promotional rate paying 4.8% on its savings accounts until April 30, after which the yield drops to the regular rate, currently 4.25%. Mr. Kaytes expects more banks this year will begin offering introductory rates that are roughly 1% to 2% above market rates.

Restrictions abound on the recent offers. At some banks, the promotional rate may only be offered on amounts above a certain threshold. The promotional rate of 5% on the Money Market Maximizer offered by AmboyDirect, the online division of Amboy National Bank of Old Bridge, N.J., is only paid on balances between $30,000 and $100,000 for three months. Balances between $5,000 and $29,999 earn 1.01%, while balances below $5,000 earn no interest.

The fine print behind some promotional rates may require that consumers bring over a sizable amount of cash or open up other accounts at the bank in order to qualify for the teaser rate, or to maintain a higher rate once the promotional period ends. Citibank is currently offering a money-market account paying 3.8% for consumers who have at least $50,000 in assets or loans throughout the bank. Customers at National City Corp., which is offering 4.5% on its money-market account for 180 days, will need to open up a checking account and bring at least $35,000 in total balances in order to qualify for the bank's "relationship" money-market account, which pays higher rates than its standard money-market account, once the introductory period expires.

To be sure, watchful consumers can always move their cash into better-paying accounts once the introductory period expires, since many of the promotional rates are being offered on accounts that are liquid, or easily moved. And some investors may want to invest in shorter-term CDs so they don't lose out on higher rates that may become available if the Fed boosts the target short-term rate at its next meeting, in March. However, "banks are banking on the customer opening up the account and forgetting that it will expire," says Randy Rosen, manager of deposit research for Informa Research Services Inc.

Since the Fed began raising rates in 2004, interest-bearing instruments have correspondingly moved higher. The average rates on six-month and one-year CDs, for example, have climbed to 2.86% and 3.34%, respectively, from 1.08% and 1.51% in June 2004, according to Bankrate.com.

Investors can also turn to their local community banks, which are rolling out promotions geared toward new money. In December, Old Second Bancorp Inc. in Aurora, Ill., introduced a six-month CD that pays 4.58% for customers bringing new deposits of at least $5,000, with a guaranteed renewal rate of 5.09%. North Community Bank of Chicago has been offering one-year CDs paying 4.5% for new deposits of at least $5,000. If you open up a checking account with direct deposit, the rate increases to 4.75%.

--- 


                            Savings Bait 
 
  Many banks are offering introductory rates on savings accounts, but there 
are often strings attached. 
 
  Many promotional rates are only paid on new deposits. 
 
  Some banks may require a large minimum balance. 
 
  Consumers need to watch the rate they get after the introductory period 
ends. In some cases, rates may drop sharply, especially with small balances. 
    



License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   COnn : ING Groep NV   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | i82 : Insurance | i82002 : Life Insurance | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSc31 : Marketing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | gvexe : Executive Branch | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | c311 : Domestic Markets | reqrbc : Editor's Choice - Banking/Credit | m131 : Money Markets | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | reqr : Editor's Choice - Industry Trends/Analysis   REchina : China | hkong : Hong Kong | neth : Netherlands | uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | usil : Illinois | usny : New York | usoh : Ohio | asiaz : Asia | benluxz : Benelux Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | usc : Midwest U.S. | use : Northeast U.S. | weurz : Western Europe   IPCBKG | CMR | DJCB | EWR | PIC | FED | USG | FIN | NND | PSJ | TPT   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument J000000020060201e2210003i  


 CLMMonday's Markets   HDWhat's the New Guy Got? --- Stocks Are Flat as Edgy Investors Wait for Bernanke's First Pitch; Talk of a Parting Greenspan Gift   BYBy E.S. Browning    WC922 words   PD31 January 2006   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGC1   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 2006, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LPSTOCKS CHURNED UP and down but finished little changed as investors awaited one of the highest profile Federal Reserve policy meetings in years.

Wall Street is looking on nervously as long-serving Chairman Alan Greenspan presides over his last interest-rate meeting today, before turning over the Fed's reins to former Princeton professor Ben Bernanke tomorrow. Talk, meanwhile, is circulating that the Fed could signal even more strongly today that it will stop raising interest rates soon, which Wall Street would welcome with a sigh of relief. With the outlook so uncertain, investors were reluctant to make big moves.
   TDThe Dow Jones Industrial Average, which had surged within sight of the 11000 mark last week, edged down 7.29 points, or 0.07%, to 10899.92, still up 1.7% this year. The broader Standard &Poor's 500-stock index rose 0.12%, or 1.48 points, to 1285.20, up 3% in 2006.

Reflecting the nail-biting, there were rumors Mr. Greenspan might leave the market a little "going-away present," by leaving interest rates unchanged for the first time since the Fed started raising them 19 months ago, said Mike Viracola, head of trading at Boston brokerage firm Adams Harkness.

But "most people think there will be a little more tightening," or rate increasing, at today's meeting, Mr. Viracola said. "The uncertainty is still there, so people are still waiting a little bit" before putting money to work, he said.

Much as investors admire Mr. Bernanke's credentials as a Princeton economics professor and Bush-administration adviser, he is untested as Fed leader. Investors greeted Mr. Greenspan's arrival 18 years ago with similar nervousness, and they recall today that the market crashed in 1987 within months of Mr. Greenspan's swearing in. It probably will take some months before people adjust to a new hand on the Fed's helm.

The Fed has raised its key short-term interest rate -- the target rate for overnight lending among banks -- at 13 consecutive policy meetings since June 2004, moving it to 4.25% from a 46-year low of 1%. Despite the talk of a Greenspan parting gift, most investors expect the Fed to push its guideline rate up another quarter point today, with banks adjusting consumer and business lending rates higher in response.

One question is whether Mr. Bernanke will feel the need to demonstrate that he is an inflation fighter by pushing the target rate up by another quarter point when the Fed next meets, on March 28. Investors will watch the Fed's postmeeting commentary today, released at about 2:15 p.m. EST, for hints about that. If references to raising rates at a "measured pace" are removed from the statement, that will be seen as a sign that Fed officials are considering a halt in rate increases. But since Mr. Bernanke won't yet be in charge, investors still will feel uncertain about how he'll proceed.

Probably the biggest factor governing interest rates' future is the inflation rate. Recent readings have shown measures of underlying inflation running at just below 2% a year, which is at the top end of what many Fed officials are said to consider acceptable. The question is whether they will decide that it is safe now to stop raising rates, or will instead try to push inflation lower with more rate increases.

With an unusually long period of almost two months before the next Fed meeting, investors will have time to try to gauge Mr. Bernanke's intentions. Mr. Bernanke is scheduled to testify before Congress on Feb. 15, one of the Fed chief's mandated twice-yearly appearances before lawmakers.

Although the market didn't reflect it, yesterday's economic and corporate news was relatively upbeat. Government data showed consumer spending up more than expected in December, while inflation measures based on the consumer data, thought to be closely watched by the Fed, were almost flat for the month.

Exxon Mobil Corp. offered a strong quarterly profit report. Saudi Arabia's oil minister said oil-exporting countries have agreed that they won't cut oil output.

However, the news on the commodity front wasn't good. Crude-oil futures remained high, moving up 59 cents to $68.35 a barrel in New York, which equaled a recent five-month high, ahead of today's Vienna meeting of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries.

Gold futures, to which investors turn in times of worry, jumped $7 to $565.80 an ounce in New York, yet another 25-year high.

Reflecting continued bond-market concern about the direction of interest rates, the yield of the 10-year Treasury note edged up to 4.533%, its highest New York finish in more than a month.

The Nasdaq Composite Index inched up 0.11%, or 2.55 points, to 2306.78, up 4.6% this year.

In major U.S. market action:

Stocks were mixed; bonds fell. The 10-year Treasury note fell 5/32, or $1.56 for each $1,000 invested. The 30-year bond was down 5/32 to yield 4.704%.

The dollar strengthened. It traded at 117.62 yen, up from 117.27 yen; the euro fell on the dollar to $1.2085 from $1.2102. 



License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | gpersf : Personal Finance | gvtre : Treasury Department | m11 : Equity Markets | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m131 : Money Markets | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mntdbt : National Government Debt/Bond Markets | nsum : News Digest | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | glife : Living/Lifestyle | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | gvexe : Executive Branch | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | niwe : IWE Filter   REjap : Japan | usa : United States | asiaz : Asia | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America   IPCPIC | TRE | USG | STT | JPY | NND | TPX | USD | MIM | PMK | TFR | TPT   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument J000000020060131e21v0003p  


 CLMCurrency Trading   HDData, Central Banks to Guide Dollar   BYBy Steven Vames Dow Jones Newswires    WC547 words   PD30 January 2006   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGC4   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 2006, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LPThe currency market will get a little of everything this week, with central-bank meetings, a heavy flow of economic data and official words on global political risks.

Still, whether the dollar can garner any clear direction in the near term remains to be seen. The dollar's rise last week after a fairly soft beginning to 2006 is a signal to some that the currency isn't necessarily ready to drop, as many have predicted it will at some point this year. But there also is a lot of doubt that it could break higher in the near term.
   TD"There's frustration that there's been so little followthrough when the market attempts to push the euro higher," said Michael Cairns, head of trading at FX Solutions in Ridgewood, N.J. "The market seems to be of the view that the [Federal Reserve] is nearly done, and that the economy is slowing, but there hasn't been enough proof of either to start bringing the dollar lower."

The bulk of the dollar's modest rise last week came Friday, after markets learned that U.S. gross domestic product grew at a disappointingly weak 1.1% annualized pace in the fourth quarter of 2005. Strength reported later Friday in December new-home sales helped to trigger a turn higher for the dollar.

The reason GDP didn't matter much, said many strategists, is that the economy is widely expected to snap back in the first quarter, making it unlikely that the fourth-quarter performance will significantly affect Fed monetary policy.

The Fed is expected to raise its benchmark short-term interest rate by a quarter percentage point to 4.5% this week, but markets are more interested in any clues about further movements.

Part of the weakness seen in the dollar recently has been due to a belief that the Fed is almost done raising rates, which if clearly signaled by the central bank, could make the dollar less attractive. But many analysts believe the Fed will leave the door open for further moves, since economic data haven't shown any lasting slowdown in the economy.

Against the euro in particular, the dollar's fortunes this week also could be affected by a meeting Thursday of European Central Bank policy makers. Though the ECB is expected to leave rates unchanged after raising rates once in December, the tone of the ECB's statement and the degree to which it affects expectations for further rate moves could make or break the euro's short-term prospects.

Though a full slate of U.S. economic data is set for release this week, markets are likely to stay focused on Friday's report on payrolls for January. The consensus estimate looks for the creation of 232,000 jobs in January and a steady unemployment rate of 4.9%, which would likely keep expectations for Fed rate increases aloft.

"Such a strong report would likely be dollar-friendly and reinforce ideas that the economy is growing sufficiently robust . . . and would seem to underscore the likelihood of additional Fed tightening," said Marc Chandler, chief currency strategist at Brown Brothers Harriman. 

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ecat : Economic News | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCNND | TPX | USD | FEX | MIM   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument J000000020060130e21u0001h  



 HDThe Greenspan Story: Goodbye, Mr. Big Chips   BYBy Robert J. Barro    WC1,334 words   PD30 January 2006   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGA18   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 2006, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LPTomorrow is Alan Greenspan's last day at the Federal Reserve. To appreciate his monetary policy, one has to go back to the watershed event in 1980-81, when then Fed Chairman Paul Volcker faced an inflation rate above 10%. Mr. Volcker, supported in 1981-82 by President Ronald Reagan, committed to contractionary monetary policy as the way to reduce inflation. Unlike the mid-1970s, the Fed raised interest rates much more than the increase in inflation -- the Federal Funds rate reached 20% in 1981. This policy proved remarkably successful, and inflation receded to 3% by 1983. Most importantly, by sticking to high interest rates despite the 1982 recession, the Fed established a reputation for raising rates sharply when inflation threatened and lowering rates only when inflation was tame.
   TDWhen Mr. Greenspan took over in August 1987, his main mission was to sustain the Fed's credibility. The success is clear, even at the challenging times of the 1987 stock-market crash and the Asian/Russian/Long-Term-Capital-Management financial crises of 1997-98. During the Greenspan era, the Fed adjusted the Funds rate in a nearly rule-like manner to achieve a low and stable inflation rate. Broad inflation above an implicit target range, now around 2%-3%, triggered increases in rates, and vice versa. This policy led to the tranquil inflation environment since 1987.

Aside from responding to inflation, the Greenspan Fed raised interest rates when the economy was strong and lowered rates when the economy was weak. These reactions were to the labor market, not real GDP. For example, the Funds rate rose from 3% in late 1993 to 6% in mid-1995 in response to strong employment growth and a falling unemployment rate. In the opposite direction, the weak labor market in the 2001-02 recession induced the Fed to lower the Funds rate from 6.5% in late 2000 to 1% in mid-2003. The benefits from this part of Fed policy are unclear -- we do not know whether the economy performs better because the Fed adjusts interest rates in response to strength or weakness in the labor market.

---

The general view, which I share, is that the achievement of low and stable inflation has enhanced real economic performance. Support for this proposition comes from broad international experience, which reveals that higher inflation retards economic growth. However, the data also show that inflation stability is less important for growth than many other factors, including strong property rights and rule of law, free markets, and efficient systems of schooling and health. Moreover, sound monetary policy does not guarantee high growth -- witness the low inflation and anemic growth in Switzerland from the 1970s through the 1990s.

The Volcker Fed was an innovator in monetary policy in the early 1980s, but many other central banks have since become more sophisticated. Beginning with New Zealand in 1989, several countries designed and implemented formal rules for inflation targeting. Early adopters were Canada, the U.K., Australia and Sweden, and the total is now around 20. The key feature of these systems is a transparent monetary policy that focuses on keeping inflation within a pre-announced range. Despite widespread success, a few major central banks remain as holdouts: the Greenspan Fed, the European Central Bank (which has an implicit inflation target), and the Bank of Japan (which may move to inflation targeting in its post-deflation environment).

U.S. monetary policy has become less secretive since the 1980s, though Mr. Greenspan usually seemed to be a reluctant supporter of transparency. Even now, policy remains somewhat opaque and heavily dependent on the judgment of the Fed chair. To be fair, the Fed's policy worked very well since 1987, and Mr. Greenspan's sound decisions deserve credit. However, the likely reason for the good results is that the interest-rate changes usually approximated those implied by a version of the "Taylor Rule," which dictates reactions of interest rates to inflation and real economic activity. The appointment of a new chairman, Ben Bernanke, is a good time to consider a more formalized structure, especially since credibility will be an issue when the chairman is not an icon. However, the Bernanke Fed will likely move gradually toward a more transparent and formal system.

We will learn something about future Fed policy from Mr. Greenspan's last FOMC meeting, on Tuesday, and Mr. Bernanke's first meeting, in late March. Three approaches provide similar guidance about the likely near-term course of the Federal Funds rate. First, the Chicago Board of Trade futures market predicts one-quarter-point rate increases at the next two meetings, then a flattening at 4.75%. Second, a model that I constructed predicts a near-term rise to 4.5% or 4.75%, followed by declines in 2007. Finally, we can infer bond-market expectations from the nearly flat yield curve, with five- and 10-year rates around 4.5%. The bond market apparently anticipates a Funds rate peak at not much above 4.5%, followed by declines to below 4% (along with restoration of the normal upward-sloping yield curve). Note that the model-based approach takes no account of the shift from Mr. Greenspan to Mr. Bernanke, whereas the two market-based analyses factor in this shift. Therefore, the similar projections -- with all three approaches signaling the end of rising interest rates -- indicate that markets anticipate a smooth transition to Mr. Bernanke.

What can we learn from the strong performances of Messrs. Volcker and Greenspan about the characteristics of a successful policy maker? Neither chairman is a great economist from the standpoint of research contributions or mastery of economic theory. (Despite Mr. Greenspan's strengths, there is something akin to Peter Sellers's Chance the Gardener in the exaggerated popular view of his economic prowess.) Fortunately, setting interest rates to ensure low and stable inflation does not require much economic sophistication. More important qualities are abilities to commit to sound policy and to inspire mystical confidence by financial markets, particularly in crises. Messrs. Volcker and Greenspan get high marks here, and their lack of research credentials mattered little.

Many great economists have been mediocre or worse as policy makers or government advisers. The most prominent economist to serve as Fed Chairman was Arthur Burns, famous for empirical studies at the National Bureau of Economic Research. He proved to be a disaster when he went over to the dark side to back President Richard Nixon's outrageous price controls in 1971. (Nixon's self-description, "Now I am a Keynesian in economics," says a lot about Nixon and Keynesian economics.)

A different picture comes from Mervyn King, now Governor of the Bank of England, who was a prominent public-finance economist before leading the bank as chief economist to a transparent regime with inflation targeting. However, although highly successful, the Bank of England's monetary policy has not been obviously better than those of other inflation-targeting central banks, which were not led by major economists. At the pioneering Reserve Bank of New Zealand, the key figure was Don Brash, as much a politician as an economist. Mr. Bernanke resembles Mervyn King more than the other central bankers I have mentioned, combining policy skills with strong academic credentials. Despite my stress on policy skills over research ability, his important studies of inflation targeting may facilitate the coming changes at the Fed.

Although one can quarrel about the rankings of policy makers, there is no doubt that Alan Greenspan has done a great job in managing U.S. monetary policy for more than 18 years. So, the best way for me to conclude is to say: Thank you, Mr. Greenspan.

---

Mr. Barro is the Paul M. Warburg professor of economics at Harvard and a senior fellow at Stanford's Hoover Institution. This is the first in a short series on Mr. Greenspan this week. 

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | ecat : Economic News | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvexe : Executive Branch | nedc : Commentary/Opinion | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gvbod : Government Bodies | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCFED | USG | NND | EDP   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument J000000020060130e21u0001v  



 HDTest Your Knowledge of the  Federal Reserve    BYBy The Associated Press     WC1,016 words   PD30 January 2006   ET17:44   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.  
   LPHow much Federal Reserve trivia do you know?  

1. What year did Congress establish the Federal Reserve?  
   TDA: 1935  

B: 1860  

C: 1913  

(Correct answer is C)  

Congress passed the Federal Reserve Act in 1913, which created the Federal Reserve -- the central bank of the United States. The legislation was signed into law by President Wilson on Dec. 23, 1913.  

The law was set up to give the country a safer and more stable financial system. During the 19th century and the beginning of the 20th century, financial panics plagued the United States, leading to bank failures and business bankruptcies that disrupted the overall economy. An especially bad crisis erupted in 1907 -- prompting Congress to create a commission to come up with proposals to prevent or help limit fallout from such financial upheavals in the future.  

2. Which chairman was the longest serving at the Federal Reserve?  

A: Alan Greenspan  

B: William McChesney Martin  

C: Paul Volcker  

(Correct answer is B)  

William McChesney Martin was appointed by President Truman and served nearly 19 years at the helm -- from April 2, 1951, to Jan. 31, 1970. Martin -- who worked under five presidents -- is regarded as the creator of the modern Fed who worked hard to make sure the central bank made decisions based on economic considerations rather than political pressure.  

"Our purpose is to lean against the winds of deflation or inflation, whichever way they are blowing," he said at his 1956 nomination hearing in the Senate. To figure out which way the wind is really blowing, the Fed must be free from political pressure.  

Martin also famously said it was the job of the central bank "to take away the punch bowl just when the party gets going."  

3. Which first lady wrote a glowing review of the Federal Reserve's headquarters building?  

A: Hillary Clinton  

B: Nancy Reagan  

C: Eleanor Roosevelt  

(Correct answer is C)  

Eleanor Roosevelt wrote: "I think the building exterior is very beautiful and have admired it often, but I was equally impressed by the interior ... I gathered they had, perhaps, been criticized for thinking too much about beauty and too little about utility. Surely, this country had learned that we must meet both needs in public buildings ...."  

4. Which Fed chairman once dressed up as the Jolly Green Giant to attend a Washington costume party?  

A: Alan Greenspan  

B: Paul Volcker  

C: Arthur Burns  

(Correct answer is B)  

Volcker. The costume selection was influenced by the fact that Volcker stood six feet, seven inches tall. In high school, Volcker played varsity basketball. He also played at Princeton University, where he graduated in 1949 summa cum laude with a bachelor's degree in economics. He earned a master's degree at Harvard. Although he spent a year at the London School of Economics, he never completed his dissertation.  

5. What does the Federal Reserve do?  

A: Raises or cut taxes  

B: Decides spending for federal agencies  

C: Raises or lowers interest rates  

(Correct answer is C)  

The Federal Reserve adjusts interest rates in an effort to influence overall economic activity. In general, it will be inclined to raise its key rate, the federal funds rate, to slow the economy and fend off inflation. It will lower the funds rate to combat economic weakness.  

Changes to the federal funds rate -- the interest banks charge each other on overnight loans -- influences a range of other interest rates charged to consumers and businesses.  

If borrowing costs go up, consumers and businesses are less inclined to spend and invest and thus slow the economy and lessen inflation pressures. If borrowing costs go down, people and businesses may be more inclined to spend and invest, thus boosting overall economic activity.  

6. How many regional banks does the Federal Reserve have?  

A: 50  

B: 12  

C: 25  

(Correct answer is B)  

The network of 12 regional Fed banks are the operating arms of the central banking system. The banks carry out a variety of duties, including operating a nationwide system for payments, distributing the country's paper money and coins, and supervising and regulating member banks. Each regional bank is responsible for a particular geographic area.  

The 12 banks are in Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, Minneapolis, Kansas City, Dallas and San Francisco.  

7. How many presidents has Fed chief Alan Greenspan served under?  

A: 4  

B: 3  

C: 5  

(Correct answer is A)  

Greenspan, a Republican, was first chosen by President Reagan. He was renominated by Presidents George H.W. Bush, Clinton and George W. Bush. Clinton is a Democrat, the other presidents Republicans.  

8. Which Fed chairman ratcheted up rates to levels not seen since the Civil War?  

A: Alan Greenspan  

B: Paul Volcker  

C: G. William Miller  

(Correct answer is B)  

Volcker pushed interest rates to the highest levels since the Civil War in what turned out to be a successful campaign to end a decade-long bout of high inflation. Greenspan and other economists believe that Volcker's success in fighting inflation laid the foundation for a more stable price climate well after his departure.  

9. Which Fed regional bank president always has a vote when the Fed meets to decide the course of interest rates?  

A: The president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia  

B: The president of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco  

C: The president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York  

(Correct answer is C)  

The Fed's board of governors (including the Fed chairman) and five of the Fed's 12 regional bank presidents are voting members of the Federal Open Market Committee, the group that sets interest rate policy in the United States. Each year, there's a rotation of four of the five voting Fed presidents. The president of the New York Fed is always a voting member.  

The New York Fed president, currently Tim Geithner, carries out the FOMC's interest rate decisions by buying or selling Treasury securities and thus is always a voting member.  
   RF7   INi814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | gvexe : Executive Branch | gvote1 : National/Presidential Elections | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | gvote : Elections   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagpf1apon | sel----- | catf | 1310   IPDFinancial/Business | Fed Trivia Quiz | D8FF44N80   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020060130e21u001gu  



 HDGreenspan readies finale as central bank's conductor     BYBy JEANNINE AVERSA     CRAP Economics Writer   WC861 words   PD30 January 2006   ET08:08   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.  
   LPWASHINGTON (AP) - Alan Greenspan, widely viewed as the U.S. economy's maestro, is preparing to turn over his conductor's baton to successor, Ben Bernanke.  

Greenspan, 79 and the second-longest serving chairman of the Federal Reserve, will preside over his last interest-rate meeting Tuesday as he retires after 18 1/2 years as head of the U.S. central bank.  
   TDWaiting in the wings to take the baton is Bernanke, 52, chosen by President George W. Bush to run the Fed.  

Bernanke is a respected economist who spent 17 years teaching at Princeton University before becoming a governor at the Federal Reserve and then chairman of the White House's Council of Economic Advisers.  

The Senate is expected to approve Bernanke's nomination Tuesday. His swearing in as the 14th chairman of the Federal Reserve, created by Congress in 1913, probably will come Wednesday.  

Greenspan's last major piece of business Tuesday will be guiding his colleagues to a decision on interest rates. Economists predict the Fed will boost interest rates by one-quarter percentage point to 4.50 percent to thwart inflation.  

If the ritual of past meetings holds, Greenspan will sink into his chairman's chair -- the top of which has a little brass plaque that carries his name. He and his colleagues will discuss interest rate policy gathered around a 27-foot ( 8-meter)-long mahogany table that sits beneath a 1,000-pound (450-kilogram), brass-and-glass chandelier festooned with dignified eagles.  

Greenspan's agile handling of the economy has earned him monikers, including the maestro, the greatest central banker who ever lived and the second-most important person in Washington.  

On Greenspan's watch, the economy -- from March 1991 to March 2001 -- posted its longest continuous expansion in history. The two recessions during his tenure were mild.  

He confronted crises including a stock market crash in 1987 -- just two months into his job; financial upheavals in some parts of the world in the late 1990s; the bursting of the stock market bubble in 2000 that wiped out trillions of dollars in investor wealth; and the Sept. 11, 2001, terror attacks.  

In addition, Greenspan maintained the Fed's political independence in making interest-rate decisions and defended its regulatory turf, said Kevin Hassett, a former Fed economist who directs economic policy studies at the American Enterprise Institute.  

Bernanke will want to show early on that he's the new alpha dog on the block, Hassett said. The message he needs to convey is akin to saying: "Here I am. I'm the new alpha. Don't-mess-with-me kind of speech," Hassett said.  

One of Bernanke's first challenges as Fed chief will be deciding when to end the central bank's nearly 2-year-old rate-raising campaign, economists said.  

The stakes are high. If he stops too early, inflation could become a problem, it he stops too late, the economy could be hurt. The first interest-rate meeting Bernanke will preside over will be on March 28.  

Clues on Bernanke's thoughts about the future course of interest rates could come on Feb. 15 when he delivers the Fed's twice-a-year report on the economy to Congress.  

Bernanke takes over as the economy faces some potential challenges.  

Questions persist whether the housing market will continue to gradually decline and avoid a crash; and whether foreigners will maintain a hardy appetite for investing in the United States and continue to finance ballooning budget and trade deficits.  

Energy prices pose another wild card for the economy -- and for inflation.  

Bernanke has the academic credentials for the Fed job, although he never worked on Wall Street and has limited political experience.  

He will need to build support among his Fed colleagues -- not only on interest rate policies but on other matters that the bank may confront down the road.  

Dissent on interest-rate votes was a rarity at the Fed under Greenspan. Former Fed governor Lawrence Lindsey said it would be "cataclysmic" to Wall Street investors if there were a flurry of dissenting votes under Bernanke. That would create confusion with investors and would probably roil the markets. But Lindsey doubts this would happen under Bernanke.  

Earning credibility early on with Wall Street will be another test for Bernanke as well as crafting a uniform message about the Fed's outlook on interest rates and the economy to investors, the public and politicians, economists said.  

The Fed chief oversees interest rate policy in the United States, which affects investors large and small. He also is responsible for regulating the nation's banking system to ensure its safety and soundness and is in charge of maintaining the stability of the country's financial markets.  

As Bernanke takes center stage, Greenspan will move out of the main spotlight -- but he'll still be keeping tabs on economic conditions. He plans to open his own economic consulting business and also may appear on the speaking circuit and write a book.  

------  

On the Net:  

Federal Reserve:  http://www.federalreserve.gov 
   RF7   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPCtagpf1wcat | sel----- | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | NA FIN US Fed Changing the Guard | D8FERMT80   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020060130e21u0012y  



 HDGreenspan Readies for Central Bank Finale     BYBy JEANNINE AVERSA     CRAP Economics Writer   WC858 words   PD30 January 2006   ET12:08   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.  
   LPWASHINGTON (AP) - Alan Greenspan, widely viewed as the U.S. economy's maestro, is preparing to turn over his conductor's baton to successor, Ben Bernanke.  

Greenspan, 79 and the second-longest serving chairman of the Federal Reserve, will preside over his last interest-rate meeting Tuesday as he retires after 18 1/2 years as head of the central bank.  
   TDWaiting in the wings to take the baton is Bernanke, 52, chosen by President Bush to run the Fed.  

Bernanke is a respected economist who spent 17 years teaching at Princeton University before becoming a governor at the Federal Reserve and then chairman of the White House's Council of Economic Advisers.  

The Senate is expected to approve Bernanke's nomination Tuesday. His swearing in as the 14th chairman of the Federal Reserve, created by Congress in 1913, probably will come Wednesday.  

Greenspan's last major piece of business Tuesday will be guiding his colleagues to a decision on interest rates. Economists predict the Fed will boost interest rates by one-quarter percentage point to 4.50 percent to thwart inflation.  

If the ritual of past meetings holds, Greenspan will sink into his chairman's chair -- the top of which has a little brass plaque that carries his name. He and his colleagues will discuss interest rate policy gathered around a 27-foot-long mahogany table that sits beneath a 1,000-pound, brass-and-glass chandelier festooned with dignified eagles.  

Greenspan's agile handling of the economy has earned him monikers, including the maestro, the greatest central banker who ever lived and the second-most important person in Washington.  

On Greenspan's watch, the economy -- from March 1991 to March 2001 -- posted its longest continuous expansion in history. The two recessions during his tenure were mild.  

He confronted crises including a stock market crash in 1987 -- just two months into his job; financial upheavals in some parts of the world in the late 1990s; the bursting of the stock market bubble in 2000 that wiped out trillions of dollars in investor wealth; and the Sept. 11, 2001, terror attacks.  

In addition, Greenspan was a dominant "alpha dog" who maintained the Fed's political independence in making interest-rate decisions and defended its regulatory turf, said Kevin Hassett, a former Fed economist who directs economic policy studies at the American Enterprise Institute.  

Bernanke will want to show early on that he's the new alpha dog on the block, Hassett said. The message he needs to convey is akin to saying: "Here I am. I'm the new alpha. Don't-mess-with-me kind of speech," Hassett said.  

One of Bernanke's first challenges as Fed chief will be deciding when to end the central bank's nearly 2-year-old rate-raising campaign, economists said.  

The stakes are high. If he stops too early, inflation could become a problem, it he stops too late, the economy could be hurt. The first interest-rate meeting Bernanke will preside over will be on March 28.  

Clues on Bernanke's thoughts about the future course of interest rates could come on Feb. 15 when he delivers the Fed's twice-a-year report on the economy to Congress.  

Bernanke takes over as the economy faces some potential challenges.  

Questions persist whether the housing market will continue to gradually decline and avoid a crash; and whether foreigners will maintain a hardy appetite for investing in the United States and continue to finance ballooning budget and trade deficits.  

Energy prices pose another wild card for the economy -- and for inflation.  

Bernanke has the academic credentials for the Fed job, although he never worked on Wall Street and has limited political experience.  

He will need to build support among his Fed colleagues -- not only on interest rate policies but on other matters that the bank may confront down the road.  

Dissent on interest-rate votes was a rarity at the Fed under Greenspan. Former Fed governor Lawrence Lindsey said it would be "cataclysmic" to Wall Street investors if there were a flurry of dissenting votes under Bernanke. That would create confusion with investors and would probably roil the markets. But Lindsey doubts this would happen under Bernanke.  

Earning credibility early on with Wall Street will be another test for Bernanke as well as crafting a uniform message about the Fed's outlook on interest rates and the economy to investors, the public and politicians, economists said.  

The Fed chief oversees interest rate policy in the United States, which affects investors large and small. He also is responsible for regulating the nation's banking system to ensure its safety and soundness and is in charge of maintaining the stability of the country's financial markets.  

As Bernanke takes center stage, Greenspan will move out of the main spotlight -- but he'll still be keeping tabs on economic conditions. He plans to open his own economic consulting business also may appear on the speaking circuit and write a book.  

------  

On the Net:  

Federal Reserve:  http://www.federalreserve.gov 
   RF7   ARTimage | WX10201291706     NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagpf1apon | sel----- | catf | 1310   IPDFinancial/Business | Fed Changing the Guard | D8FEV7AG0   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020060130e21u00164  



 SEFT MARKETS   HDGreenspan era ends in subdued fashion GLOBAL OVERVIEW.   BYBy TONY TASSELL    WC426 words   PD1 February 2006   SNFinancial Times   SCFTFT   EDLondon Ed1   PGPage 46   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPThe end of the Greenspan era at the US Federal Reserve was marked yesterday by a subdued reaction to the tone of the central bank's latest statement on interest rate policy.

There were no big surprises for investors to emerge from the last meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee to be overseen by chairman Alan Greenspan after 18 years at the helm of the bank.
   TDAs Ben Bernanke prepared to take over as Fed chairman today, the central bank raised its benchmark Fed funds interest rate by25 basis points to 4.5 per cent. In the announcement of the rate rise, the Fed also dropped its long-standing reference to the likelihood of further "measured" rate increases.

But shares on Wall Street eased a little after the announcement on the Fed's statement that "some further policy firming may be needed to keep the risks to the attainment of both sustainable economic growth and price stability roughly in balance".

"Core inflation has stayed relatively low in recent months and longer-term inflation expectations remain contained." Some share investors appeared to have hoped for a more dovish statement with a clearer signal that rate rises were coming to an end.

By midday, the Dow Jones Industrial Average was0.15 per cent lower, the S&P 500 was 0.43 per cent weaker and the Nasdaq Composite was 0.31 per cent down. US treasuries were largely unchanged while the dollar pared early losses.

Ian Shepherdson, chief US economist at High Frequency Economics, said Mr Greenspan "did not leave behind an entirely blank canvas for Mr Bernanke".

"The Fed's bias remains on the upside, given 'solid' but 'uneven' data. This is realistic; we think strong data will leave Mr Bernanke with no choice on March 28 (to raise rates at the FOMC's next meeting)," he said.

Mr Shepherdson said the "best bet" was still that the Fed would raise rates by 25 basis points at the March meeting and there was a "real risk of more".

The transition overshadowed news of a rise in US consumer confidence to the highest levels in three years in January and weaker-than-expected manufacturing activity around Chicago.

In Europe, the FTSE Eurofirst 300 index rose just 0.05 per cent to 1,319.57 in cautious trade. Credit Suisse warned yesterday that financial markets might be too complacent with its measures of risk appetite hitting a 20-year high last Friday. 
   RF20060201L146.122   INi814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | m11 : Equity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTFT000020060201e2210005q  



 HD Federal Reserve  is expected to raise borrowing costs again Tuesday     BYBy JEANNINE AVERSA     CRAP Economics Writer   WC807 words   PD30 January 2006   ET20:17   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.  
   LPWASHINGTON (AP) - Alan Greenspan, the U.S. economy's guardian for 18 1/2 years, and his colleagues are poised to raise borrowing costs yet again at his final Federal Reserve meeting Tuesday.  

The expected increase -- intended to keep the economy and inflation on an even keel -- will come as Greenspan, the second-longest serving chairman, ends his era at the central bank.  
   TDGreenspan, 79, plans to turn the reins over to his one-time Fed colleague Ben Bernanke, 52, who more recently has been chairman of President George W. Bush's Council of Economic Advisers. The Senate is expected to confirm Bernanke's nomination on Tuesday. His swearing in as the new Fed chief probably will occur Wednesday.  

The changing of the country's economic guard has important implications for millions of investors, large and small.  

"This is Greenspan's last hurrah. The swan song for the big guy," said Richard Yamarone, economist at Argus Research.  

Federal Reserve policy-makers, at their previous meeting in December, suggested that their nearly two-year credit tightening campaign probably will be winding down. But policy-makers differed as to how much higher rates would need to go to accomplish their mission.  

That will be among the challenges Bernanke will confront.  

At Tuesday's meeting, though, the Fed is expected to add one-quarter of a percentage point to an important short-term interest rate known as the federal funds rate. That would put the funds rate, the interest banks charge each other on overnight loans, at 4.50 percent, and would mark the 14th increase since June 2004.  

In response, commercial banks would raise their prime lending rate -- for certain credit cards, home equity lines of credit and other loans -- by a corresponding amount to 7.50 percent.  

Those moves would leave borrowing costs at their highest in more than 4 1/2 years.  

It is part of a process to bring borrowing cost back to more normal levels. The Fed had sliced its funds rate to a 46-year low of 1 percent as it sought to rescue the economy from the fallout from the bursting of the stock market bubble in 2000, a recession and terror attacks in 2001 and a wave of corporate accounting scandals that rocked Wall Street.  

The Fed's rate increases also are aimed at fending off inflation. Consumer prices in 2005 rose by 3.4 percent, the most in five years. The main culprit: lofty energy prices. Economists are still predicting inflation won't be as bad this year, but they admit that the energy situation is a wild card for the economy.  

Some economists believe Bernanke at his first meeting as Fed chief on March 28 will push up the funds rate again to 4.75 percent, a move that would show he'll be as tough an inflation-fighter as Greenspan.  

"Bernanke needs to do this to send a message to financial markets that when it comes to inflation, 'I'm not Gentle Ben, I'm Big Ben,'" Yamarone joked.  

That meeting promises to be closely watched.  

The economy grew by just 1.1 percent in the final quarter of 2005, the worst showing in three years, as consumers, businesses and even the federal government tightened the belt.  

Despite the feeble finish, the economy logged solid growth of 3.5 percent for all of 2005 -- a year when the country coped with fallout from soaring energy prices and the devastating Gulf Coast hurricanes. Economists predict growth for 2006 will top 3 percent.  

On the jobs front, economists believe employers boosted payrolls by 245,000 in January, which would mark an improvement from the 108,000 jobs created in December. Unemployment is expected to hold steady at 4.9 percent. The employment report for January will be released Feb. 3.  

If the ritual of countless past meetings holds, Greenspan on Tuesday will sink into his chairman's chair -- the top of which has a brass plaque that carries his name. (It's a tradition for Fed board members to take their chairs with them when they leave the Fed).  

Greenspan and his colleagues will gather around a 27-foot-long (8.5-meter-long) mahogany table and discuss interest rate policy.  

Analysts are not expecting major changes in the Fed's policy statement, released after the closed-door meeting. "Greenspan wants to go out quietly," said Gregory Miller, chief economist at SunTrust Banks. The Fed chief plans to end his day at the central bank with little fanfare.  

After the leaving the Fed, Greenspan plans to open his own economic consulting business. He also may show up on the speaking circuit and write a book.  

------  

On the Net:  

Federal Reserve:  http://www.federalreserve.gov/ 
   RF7   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPCtagpf1wcat | sel----- | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | NA FIN ECO US Fed Interest Rates | D8FF6CKO3   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020060130e21u002xi  



 SELEX COLUMN   HDUS interest rates - LEX COLUMN.   WC270 words   PD1 February 2006   SNFinancial Times   SCFTFT   EDUSA Ed2   PGPage 14   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPEven the most experienced athletes can drop the baton at the end of a great run. Not, it appears, central bankers. Alan Greenspan's hand-over of the Federal Reserve chairmanship to Ben Bernanke was seamless. Markets barely budged. Yet another quarter point rise, to 4.5 per cent, brings interest rates back near neutral territory. Changes to the Fed statement left Mr Bernanke's hands free for the future.

Importantly, the Fed took the tightening process off auto-pilot by saying further interest rate rises "may" be needed to keep growth and price stability in balance. Before, further tightening was "likely". The notion of "measured" increases was also removed to increase Mr Bernanke's flexibility.
   TDThat does not, however, mean the tightening cycle is over. At least one more quarter point hike remains likely. After various one-off factors dragged down economic growth at the end of last year, it is likely to rebound in the first quarter. There must also be a concern that inflation, already near the top of the Fed's comfort zone, spikes up in the spring as it has for the last two years.

The handover was smooth. But it has come just before an inflection point for interest rates - and possibly for growth if a slowing housing market takes its toll later in the year. After a run of unanimous decisions to normalise rates, there will be increased potential for disagreement as open market committee members weigh how the growth and inflation outlook will develop. Mr Bernanke will have to prove his fitness quickly. 
   RF20060201U214.801   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | nanl : Analysis | ncat : Content Types   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTFT000020060201e2210006g  



 HDSenate approves Bernanke to succeed Greenspan as Fed chairman     BYBy JEANNINE AVERSA     CRAP Economics Writer   WC743 words   PD1 February 2006   ET01:31   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.  
   LPWASHINGTON (AP) - The Senate on Tuesday approved the nomination of Ben Bernanke to be the next chairman of the Federal Reserve, the most influential economic policy job in the world.  

Bernanke, 52, was cleared on a voice vote after a short debate in the chamber amid strong bipartisan support.  
   TD"Ben is a man of impeccable credentials, sound policy judgment and strong character, and he will make an outstanding chairman," President Bush said in a statement. "Ben has provided wise counsel and good advice as a member of my economic team, and he will serve our nation with great distinction at the Federal Reserve."  

He succeeds Alan Greenspan, 79, who retired Tuesday after 18 1/2 years, making him the second-longest serving chairman at the central bank.  

"We believe that Dr. Bernanke will serve this country well at the helm of the Federal Reserve," said Sen. Richard Shelby, R-Ala., in remarks on the Senate floor before the vote.  

Sen. Paul Sarbanes, D-Md., observed: "There's no question about Dr. Bernanke's qualifications for the position. ... He commands great respect from his peers in the profession and I think great respect from all who have come in contact with him."  

Sen. Jim Bunning, R-Ky., was the only senator requesting to be recorded as voting against the nomination. Bunning cited concerns that Bernanke would be too much in Greenspan's mold. "Sadly, I have not seen very much evidence of him being independent," Bunning said.  

A former Fed governor and Princeton economic professor, Bernanke, chairman of the White House's Council of Economic Advisers, was tapped by Bush in October for the Fed post.  

Bernanke must be sworn in before he takes over as the chairman of the Fed. A private swearing-in ceremony will take place Wednesday morning at the Federal Reserve, the central bank said in a statement.  

The Fed determines interest rate policies that affect any person or business borrowing money. Its decisions -- along with utterances from the Fed chief -- can influence financial markets around the globe.  

Bernanke will lead the Fed at a time when the U.S. economy faces challenges, including bloated budget and trade deficits, the question of whether the high-flying housing market will make a safe landing and the toll that high energy prices will have on business activity, household budgets and inflation.  

The handling of monetary policy under the Bernanke-run Fed -- at least early on -- is not expected to be much different from the Fed under Greenspan. Both men share a similar philosophy in terms of the importance of fighting inflation, preparing for remote but dangerous economic risks, and keeping the economy on an even keel while nurturing job creation.  

And, Bernanke -- like Greenspan -- will work to make sure the Fed remains free from political influence. That's crucially important for the Fed to have credibility in the eyes of investors and central bankers around the world.  

Yet, there are certainly differences between the two in substance as well as style.  

Bernanke, for instance, favors numerically spelling out acceptable bounds for inflation. Greenspan didn't, arguing that it could crimp the Fed's flexibility.  

In terms of setting interest rates, an inflation target wouldn't make much practical difference because the Fed's preferred range of inflation under Greenspan -- which wasn't publicly announced -- was 1 to 2 percent, excluding food and energy prices. That's the same range favored by Bernanke.  

Bernanke, in his Senate confirmation hearing on Nov. 15, said he would move slowly and seek to build a consensus on the notion of inflation targeting.  

While Greenspan is known for his Delphic discourse, Bernanke is known for his plain-speaking style.  

The Senate's action is the latest step in Bernanke's journey from academic to economic policy maker.  

Born in Augusta, Ga., Bernanke graduated from Harvard with an economics degree and added a Ph.D. in economics from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. He spent six years teaching at Stanford's Graduate School of Business, 17 years at Princeton and several years as a visiting faculty member at other institutions, including MIT.  

"I always thought I would be an academic lifer," he once said.  

Bernanke left the classroom behind when he became a Fed governor in 2002, a job he held until June 2005 when he became the president's chief economist.  
   RF5   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagdsp | sel----- | catw   IPDAP National News | Washington | Fed Bernanke | D8FG02TG0   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020060201e2210007i  



 HDNew U.S.  Federal Reserve  chairman may just fine-tune Fed policies     BYBy JEANNINE AVERSA     CRAP Economics Writer   WC1,049 words   PD30 January 2006   ET01:06   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.  
   LPWASHINGTON (AP) - If he waits too long, he could cripple the economy. If he stops too early, inflation could get out of hand.  

Ben Bernanke's first challenge as chairman of the Federal Reserve will be deciding when to end the central bank's nearly two-year-old rate-raising campaign.  
   TDHis decision will affect the financial lives of millions of consumers, businesses and investors.  

"We are at a transition point. Bernanke takes over the Fed when policy is no longer clear cut," said Diane Swonk, chief economist at Mesirow Financial. "There is no magical number we really know that is the right number to stop at. So his biggest challenge is when to stop."  

Bernanke, 52, is slated to succeed Alan Greenspan, who retires on Tuesday after 18 1/2 years at the helm.  

Economists predict Greenspan, at his final meeting on interest-rate policy, will oversee the jump of an important rate to 4.50 percent that day. Bernanke's inaugural meeting is March 28.  

Interest rates are just one of the challenges facing Bernanke during his four year-term as Fed chief:  

--The high-flying housing market. It has played a critical role in supporting consumer spending and the overall economy. If it were to crash, then Bernanke and his Fed colleagues would have to devise a plan to cope with the fallout.  

--Trade and budget deficits. Bernanke has gone on record about the need to trim these deficits, which foreigners finance. Japan, China and Britain are the biggest holders of Treasury securities.  

If foreign investors were to sour on the United States and unload their holdings, the economy could be in for trouble. In a worst-case scenario, the price of stocks and bonds would plunge and interest rates would surge.  

The value of the dollar would sink, raising the price of goods coming into the U.S. from abroad and giving U.S. companies more leeway to raise their own prices, thus fanning inflation.  

That would present Bernanke with a weak economy and rising inflation -- and conflicting remedies. An ailing economy normally is helped by lower interest rates; higher rates curb inflation.  

--Energy prices. Hurricane Katrina offered vivid evidence of just how quickly prices can soar. After the hurricane, which knocked out crucial oil and gas facilities in the Gulf Coast, oil prices topped $70 a barrel and gasoline prices rose above $3 a gallon.  

Surging energy prices can crimp consumer spending, employment and overall economic activity, and lead to higher inflation if businesses pass along their higher costs to customers.  

Surveying those potential hot spots, economists have little doubt that Bernanke has the intellect for the job.  

"I'd bet on Ben's ability to see what was coming around the next corner over just about anybody else," said Robert Frank, a Cornell University economics professor who wrote a textbook with Bernanke.  

Bernanke taught himself calculus in high school. He scored 1,590 out of a possible 1,600 on his SAT. He graduated from Harvard with an economics degree and added a doctorate in economics from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.  

He has spent most of his professional life in academia, including 17 years teaching at Princeton, where he headed the economics department.  

"If he could get consensus on controversial matters at an academic department full of superstars, I think that's a real good sign" for how he will do as Fed chief, Frank said.  

Bernanke left Princeton to become a governor at the Federal Reserve Board, working with Greenspan for nearly three years. Bernanke then went on to be chairman of the White House's Council of Economic Advisers. His nomination to be Fed chief is awaiting Senate approval, which is expected.  

Greenspan, 79, had a distinguished career as an economic forecaster before he went to the Fed. He had a sixth sense about Wall Street's psyche and a mastery of politics that enabled him to maneuver through Republican and Democratic administrations and congressional grillings, and build consensus among his Fed colleagues.  

Bernanke will be tested in these areas.  

He did not work on Wall Street and has had limited political experience. Winning support at the Fed and earning credibility with financial and political players outside the central bank will go a long way in determining the success of the Bernanke Fed.  

"To establish some credibility with the markets, that is really half the game," said Nelson Mark, economics professor at the University of Notre Dame.  

Bernanke's interest in seeing the Fed adopt an "inflation target" -- numerically spelling out the acceptable bounds for inflation -- also will test his political and leadership skills, analysts said. Bernanke see this initiative as a way to help demystify the Fed and improve communications with investors and the public.  

It also will be important for Bernanke to have good relations with his central bank counterparts in other countries. The financial crises in Asia in 1997 that spread to Russia and Brazil are a sobering reminder of this need.  

And, of course, there is the daunting challenge of taking over for Greenspan, who has been referred to as the maestro, the second-most important person in Washington and the greatest central banker ever.  

"Anytime you follow a legend, even if you are spectacularly successful yourself, you are apt to seem you are coming up a little short," said Stephen Buser, professor emeritus of finance at Ohio State University.  

The plain-speaking Bernanke must figure out whether clarity is always the best. Greenspan could be clear when he wanted to, but his Delphic discourse is fabled.  

Greenspan weighed in on a range of issues -- President George W. Bush's tax cuts, for example -- and sometimes caught flak for it. "Bernanke will have to determine what issues are off and on limits," said Lynn Reaser, chief economist at Bank of America's Investment Strategies Group.  

Bernanke has said he will not take a public stand on specific tax or spending proposals before Congress.  

As a respected economist with sterling academic credentials, Bernanke could find that "his greatest challenge may be living up to his own reputation," Swonk said.  

------  

On the Net:  

Federal Reserve:  http://www.federalreserve.gov/ 
   RF7   COmsirw : Mesirow Financial Holdings Inc   INi831 : Financial Investments | iinv : Investing/Securities   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPCtagpf1wcat | sel----- | cati   IPDInternational | NA FIN US Bernanke's Challenges | D8FELH3O4   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020060130e21u00011  



 HDDavos 2006: World Economic Forum: U.K. housing market's cooling may be a warning for U.S. --- Easing prices slowed consumer spending; risks of higher rates     BYBy Ilona Billington Dow Jones Newswires     WC886 words   PD30 January 2006   SNThe Wall Street Journal Europe   SCWSJE   PG9   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 2006, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)  
   LPLONDON -- Amber Bird's successes and setbacks in the U.K. housing market have helped heat and now cool the country's economy. Some economists say her experiences -- and those of thousands of Britons like her -- also could be a harbinger for the U.S. economy.  

The 28-year-old project manager made a big profit when she sold her first home in July 2003 amid a peak in housing prices fueled by record-low mortgage rates. After buying the two-bedroom London apartment in 2002 for GBP 120,000 ($212,000), she had spent GBP 5,000 remodeling a kitchen, installing a shower and buying a sofa. She then sold the house for GBP 155,000.  
   TDHer second home-buying experience wasn't as profitable or as good for the U.K. economy. Ms. Bird and her fiance bought a home in January 2004 in the Cotswolds for GBP 197,000 and spent about GBP 3,000 on new electrical wiring, lighting, a wardrobe, dining table and living-room carpet. But 15 months later -- after five interest-rate increases by the Bank of England -- the couple barely broke even when they sold the house for GBP 200,000, some GBP 25,000 below their asking price.  

Now Ms. Bird is renting and no longer shopping in home-improvement and furniture stores.  

The double whammy of leveling-off home prices and faltering consumer spending has reverberated through the U.K. economy over the past 18 months, shouldering most of the blame for driving down growth of the country's gross domestic product to 1.75% in 2005 from 3.2% in 2004. Now economists say the U.S. faces a similar risk if the Federal Reserve continues to raise rates, ultimately taking the air out of its housing market and ending a buying binge by American homeowners that has been stoked largely by borrowing made possible by rapidly appreciating home values.  

With U.S. consumer spending accounting for about 20% of global GDP growth, many economists believe a punctured American housing bubble could roil global markets -- a fear voiced by economists at the just-ended World Economic Forum annual meeting in Davos, Switzerland.  

To be sure, U.K. economic growth is expected to pick up this year and any slowdown in the U.S. is likely to be gradual. Cutbacks in consumer spending also can correct economic imbalances by increasing personal savings rates. And for the global economy, slack created by weaker U.S. domestic spending could be picked up in part by growing economies in Asia and even a modest rebound in Europe, economists say.  

Still, the ups and downs of the U.K. housing market show that even soft landings from overheated home sales can spook consumers. "Knowing that the price of your home is no longer growing by 10% or more is enough to put a brake on spending and to see consumers start to save again," says Emma Brandwood, an economist at U.K. financial-services group Legal & General Investment Trust.  

When Ms. Bird sold her first home in 2003, the Bank of England had just cut the U.K. base interest rate to a record low of 3.5%. "Within hours," she recalls, "I had a showing and within one day, two offers." U.K. house prices jumped 12.6%, 14.1% and 17% in the next three quarters, from the year-earlier periods. Household spending followed suit, growing a healthy 1% in 2003 and the first half of 2004.  

After the Bank of England's five successive rate increases to cool the housing market raised the base rate to 4.75%, household spending began slowing, rising a bare 0.1% in the first three months of 2005.  

In the U.S., household spending has been driving the economy during more than a decade of appreciation in home prices of nearly 10% a year on average, accounting for 70% of U.S. GDP growth last year, according to Legal & General's Ms. Brandwood.  

Rate cuts by the Fed between May 2000 and June 2003 reduced the federal-funds rate to a low of 1% from 6.5% and triggered lower mortgage rates. That helped extend an already-booming housing market, giving consumers even more equity in their property to spend. But after the Fed reversed course in part to keep inflation in check amid higher energy prices -- raising rates 13 times between June 2004 and December 2005 -- many economists and housing officials expect the U.S. housing market to slow this year.  

"The U.S. has been enjoying an unprecedented housing boom over the last decade, but that is set to change in 2006," says Dominick Prevete, regional vice president for New Jersey-based Weichert Realtors.  

If Amber Bird's feelings about the U.K. housing market are any indication, it will take a while for consumers to resume spending fueled by fat home-selling profits. "I would rather take my time and look for something that would suit for five years or so," she says, "because I'm a little nervous of the market now."  
   INi5010022 : Residential Building Construction | i85 : Real Estate Transactions | i501 : Building Construction | iconst : Construction | icre : Construction/Real Estate | ireest : Real Estate   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m131 : Money Markets | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REuk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe   IPCDRT | CYC | FIN | NND | LMJ   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument WSJE000020060130e21u0000k  



 HDNew U.S.  Federal Reserve  leader sworn in; economists expect one more  interest rate  hike     BYBy MARTIN CRUTSINGER     CRAP Economics Writer   WC818 words   PD1 February 2006   ET15:40   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.  
   LPWASHINGTON (AP) - Ben Bernanke was sworn in Wednesday to be the 14th chairman of the Federal Reserve, completing an historic changing of the guard at the U.S. central bank.  

Bernanke's first major piece of business is likely to decide what to do next with interest rates.  
   TDMany economists are betting that the Fed, which increased rates for a 14th consecutive time on Tuesday, will raise rates one last time at the next meeting on March 28 -- Bernanke's first as Fed chief. Then, the Fed probably will stand pat for perhaps the rest of the year.  

One of the reasons many analysts believe that the central bank will nudge rates up one last time is a feeling that Bernanke will want to show that he is just as much of an inflation-fighter as his predecessor, Alan Greenspan.  

"Bernanke will feel the need to look tough in the fight against inflation and a good way to do that is to raise rates another quarter point," said economist David Jones, head of a Denver-area consulting firm.  

The oath of office was administered to Bernanke in the Fed's stately board room by vice chairman Roger Ferguson.  

For his part, Greenspan, who wrapped up 18 1/2 years as Fed chairman on Tuesday, was scheduled to be at work Wednesday as well, at his new job -- running Greenspan Associates, a private economic consulting firm he is setting up in Washington.  

Private economists gave Greenspan high marks, not only for the successful way he handled the economy during his tenure, but also for the smooth transition he provided for Bernanke.  

The Fed's goal has been to gradually nudge up the federal funds rate, the interest that banks loan to each other, from 1 percent in 2003, a low going back more than 40 years, to a neutral level where it is neither stimulating nor depressing economic growth.  

The Fed's action on Tuesday boosted the funds rate one-quarter percentage point to 4.5 percent, the highest it has been in nearly five years.  

Commercial banks quickly followed suit Tuesday by increasing their prime rate, the benchmark for millions of consumer and business loans, to 7.5 percent, also the highest level in nearly five years.  

Analysts said if they are correct that the Fed will raise rates only one more time this year, then the prime will end up at 7.75 percent, still below the 9.5 percent peak the prime hit in 2000 during the Fed's last credit-tightening cycle.  

Long-term mortgage rates, which are set by financial markets but influenced by the Fed, are expected to rise by a half-point or so by the end of the year. That would put the average 30-year mortgage rate, currently at 6.1 percent, at around 6.6 percent, still low by historical standards.  

Some analysts, however, are worried that the Fed may have to go further than one more rate hike if inflation pressures get out of control.  

Stephen Stanley, chief economist at RBS Greenwich Capital, said he believed the Fed would not only raise rates in May but perhaps as many as three more times after that.  

"We look for strong economic figures and a gradual pickup in core inflation to force several more moves this year," he said.  

However, analysts in the one-more-and-done camp argue that the economy is already slowing as rising interest rates begin to cool the red-hot housing market. If the Fed overdoes the tightening, it could cause a more severe slump in housing.  

"That could really crimp consumer spending and hold back economic growth," said Greg McBride, senior financial analyst at Bankrate.com, an online financial service.  

One hint, these analysts say, that the Fed is close to ending its rate hikes was a small change in the wording of Tuesday's statement. The Fed said future rate increases "may be needed" to fight inflation, when in December the Fed said such rate hikes were "likely to be needed."  

More about the Fed's intentions will be known on Feb. 15 when Bernanke is scheduled to give the Fed's twice-a-year monetary report to Congress. Analysts look for him to signal a strong bond with Greenspan, especially in the area of fighting inflation.  

In saying goodbye on Tuesday to hundreds of Fed staffers at a reception, Greenspan told them they had an important job to do in protecting the dollar against the ravages of rising prices.  

"We are in charge of the nation's currency," Greenspan said. "The central bank, because of that, is involved in everyone's daily lives. We are the guardians of their purchasing power."  

------  

On the Net:  

Federal Reserve:  http://www.federalreserve.gov 
   RF5   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPCtagpf1wcat | sel----- | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | NA FIN ECO US Fed Interest Rates | D8FGCGR83   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020060201e221001yy  



 HDSenate approves Bernanke to succeed Greenspan as Fed chairman     BYBy JEANNINE AVERSA     CRAP Economics Writer   WC682 words   PD1 February 2006   ET00:46   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.  
   LPWASHINGTON (AP) - The Senate on Tuesday approved the nomination of Ben Bernanke to be the next chairman of the Federal Reserve, generally considered the most influential economic policy job in the world.  

Bernanke, 52, was cleared on a voice vote after a short debate in the chamber amid strong bipartisan support.  
   TD"Ben is a man of impeccable credentials, sound policy judgment and strong character, and he will make an outstanding chairman," President George W. Bush said in a statement. "Ben has provided wise counsel and good advice as a member of my economic team, and he will serve our nation with great distinction at the Federal Reserve."  

He succeeds Alan Greenspan, 79, who retires Tuesday after 18 1/2 1/2 years, making him the second-longest serving chairman at the U.S. central bank.  

"We believe that Dr. Bernanke will serve this country well at the helm of the Federal Reserve," said Sen. Richard Shelby, in remarks on the Senate floor before the vote.  

Sen. Paul Sarbanes, observed: "There's no question about Dr. Bernanke's qualifications for the position ... He commands great respect from his peers in the profession and I think great respect from all who have come in contact with him."  

A former Fed governor and Princeton University economic professor, Bernanke, chairman of the White House's Council of Economic Advisers, was tapped by Bush in October for the Fed post.  

Bernanke must be sworn in before he takes over as the chairman of the Fed.  

The Fed determines interest rate policies that affect any person or business borrowing money. Its decisions -- along with utterances from the Fed chief -- can influence financial markets around the globe.  

Bernanke will lead the Fed at a time when the U.S. economy faces challenges, including bloated budget and trade deficits, the question of whether the high-flying housing market will make a safe landing and the toll that high energy prices will have on business activity, household budgets and inflation.  

The handling of monetary policy under the Bernanke-run Fed -- at least early on -- is not expected to be much different than of the Greenspan Fed. Both men share a similar philosophy in terms of the importance of fighting inflation, preparing for remote but dangerous economic risks, and keeping the economy on an even keel while nurturing job creation.  

And, Bernanke -- like Greenspan -- will work to make sure the Fed remains free from political influence. That's , crucially important for the Fed to have credibility in the eyes of investors and central bankers around the world.  

Yet, there are certainly differences between the two in both substance as well as style.  

Bernanke, for instance, favors numerically spelling out acceptable bounds for inflation. Greenspan didn't, arguing that it could crimp the Fed's flexibility.  

In terms of setting interest rates, an inflation target wouldn't make much practical difference because the Fed's preferred range of inflation under Greenspan -- which wasn't publicly announced -- was 1 to 2 percent, excluding food and energy prices. That's the same range favored by Bernanke.  

Bernanke, in his Senate confirmation hearing on Nov. 15, said he would move slowly and seek to build a consensus on the notion of inflation targeting.  

While Greenspan is known for his Delphian discourse, Bernanke is known for his plain-speaking style.  

The Senate's action is the latest step in Bernanke's journey from academic to economic policy maker.  

Bernanke graduated from Harvard with an economics degree and added a Ph.D. in economics from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. He spent six years teaching at Stanford's Graduate School of Business, 17 years at Princeton and several years as a visiting faculty member at other institutions, including Massachusetts Institute of Technology.  

"I always thought I would be an academic lifer," he once said.  

Bernanke left the classroom behind when he became a Fed governor in 2002, a job he held until June 2005 when he became the president's chief economist.  
   RF7   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPCtagpf1wcat | sel----- | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | NA FIN ECO US Fed Bernanke Nomination | D8FFVDN80   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020060131e21v002lj  



 HDPOLL-Wall St sees Bernanke starting out with March hike     BYBy Victoria Thieberger     WC721 words   PD31 January 2006   ET22:31   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006 Reuters Limited  
   LPNEW YORK, Jan 31 (Reuters) - Most of the top economists on Wall Street say Ben Bernanke will start off his tenure as Federal Reserve chairman with a rate rise at his first meeting, even though Fed officials opened the door on Tuesday to a pause in the 19-month tightening campaign.  

A Reuters poll taken on Tuesday after Alan Greenspan's last policy meeting at the Fed that pushed through another quarter-percentage point hike in interest rates found 17 of 21 economists expect another such move at the March 28 meeting.  
   TDEconomists stressed Bernanke would not be acting on autopilot, but rather on the merits of the economic data, which are forecast to show a bounceback from the fourth quarter's anemic growth rate of 1.1 percent.  

In the statement released after the policy meeting, the Fed said more tightening "may be" needed, a less certain promise than its previous statement that another move was "likely."  

"The new wording makes it very much conditional on what the economic data show from here and gives Mr Bernanke a freer hand when he takes charge tomorrow," said CIBC economist Peter Buchanan.  

Bernanke was confirmed by the Senate earlier on Tuesday and will be sworn in as chairman on Wednesday. Alan Greenspan retired on Tuesday after 18-1/2 years at the helm of the world's most influential central bank.  

After the rate announcement, U.S. short-term interest rate futures lifted the chances of another central bank rate hike in March <FFJ6> to 82 percent from 74 percent before the meeting.  

LESS BAGGAGE FOR NEW CHIEF  

As part of a recent shift to give financial markets less guidance about future rate moves ahead of the transition to a new Fed chief, the statement on Tuesday also dropped another key word from its lexicon.  

It no longer said future moves would be "measured," a phrase in place for 19 months to signal steady, quarter-percentage point hikes.  

"This gets rid of last piece of literary baggage the Fed had been dealing with in this rate cycle," said Countrywide Financial economist Eric Green.  

"Bernanke is going to seal the deal, I can't imagine why he wouldn't raise rates in March," said Green, citing his expectations of a very strong recovery in the first quarter to over 5 percent GDP growth and a rise in core inflation.  

The Federal Reserve has raised interest rates at every meeting since June 2004 to restore borrowing costs to more normal levels from an ultra-low 1.0 percent and to help head off inflation.  

Core inflation rose to the top of the central bank's perceived comfort zone of 1 percent to 2 percent last year, and senior Fed officials have warned the risks remain for higher inflation.  

But the economic news on Tuesday showed scant inflation pressures, with a broad measure of wages, the employment cost index, rising 3.1 percent over the past year, a six-year low.  

"The employment cost index report adds to the growing list of evidence that there is very little in the way of cost pressures in the inflation pipeline," Merrill Lynch chief economist David Rosenberg wrote in a research note to clients.  

The four economists in the Reuters poll who see the Fed pausing in March cited softer consumer spending and further weakening in the housing sector as likely to stay the Fed's hand at the next meeting.  

"They're clearly still leaning toward more tightening if needed, but there's no presumption that they continue to go," said UBS senior economist Jim O'Sullivan.  

The Reuters survey of the top primary bond dealers on Wall Street that trade with the Fed in open markets was unchanged from a poll taken last week.  

Looking further ahead, economists in the survey had a wide range of forecasts as to where interest will be at year's end, ranging from 3.5 percent to 5.5 percent, resting partly on how they see the housing sector faring through the year. (For details of the Reuters Fed poll, please double-click on [FED/R])  
   RFECONOMY-FED (POLL)|LANGEN|Table|ABN|C|D|E|M|O|U|MTL|GRO|SOF|OIL|ABX|BNX   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe1102 : Money Supply | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | mcpdbt : Corporate Debt/Bond Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | usny : New York | namz : North America | use : Northeast U.S.   IPCFED | FCAST | GVD | DBT | INT | MCE | CEN | STIR | PLCY | EMBG:DBT | EMBG:PLCY | embargokeyE1E1   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument LBA0000020060203e21v0024r  



 HDCHRONOLOGY-Fed funds rate changes since 1990     WC705 words   PD31 January 2006   ET20:19   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006 Reuters Limited  
   LPNEW YORK, Jan 31 (Reuters) - The Federal Reserve on Tuesday raised the benchmark federal funds rate to 4.5 percent from 4.25 percent, the central bank's 14th interest rate hike in a row since it began tightening in June 2004.  

The following is a chronology of the Federal Reserve's changes in the federal funds rate since 1990.  
   TDMoves are measured in basis points (bps), each of which equals one-hundredth of a percentage point: 2006 Jan 31 Raised 25 bps to 4.50 pct 2005   


Dec 13             Raised 25 bps  to  4.25 pct
Nov 1              Raised 25 bps  to  4.00 pct
Sept 20            Raised 25 bps  to  3.75 pct
Aug 9              Raised 25 bps  to  3.50 pct
June 30            Raised 25 bps  to  3.25 pct
May 3              Raised 25 bps  to  3.00 pct
March 22           Raised 25 bps  to  2.75 pct
Feb 2              Raised 25 bps  to  2.50 pct
2004
Dec 14             Raised 25 bps  to  2.25 pct
Nov 10             Raised 25 bps  to  2.00 pct
Sept 21            Raised 25 bps  to  1.75 pct
Aug 10             Raised 25 bps  to  1.50 pct
June 30            Raised 25 bps  to  1.25 pct
2003
June 25            Cut 25 bps     to  1.00 pct
2002
Nov 6              Cut 50 bps     to  1.25 pct
2001
Dec 12             Cut 25 bps     to  1.75 pct
Nov 6              Cut 50 bps     to  2.00 pct
Oct 2              Cut 50 bps     to  2.50 pct
Sept 17            Cut 50 bps     to  3.00 pct
Aug 21             Cut 25 bps     to  3.50 pct
June 27            Cut 25 bps     to  3.75 pct
May 15             Cut 50 bps     to  4.00 pct
April 18           Cut 50 bps     to  4.50 pct
March 20           Cut 50 bps     to  5.00 pct
Jan 31             Cut 50 bps     to  5.50 pct
Jan 3              Cut 50 bps     to  6.00 pct
2000
May 16             Raised 50 bps  to  6.50 pct
March 21           Raised 25 bps  to  6.00 pct
Feb 2              Raised 25 bps  to  5.75 pct
1999
Nov 16             Raised 25 bps  to  5.50 pct
Aug 24             Raised 25 bps  to  5.25 pct
June 30            Raised 25 bps  to  5.00 pct
1998
Nov 17             Cut 25 bps     to  4.75 pct
Oct 15             Cut 25 bps     to  5.00 pct
Sept 29            Cut 25 bps     to  5.25 pct
1997
March 25           Raised 25 bps  to  5.50 pct
1996
Jan 31             Cut 25 bps     to  5.25 pct
1995
Dec 19             Cut 25 bps     to  5.50 pct
July 6             Cut 25 bps     to  5.75 pct
Feb 1              Raised 50 bps  to  6.00 pct
1994
Nov 15             Raised 75 bps  to  5.50 pct
Aug 16             Raised 50 bps  to  4.75 pct
May 17             Raised 50 bps  to  4.25 pct
April 18           Raised 25 bps  to  3.75 pct
March 22           Raised 25 bps  to  3.50 pct
Feb 4              Raised 25 bps  to  3.25 pct
1993
No rate changes
1992
Sept 4             Cut 25 bps     to  3.00 pct
July 2             Cut 50 bps     to  3.25 pct
April 9            Cut 25 bps     to  3.75 pct
1991
Dec 20             Cut 50 bps     to  4.00 pct
Dec 6              Cut 25 bps     to  4.50 pct
Nov 6              Cut 25 bps     to  4.75 pct
Oct 31             Cut 25 bps     to  5.00 pct
Sept 13            Cut 25 bps     to  5.25 pct
Aug 6              Cut 25 bps     to  5.50 pct
April 30           Cut 25 bps     to  5.75 pct
March 8            Cut 25 bps     to  6.00 pct
Feb 1              Cut 50 bps     to  6.25 pct
Jan 9              Cut 25 bps     to  6.75 pct
1990
Dec 18             Cut 25 bps     to  7.00 pct
Dec 7              Cut 25 bps     to  7.25 pct
Nov 13             Cut 25 bps     to  7.50 pct
Oct 29             Cut 25 bps     to  7.75 pct
July 13            Cut 25 bps     to  8.00 pct
  
   RFECONOMY-FED-CHRONOLOGY|LANGEN|Table|ABN|E|RBN|M|D|U|RNP|DNP   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe1102 : Money Supply | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | gvexe : Executive Branch | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | usny : New York | namz : North America | use : Northeast U.S.   IPCFED | CEN | MCE | INT | PLCY | STIR | GVD | DBT | WASH | EMBG:DBT | EMBG:PLCY | embargokeyE1R1:1   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument LBA0000020060131e21v001wq  



 HDUS stocks fall on rate fears; Google sinks late      BYBy Ellis Mnyandu      WC1,074 words   PD31 January 2006   ET15:57   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006 Reuters Limited   
   LP(Updates with Google's profit missing Wall Street's estimates and its stock sliding after hours, with impact on Wednesday trading)   

NEW YORK, Jan 31 (Reuters) - U.S. stocks fell on Tuesday, with investors rattled by the Federal Reserve's comments that more interest-rate increases may be needed, and after the bell, the mood soured further as Google Inc.'s profit missed Wall Street's estimates.   
   TDThe profit shortfall -- the Web search company's first since it went public in August 2004 -- set the stage for a sharp sell-off in technology shares on Wednesday, starting with the resumption of trading in Asia.   

Google shares tumbled 15.9 percent to $364 on the Inet electronic brokerage system from a Nasdaq close at $432.66 after it cited a higher-than-expected tax rate as the reason why its profit missed the consensus forecast.   

"When a company selling at this valuation and is this much of a Wall Street darling, and what we call a cult stock, misses earnings to the degree it missed here, the stock is really going to be hurt by it," said Tim Ghriskey, chief investment officer at Solaris Asset Management.   

The slide in Google shares pulled down shares of other Internet companies, including Yahoo Inc., whose stock fell 3 percent to $33.36, after the bell.   

The Dow Jones industrial average declined 35.06 points, or 0.32 percent, to end at 10,864.86. The Standard & Poor's 500 Index slipped 5.12 points, or 0.40 percent, to close at 1,280.08. The Nasdaq Composite Index inched down 0.96 of a point, or 0.04 percent, to 2,305.82.   

During Tuesday's regular trading, Wall Street got a surprise from the Federal Open Market Committee when it said more interest-rate increases may be needed to rein in inflation. The curve ball came on the final day of Alan Greenspan's 18-1/2-year tenure as Fed chairman. His successor, Ben Bernanke, was confirmed on Tuesday by the U.S. Senate.   

As expected, the FOMC raised the federal funds rate by a quarter percentage point to 4.5 percent from 4.25 percent. That was the Fed's 14th consecutive rate increase since its cycle of tightening credit began on June 30, 2004.   

"There are a couple of things that were a little alarming from the Fed statement, one of those being that elevated energy prices may add to inflation risk and that some further policy firming may be needed," said Larry Peruzzi, senior equity trader at The Boston Co. Asset Management.   

STOCK INDEXES RISE IN JANUARY   

For the month of January, all three major U.S. stock indexes rose, with the Dow up 1.4 percent, the S&P 500 up 2.6 percent and the Nasdaq up 4.6 percent. The gains marked the best January for U.S. equities since 2001.   

In Tuesday's regular trading on the New York Stock Exchange, shares of Altria Group Inc. were the biggest drag on the Dow. The stock ended down 2.1 percent, or $1.57, at $72.34 after the tobacco and food conglomerate forecast a drop in 2006 earnings, due partly to restructuring charges at its Kraft Foods Inc. business.   

Shares of Kraft, which is majority owned by Altria, dropped 1.9 percent, or 56 cents, to $29.44 on the NYSE.   

Even so, shares of aluminum producer Alcoa Inc. gained 3.2 percent after a UBS upgrade and helped limit the Dow's decline. Alcoa rose 97 cents to $31.50 on the NYSE.   

INVESTORS ON INFLATION WATCH   

Optimism that the Fed was close to ending its campaign of rate increases had driven U.S. equities higher in a strong start to 2006 and had given investors more reason to buy stocks, even with some earnings disappointments.   

But the Fed's statement on Tuesday made investors more cautious.   

"This, in my mind, increases the chances of another rate hike in March," said Brian Gendreau, investment strategist at ING Investment Management. "They have not declared the war on inflation to be over. Inflation is the key indicator to watch right now."   

The yield on the benchmark 10-year U.S. Treasury note fell to 4.52 percent from Monday's 4.53 percent. The 10-year note's price, which moves in the opposite direction of its yield, rose 2/32 to 99-26/32.   

The yield curve, or the spread between the yield of the 10-year note and that of the two-year Treasury note, remained almost flat. The two-year note's yield was 4.53 percent.   

On the economic front, a report from the National Association of Purchasing Management-Chicago showed business activity in the U.S. Midwest grew in January but at a slower rate than expected, offering a somewhat mixed view of the economy. A separate report showed U.S. consumer confidence improved to its highest level in more than three years.   

SEPRACOR LEADS NASDAQ'S GAINERS   

The stock of drug maker Sepracor Inc. jumped 17.6 percent, or $8.53, to $56.91 and ranked as the Nasdaq's top gainer after its fourth-quarter profit topped expectations.   

A drop in crude oil prices pulled down shares of Chevron Corp. and Exxon Mobil Corp. Chevron's stock fell 2.3 percent, or $1.37, to $59.38, while Exxon Mobil shares declined 0.6 percent, or 36 cents, to $62.75.   

U.S. crude for March delivery fell 43 cents to settle at $67.92 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. OPEC, which provides over a third of the world's oil, on Tuesday sealed a deal to keep oil output near a 25-year high.   

Trading was heavy on the NYSE, with about 1.98 billion shares changing hands, above last year's daily average of 1.61 billion, while on Nasdaq, about 2.38 billion shares traded, above last year's daily average of 1.80 billion.   

Despite the major stock indexes' declines on Tuesday, the market's breadth was positive. Advancing stocks outnumbered declining ones by a ratio of about 6 to 5 on the NYSE and by about 8 to 7 on the Nasdaq.   
   RFMARKETS-USA-STOCKS (UPDATE 12)|LANGEN|AFA|CSA|LBY|RWSA|RWS|REULB|GNS|ABX|BNX|SXNA   COgoog : Google Inc.   INi8395464 : Internet Search Engines | iint : Internet/Online Services   NSccat : Corporate/Industrial News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | e1202 : Interest Rates | m11 : Equity Markets | c1522 : Share Price Movement/Disruptions | c15 : Performance | c152 : Earnings Projections | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPC.N   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument LBA0000020060131e21v001gg  



 HDFed again raises interest rates as Greenspan retires     BYBy MARTIN CRUTSINGER     CRAP Economics Writer   WC587 words   PD31 January 2006   ET20:59   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.  
   LPWASHINGTON (AP) - The Federal Reserve on Tuesday nudged a key interest rate up to the highest level in nearly five years and left the door open for possibly one more rate hike as Alan Greenspan brought his long tenure as chairman to a close.  

At Greenspan's final meeting, the central bank voted to boost its target for the federal funds rate to 4.5 percent. It was the 14th quarter-point move in a credit-tightening campaign that began 19 months ago.  
   TDThe increase will raise borrowing costs for millions of American consumers and businesses as banks were expected to quickly boost their prime lending rates by a similar quarter-point. The prime rate stood at 7.25 percent before Tuesday's Fed meeting.  

Many private economists believe the Fed is likely to raise rates at least one more time, at its next meeting on March 28. But the Fed modified its statement on Tuesday to give Greenspan's successor, Ben Bernanke, more leeway.  

Bernanke, a former Fed board member who since last summer has been President George W. Bush's chief economic adviser, was confirmed by the Senate on Tuesday within moments of the Fed's rate announcement.  

Bernanke will take over on Wednesday as the Fed's 14th chairman since the central bank was created in 1913.  

The Fed modified Tuesday's statement to say that "some further policy firming may be needed" to keep inflation under control. That was a slight change from the December meeting when it had said that "measured policy firming is likely to be needed."  

Analysts said the minor change was made to avoid limiting Bernanke's policy options. But they also said they still expect Bernanke will raise rates by one last quarter-point to 4.75 percent as a way of signaling to financial markets that he intends to be as tough an inflation-fighter as Greenspan.  

"I think there will be one more quarter-point hike and then the Fed will go on hold for the rest of the year," said David Jones, chief economist for a Denver-area consulting firm.  

The goal of the central bank has been to push interest rates up as a way of slowing the economy and making sure that low inflation -- probably Greenspan's biggest legacy -- will remain under control.  

To commemorate Greenspan's final day, photographers and television camera crews had been allowed in for the first time to photograph a portion of the meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee, the panel of Fed board members and regional Fed bank presidents who meet eight times a year behind closed doors to set interest rates.  

Beyond presiding the latest Fed monetary policy statement, Greenspan took a low-key approach to his last meeting. He and his colleagues ignored pleas by photographers to turn toward the cameras during the rare picture-taking opportunity. The requests elicited chuckles from the group.  

Greenspan plans to open his own economic consulting business to be called Greenspan Associates. He has already selected office space in Washington.  

The Fed has been aiming for a neutral federal funds rate -- a level where the economic growth is not being stimulated or held back -- and many analysts believe that is somewhere below 5 percent.  

Many economists believe the Fed will stop raising rates with one more increase to 4.75 percent on March 28.  

------  

On the Net:  

Federal Reserve:  http://www.federalreserve.gov 
   RF7   INi814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPCtagpf1wcat | sel----- | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | NA FIN ECO US Fed Interest Rates | D8FFS3B00   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020060131e21v001eh  



 HDFed Transition Concerns Wall Street     BYBy ELLEN SIMON     CRAP Business Writer   WC721 words   PD30 January 2006   ET20:40   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.  
   LPNEW YORK (AP) - Wall Street loves incoming Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke. It makes you wonder how investors would react to someone they hate.  

Merrill Lynch lowered its ranking of the financial sector from seventh to ninth among Standard & Poor's 10 stock sectors, with concerns about Bernanke given as one reason for the downgrade. UBS is already talking about how the new Fed chairman can allay doubts about him. And some events marking the transition between chairmen are decidedly backward looking.  
   TDBernanke was a popular choice as Fed chairman. On the day his appointment was announced, stocks had their best close in roughly six months; the Dow Jones industrial average rose nearly 170 points. But the truth is that after 18 years with Alan Greenspan as Fed chair, the Street is still fixated on the man.  

The American Enterprise Institute hosted an event on Jan. 24 titled, "What Will Greenspan's Departure Mean?"  

One topic of discussion: "Will Federal Reserve policy change under Bernanke, or has the Greenspan approach been hard-wired into the Fed?" Translation: Will it even matter that there's a new chairman?  

"It's natural to be nervous about the transition," said Marvin Goodfriend, professor of economics at Carnegie Mellon's Tepper School of Business. "It's the nature of the beast, when someone has been terrifically successful at this job, like Alan Greenspan has been, and has been in the job for a long time, you have to adapt to a new style of leadership. But I don't personally believe there will be much difference in the substance of the leadership."  

Investors are hoping he's right.  

Richard Bernstein, Merrill Lynch's U.S. strategist, said when he lowered his rating for the financial sector on Jan. 17, "if new Fed Chairman Bernanke is not as 'dovish' (toward inflation) as the market apparently expects, then investors might have to reconsider their recent enthusiasm toward financial" stocks, which could be hurt by further interest rate increases.  

Other investors are concerned that he won't use short-term rate hikes to pop economic bubbles, as some feel Greenspan has done, using the most recent rate increasses to cool down housing prices.  

Others are less nervous about Bernanke's policies than where he comes from.  

"(G)iven his academic background, investors are more likely to question Mr. Bernanke's ability to analyze real-time data, something Mr. Greenspan was famed for, than his commitment to low inflation," UBS economist Maury Harris wrote in December.  

"In that context, he will lose credibility if he under-appreciates the extent to which (economic) growth is already weakening in response to earlier rate hikes," Harris wrote. He then added ways Bernanke could "address doubts about his inflation-fighting credibility."  

Some investors dare suggest Bernanke may have strengths Greenspan lacks.  

Penny M. Russell, executive vice president of H.C. Wainwright & Co. Economics Inc., points out that Greenspan was a child of the Great Depression, while Bernanke's experience "is squarely within the baby-boomer generation." Greenspan is 79, while Bernanke is 52.  

"That can't help but imbue him with a more optimistic approach to the resilience of American financial markets," Russell wrote.  

Merrill Lynch's U.S. economist David Rosenberg wrote, with a nod to Greenspan's often ambiguous speeches, "Given his (Bernanke's) past accessibility to market types, his Fed experience, and the fact that we will not have to reach for a bottle of aspirin when reading his speeches, we think Bernanke is a great choice for Fed chairman."  

When Bernanke was a Fed governor, "practically every portfolio manager we met with who visited the Fed had met Bernanke and had positive things to say about him," Rosenberg wrote.  

Russell said Nobel-prize winning economist Milton Friedman was asked if he would like to see another genius at the Fed. His response, she reported, was, "Of course, we'd like to have another one." Then he reconsidered, "Though wouldn't it be better if we learned that we could do without one?"  

Russell wrote, "We agree. But absent that happy circumstance, it just may be that Mr. Bernanke will prove to be the next best thing."  

------  

On the Net:  

http://www.federalreserve.gov 
   RF7   ARTimage | NYBZ10201301531     NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | usny : New York | namz : North America | use : Northeast U.S.   IPCtagpf1apon | sel----- | catf | 1310   IPDFinancial/Business | Bernanke Wall Street | D8FF6NGG0   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020060130e21u002y6  



 HDSenate approves Bernanke to succeed Greenspan as Fed chairman     BYBy JEANNINE AVERSA     CRAP Economics Writer   WC353 words   PD31 January 2006   ET20:41   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.  
   LPWASHINGTON (AP) - The Senate on Tuesday approved the nomination of Ben Bernanke to be the next chairman of the Federal Reserve, generally considered the most influential economic policy job in the world.  

Bernanke, 52, was cleared on a voice vote after a short debate in the chamber amid strong bipartisan support.  
   TDHe succeeds Alan Greenspan, 79, who retires Tuesday after 18 1/2 years, making him the second-longest serving chairman at the U.S. central bank.  

"We believe that Dr. Bernanke will serve this country well at the helm of the Federal Reserve," said Sen. Richard Shelby, R-Ala., in remarks on the Senate floor before the vote.  

Sen. Paul Sarbanes observed: "There's no question about Dr. Bernanke's qualifications for the position ... He commands great respect from his peers in the profession and I think great respect from all who have come in contact with him."  

A former Fed governor and Princeton University economic professor, Bernanke, chairman of the White House's Council of Economic Advisers, was tapped by President George W. Bush in October for the Fed post.  

Bernanke must be sworn in before he takes over as the chairman of the Fed.  

The Fed determines interest rate policies that affect any person or business borrowing money. Its decisions -- along with utterances from the Fed chief -- can influence financial markets around the globe.  

Bernanke will lead the Fed at a time when the U.S. economy faces challenges, including bloated budget and trade deficits, the question of whether the high-flying housing market will make a safe landing and the toll that high energy prices will have on business activity, household budgets and inflation.  

The handling of monetary policy under the Bernanke-run Fed -- at least early on -- is not expected to be much different than of the Greenspan Fed. Both men share a similar philosophy in terms of the importance of fighting inflation, preparing for remote but dangerous economic risks, and keeping the economy on an even keel while nurturing job creation.  
   RF5   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagpf1wcat | sel----- | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | NA GEN US Fed Bernanke Nomination | D8FFRQOON   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020060131e21v002le  



 HDFed statement raising  interest rate    BYBy The Associated Press     WC247 words   PD31 January 2006   ET20:31   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.  
   LPStatement of the Federal Open Market Committee upon raising a key interest rate Tuesday:  

------  
   TDThe Federal Open Market Committee decided today to raise its target for the federal funds rate by 25 basis points to 4 1/2 percent.  

Although recent economic data have been uneven, the expansion in economic activity appears solid. Core inflation has stayed relatively low in recent months and longer-term inflation expectations remain contained. Nevertheless, possible increases in resource utilization as well as elevated energy prices have the potential to add to inflation pressures.  

The Committee judges that some further policy firming may be needed to keep the risks to the attainment of both sustainable economic growth and price stability roughly in balance. In any event, the Committee will respond to changes in economic prospects as needed to foster these objectives.  

Voting for the FOMC monetary policy action were: Alan Greenspan, Chairman; Timothy F. Geithner, Vice Chairman; Susan S. Bies; Roger W. Ferguson, Jr.; Jack Guynn; Donald L. Kohn; Jeffrey M. Lacker; Mark W. Olson; Sandra Pianalto; and Janet L. Yellen.  

In a related action, the Board of Governors unanimously approved a 25-basis-point increase in the discount rate to 5 1/2 percent. In taking this action, the Board approved the requests submitted by the Boards of Directors of the Federal Reserve Banks of Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, Kansas City, Dallas, and San Francisco.  
   RF7   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPCtagpf1wcat | sel----- | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | NA FIN ECO US Fed Statement | D8FFRMA8G   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020060131e21v002ke  



 HDMore Treasury investors cautious before FOMC-poll     WC383 words   PD31 January 2006   ET15:12   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006 Reuters Limited  
   LPNEW YORK, Jan 31 (Reuters) - More investors turned cautious on Treasuries after last week's sell-off and before Tuesday's meeting of the Federal Reserve's policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee, according to a poll released on Tuesday.  

Investors who said on Monday that they were "neutral" Treasuries, holding U.S. government securities equal to their portfolio benchmarks, rose to 48 percent from last week's 43 percent, said J.P. Morgan Securities.  
   TDWall Street has widely expected that the FOMC will raise its target interest rate on federal funds by 0.25 percentage point to 4.50 percent when its Tuesday meeting ends.  

Traders and investors have been more concerned whether the Fed's policy arm will signal whether it will soon wind down its current rate tightening policy.  

The FOMC has increased short-term U.S. rates 13 times since June 2004 when the Fed funds rate was at a multi-decade low of 1 percent.  

The Treasuries market succumbed to heavy selling last week on worries over a flood of new government debt supply. A government report also showed solid demand for U.S. durable goods, which could make the FOMC more reluctant to stop raising rates in the near future.  

The benchmark 10-year Treasury note yield <US10YT=RR> was 4.53 percent early Tuesday, slightly below its highest level since early December and up 14 basis points from a week earlier  

Investors who said on Monday they were "long" Treasuries -- holding more U.S. government securities than their portfolio benchmarks -- fell to 9 percent from 11 percent a week ago, said the bank.  

The share of "short" investors -- those holding less Treasuries than their benchmarks -- fell to 43 percent from 46 percent a week earlier, it said.  

Meanwhile, the survey's active clients, which include market makers and hedge funds, also turned more cautious on Treasuries than they were a week ago.  

The number of "long" active clients fell to 1 percent from 2 percent, and the share of "short" active clients dipped to 4 percent from 5 percent.  

J.P. Morgan began surveying the trading positions of its Treasuries clients in 1992.  
   RFFINANCIAL-TREASURIES-JPMORGAN|LANGEN|ABN|D|E|RBN|U|M|MNI|RNP|DNP   COjpmsi : JP Morgan Securities LLC | cnyc : JPMorgan Chase & Co.   INibcs : Business/Consumer Services | ibnk : Banking/Credit | i831 : Financial Investments | i83102 : Security Brokering/Dealing | iinv : Investing/Securities   NSe1102 : Money Supply | e1202 : Interest Rates | e214 : Sub-national/Local Borrowing | m16 : Fund Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | mmuni : Municipal Debt/Bond Markets | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e21 : Government Finance | e212 : Government Borrowing | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | usny : New York | namz : North America | use : Northeast U.S.   IPCFED | GVD | DBT | FIN | BNK | MUNI | FUND | STIR   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument LBA0000020060131e21v001cz  



 HDTEXT-FOMC statement from January 31 meeting      WC267 words   PD31 January 2006   ET20:14   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006 Reuters Limited   
   LPWASHINGTON, Jan 31 (Reuters) - The following is the text of the Federal Open Market Committee's statement on interest rate policy issued at the close of its meeting on Tuesday:   

"The Federal Open Market Committee decided today to raise its target for the federal funds rate by 25 basis points to 4.50 percent.   
   TDAlthough recent economic data have been uneven, the expansion in economic activity appears solid. Core inflation has stayed relatively low in recent months and longer-term inflation expectations remain contained. Nevertheless, possible increases in resource utilization as well as elevated energy prices have the potential to add to inflation pressures.   

The Committee judges that some further policy firming may be needed to keep the risks to the attainment of both sustainable economic growth and price stability roughly in balance. In any event, the Committee will respond to changes in economic prospects as needed to foster these objectives.   

Voting for the FOMC monetary policy action were: Alan Greenspan, Chairman; Timothy F. Geithner, Vice Chairman; Susan S. Bies; Roger W. Ferguson, Jr.; Jack Guynn; Donald L. Kohn; Jeffrey M. Lacker; Mark W. Olson; Sandra Pianalto; and Janet L. Yellen.   

In a related action, the Board of Governors unanimously approved a 25-basis-point increase in the discount rate to 5.50 percent. In taking this action, the Board approved the requests submitted by the Boards of Directors of the Federal Reserve Banks of Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, Kansas City, Dallas and San Francisco."   
   RFECONOMY-FED-TEXT|LANGEN|Table|FUN   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument LBA0000020060131e21v001wj  



 HDINSTANT VIEW-4: Fed raises rates, says more "may" be needed     WC1,465 words   PD31 January 2006   ET20:20   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006 Reuters Limited  
   LPNEW YORK, Jan 31 (Reuters) - The U.S. Federal Reserve raised its target for the federal funds rate by 0.25 percentage points for the fourteenth consecutive time to 4.5 percent.  

The Fed statement said "some further policy firming may be needed" to keep inflation and growth risks roughly in balance.  
   TDStory: [nTRT000092] Text: [nN31313649] COMMENTARY:  

NICK BENNENBROEK, VICE PRESIDENT OF FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESEARCH, BROWN BROTHERS HARRIMAN, NEW YORK:  

"Going into the announcement, there was the expectation that the wording would be changed. We did get that. The description of the economy was unchanged. There were, however, a couple of changes in policy signals. One was the removal of the word 'measured'. The second and most significant change was the reference to the fact that more policy firming may be needed. This does leave the door open for future rate hikes. The statement could be described as mildly hawkish. The dollar is reacting to the fact that the Fed rate hikes are not yet done."  

KATHLEEN CAMILLI, PRESIDENT, CAMILLI ECONOMICS LLC, NEW YORK:  

"The hike was in line with expectations, they gave the market what it was expecting."  

"These last two meetings, January and March, they've already telegraphed to the markets that they're close to the end of the tightening cycle, and that maybe in one or two more moves they'll be done. Removing the language 'measured' may imply that they're going to end the cycle with a last 50 basis points. Its hard to tell."  

"The removal of the language measured is probably why the stock market is down because it suggests the last move could be a big hike which would be negative for stocks."  

BOB LYNCH, HEAD OF G10 FX STRATEGY, AMERICAS, HSBC, NEW YORK:  

"I would certainly view (the dollar reaction) first off in the context of what had happened to the dollar earlier today. It had sold off notably against most of the majors...I suspect you are seeing a correction."  

"The Fed did remove the word 'measured' from the statement, but did say that some further policy firming 'may' be needed. They did use the term 'may' instead of 'likely'. In essence, a bit more dovish than the previous statement, but not more dovish than the interest rate market has currently priced in."  

JANE CARON, CHIEF ECONOMIC STRATEGIST, DWIGHT ASSET MANAGEMENT, BURLINGTON, VERMONT:  

"The statement implies that there could be one more tightening, or maybe an additional one on top of that, as long as the data supports that. Our view is that the data will support that, So we still see the Federal Funds rate going to 4.75 (percent) at the next meeting, and still apply about a 50 percent chance that it reaches 5 percent later in the year."  

JIM O'SULLIVAN, SENIOR ECONOMIST, UBS SECURITIES, STAMFORD, CONN.:  

"It's certainly a little further phasing down of the forward guidance. The 'may be' needed instead of 'likely' is moving more towards being data-dependent rather than having a presumption of going again.  

"It really will depend on the data, that's the message they have got across.  

"They certainly acknowldge indirectly the weak GDP data, they had to at least acknowledge it but they do effectively shrug it off."  

EDGAR PETERS, PANAGORA ASSET MANAGEMENT INC., CHIEF INVESTMENT OFFICER AND DIRECTOR OF ASSET ALLOCATION, BOSTON:  

"It appears this is the final confirmation that the Fed has reached neutral, but it of course gave no clues as to how many rate hikes. I think they're still concerned about inflation. So I think we're in for at least one more rate hike, probably two. But things were put in a much more neutral tone. They probably wanted to leave it open for Bernanke."  

KEITH HEMBRE, CHIEF ECONOMIST, U.S. BANCORP ASSET MANAGEMENT, MINNEAPOLIS:  

"It's very much as expected. The key aspect of change from the prior statement is backing off the commitment of further rate increases, and making things more data dependent.  

"Is the Fed done? Maybe. The tone of the data over the next eight weeks until the March meeting will determine whether there'll be another increase.  

"Based on the underlying data so far here, they are done here. By year-end, they could be moving (rates) back down if they were to raise rates to 4.75 percent. They clearly made reference to the last GDP report."  

JIM DUNIGAN, CHIEF INVESTMENT OFFICER AT PNC ADVISORS IN PITTSBURGH:  

"The change in language from 'will be likely' to 'may be likely' is what everyone will be focusing on. That makes it more data dependent going forward. We have eight weeks till the next meeting, so we'll have to look at the data that comes in. Had they kept that language, they would have handcuffed the new chairman a little bit. They have taken the shackles off a little."  

SCOTT FULLMAN, CHIEF STRATEGIST, INVESTEC (US) INC, NEW YORK:  

"Basically, the Fed took out the word measured from its statement in relation to further policy firming because of the imminent change at the helm.  

"The Fed did note that certain resources and energy prices may influence inflationary pressures in the future and left the door open to take action as necessary.  

"We believe this latest meeting was in line with most economists' thinking and should be of little surprise to investors. This really should have no measurable impact on the stock market over the near term.  

"Right now stocks prices are lower. The market held to near unchanged levels for most of the session awaiting the Fed's announcement."  

CHRIS PROBYN, CHIEF ECONOMIST, STATE STREET GLOBAL ADVISORS, BOSTON:  

"This quite a clever statement. They get economics out of the way and that's pretty accurate. The economy is growing at a solid pace ... They continued to be worried about the possibilities of inflation from too much consumer demand or feed through from energy.  

"Then they go on to untie Bernanke's hands because they say further policy tightening "may" be needed. It clearly suggests that the situation has not changed so much so that they are definitely done. They are more likely to tighten in March.  

"The dollar has been jittery. The movements have been relatively small today so I wouldn't get too excited. Bonds may have been disappointed by this message. Maybe they thought that the fed would clear Bernanke's hands."  

MICHAEL METZ, CHIEF INVESTMENT STRATEGIST AT OPPENHEIMER HOLDINGS INC. IN NEW YORK:  

"After a quick initial reaction, the (stock) market is probably going to yawn with this statement. The board is basically giving a free reign to Bernanke - they let the "measured" wording go, but at the same time they said some "firming" may still be needed. The Fed is probably not done yet."  

BRIAN GENDREAU, INVESTMENT STRATEGIST, ING INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT, NEW YORK:  

"This in my mind increases the chances of another rate hike in March, they have not declared the war on inflation to be over. Inflation is the key indicator to watch right now."  

ROBERT WALTERS, CHIEF ECONOMIST, QUICKEN LOANS INC, LAVONIA, MICHIGAN:  

"This is more hawkish than I think people anticipated. I think people were looking for something in statement to anticipate the end of the monetary tightening cycle. And by mentioning 'possible increases in resource utilization as well as elevated energy prices,' they're showing that they're concerned about potential inflation pressures. They're saying that some further policy firming may be needed. They're telling us they're not going to stop with this increase. They're leaving the window for a March rate increase wide open."  

MICHAEL JANSEN, CURRENCY STRATEGIST, NATIONAL AUSTRALIA BANK, NEW YORK:  

"They have presented Bernanke with a clean slate. They will come in in March and review the data from scratch and make a decision on the facts. The Fed has done 95 percent of its work. There is an outside chance of a fed rate hike in March but it will be 100 percent data dependent.  

"The initial reaction has been to buy dollars but we've just come back to where we were half an hour before the statement where the dollar was quite weak." MARKET REACTION - U.S. Treasury debt prices ticked down with the benchmark 10-year Treasury note <US10YT=RR> yielding around 4.52 percent. - The euro <EUR=> initially fell against the dollar, trading a t $1.2155 soon after the Fed decision from about $1.2170 shortly prior. The dollar rose against the yen, trading at 117.20 yen <JPY=> from about 116.90 yen shortly prior.  
   RFECONOMY-INSTANT (UPDATE 4)|LANGEN|Table|ABN|M|D|MNI|E|RBN|U|O|OIL|C|GRO|MTL|SOF   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1102 : Money Supply | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | gvexe : Executive Branch | mcpdbt : Corporate Debt/Bond Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | usny : New York | namz : North America | use : Northeast U.S.   IPCMCE | ECI | FED | CEN | INT | GVD | DBT | WASH | PLCY | US/INSTANT | EMBG:DBT | EMBG:PLCY | EMBG:US/INSTANT | embargokeyE2E2E2E2E2E2   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument LBA0000020060203e21v001yf  



 HDAsset-backeds-Spreads tighter to flat in deal void     WC355 words   PD30 January 2006   ET20:55   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006 Reuters Limited  
   LPNEW YORK, Jan 30 (Reuters) - A dearth of new supply helped spreads in the U.S. asset-backed securities market move slightly tighter or remain unchanged in thin trade on Monday with most market participants away at a conference this week.  

Many or most ABS market participants are attending the American Securitization Forum's ASF 2006 conference that began on Sunday in Las Vegas. More than 3,500 participants were expected to attend the four-day event.  
   TDAn analyst said the ABS primary market will be mostly shut down this week and the secondary market is expected to remain relatively quiet as well.  

The conference is well-timed in that it gives market participants an excuse to stay on the sidelines this potentially turbulent week with the Federal Reserve holding a policy meeting on Tuesday and the government releasing the January employment report on Friday, the analyst said.  

Fed officials are widely expected to raise the federal funds rate another quarter of a percentage point to 4.50 percent.  

Wall Street economists and interest rate futures markets are increasingly expecting the Fed to raise the fed funds rate at its scheduled March meeting to 4.75 percent but are considerably less clear as to what happens after that.  

The median forecast of 45 economists surveyed by Reuters predicted the U.S. Labor Department will report a 240,000 seasonally adjusted gain in nonfarm payrolls in January after a 108,000 increase in December, which is subject to revision in this report. The jobless rate is expected to remain unchanged at 4.9 percent.  

ABS issuance was strong in January.  

Friedman Billings Ramsey estimated that ABS supply as of the end of last week totaled $59.5 billion, which includes non-agency residential mortgage-backed securities. The figure surpasses last January's total supply of $54.3 billion.  

In a research note, the firm also predicted issuance will remain subdued next week as well with many market participants heading to another conference in Phoenix.  
   RFMARKETS-ASSETBACKEDS|LANGEN|Table|ABN|D|E|RBN|U|MNI   INibcs : Business/Consumer Services   NSe1122 : Mortgage Applications/Refinancing | e1202 : Interest Rates | e214 : Sub-national/Local Borrowing | ecat : Economic News | mcpdbt : Corporate Debt/Bond Markets | mmuni : Municipal Debt/Bond Markets | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e21 : Government Finance | e212 : Government Borrowing | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | usny : New York | namz : North America | use : Northeast U.S.   IPCMTG | DBT | INT | MCE | FIN | MUNI | ABS | STIR | ABS/ | EMBG:DBT | embargokeyE1   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument LBA0000020060202e21u00236  



 HDU.S. mortgage bonds tighten before Fed meeting     BYBy Julie Haviv     WC417 words   PD30 January 2006   ET22:17   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006 Reuters Limited  
   LPNEW YORK, Jan 30 (Reuters) - Yield spreads on U.S. mortgage-backed securities tightened versus comparable Treasuries on Monday in lackluster trade, with participants sidelined ahead of Tuesday's Federal Reserve policy meeting.  

"The market has a lot to swallow this week, so people are playing it safe," a trader said. "Any shock from the Fed or from Friday's payroll report could end up reversing some of the market's tightening spree."  
   TDThe Federal Open Market Committee, the Fed's policy-making arm, is widely expected to raise the federal funds rate by a quarter percentage point to 4.50 percent, its 14th consecutive rate hike.  

Market participants will focus on what the Fed says in its statement accompanying the rate move and it will be a subject of intense speculation in financial markets.  

Active 15- and 30-year mortgage-backed securities were 1/32 to 3/32 lower. Bond-equivalent yields on 30-year 5.50 percent coupon MBS ranged from 5.439 percent to 5.732 percent, 0.013 percentage point to 0.019 percentage point higher than late Friday.  

Benchmark 10-year Treasury notes <US10YT=RR> were 4/32 lower to 99-23/32 to yield 4.533 percent on Monday. Yields, which move inversely to price, were up from Friday's 4.515 percent.  

Mortgage bonds have outperformed Treasuries so far in January, but Credit Suisse is maintaining a cautiously neutral stance on the sector.  

An apparent bottoming of interest rate volatility, rich valuations, Tuesday's Fed meeting and the upcoming non-farm payroll report all elevate risks of MBS spreads widening, Credit Suisse said in a recent research report.  

"On the other hand, continued positive momentum toward tighter spreads underscores risks of shorting MBS today," the company said.  

This week the economic data calendar is a busy one, with the ISM manufacturing index for January on Wednesday, fourth-quarter productivity and costs on Thursday and the January employment report on Friday.  

The Treasury Department's quarterly refunding announcement on Wednesday will also garner a lot of attention.  

Separately, Fannie Mae is expected to release its December portfolio summary by Wednesday. The company is expected to show stabilization or possibly growth of its mortgage portfolio in December. It has been pruning its portfolio for months, a move to boost its capital cushion while working through its accounting problems.  
   RFMARKETS-MORTGAGES|LANGEN|Table|ABN|D|E|RBN|U|M   NSe1122 : Mortgage Applications/Refinancing | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcpdbt : Corporate Debt/Bond Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | usny : New York | namz : North America | use : Northeast U.S.   IPCMTG | DBT | INT | MCE | AGN | STIR | CPX | MTG/ | EMBG:DBT | embargokeyE1   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument LBA0000020060202e21u0027s  
 Page 1 of 1      2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.


 

 Page 1      2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.

