 


 HDFT.com site : Emerging markets debt hit by  interest rate  woes.   BYJoanna Chung in London    WC608 words   PD28 March 2006   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPEmerging market bonds suffered a setback on Tuesday as investors became increasingly nervous about rising interest rates in the US and the eurozone and political concerns in a number of local markets.

"There has been a shift in sentiment and it is not surprising given that emerging market valuations have run up such a long way," said Philip Poole, head of emerging markets research at HSBC. As bond prices fell, risk spreads widened: JPMorgan's emerging market bond index was 202 basis points over US Treasuries, compared with a low of 186bp at the beginning of March.
   TDThe latest catalyst for the sell-off came on Tuesday from government bond markets in the US and eurozone, where a trend towards higher interest rates, though gradual, is increasingly threatening to divert cash from emerging market investments.

Data pointing to economic recovery in Germany, the eurozone's largest economy, heightened fears that the European Central Bank might raise interest rates more aggressively. Meanwhile, investors were preparing for what was expected to be a fifteenth consecutive interest rate rise by the US Federal Reserve.

Unsettling political news on Monday from Brazil, the bellwether of emerging market sentiment, had dented sentiment in the asset class. The Brazilian bond maturing in 2040, the most quoted benchmark, widened by 5bp to 358bp on Tuesday.

Though the resignation of Antonio Palocci, the investor-friendly Brazilian finance minister, was anticipated, his replacement, Guido Mantega, is considered less market-friendly, according to analysts. Other country-specific news, including confusion and delay in the appointment of a central bank governor in Turkey and uncertainty about the formation of a coalition government in Ukraine, has hurt market sentiment.

This came on top of increasing worries about the risks associated with the global carry trade, particularly since the cost of funding it has been going up. Investors have been borrowing at low rates in the US, Europe and Japan to buy high-yielding currencies, shares and bonds, usually in emerging market countries.

Yields on US Treasuries have been moving higher in recent months. Though they are still low by historical standards, yields on bonds in the US, as well as the eurozone and the UK are towards the top end of their trading ranges in the past year. Richard Segal, strategist at Argonaftis Capital Management, said: "Emerging markets will remain nervous until there is more positive direction from the major bond markets."

The dangers of the carry trade has been demonstrated by Iceland's woes. The high-yielding krona has suffered a sharp fall in recent weeks amid concerns that the economy is overheating.

In the past month, among the worst-faring local markets has been Mexico. The peso is trading close to 11 pesos to the US dollar, compared with 10.45 pesos at the start of the month. Ten-year local bond rates have risen to about 8.65 per cent, compared to 7.80 per cent.

Some analysts say the upcoming election in Mexico might be causing jitters. But there are growing interest rate differentials: the US is raising rates while Mexico is cutting them. Mr Segal said that the Mexican local markets were most exposed to continued volatility, partly given the preponderance of foreign investors.

Marcel Cassard, global head of emerging markets research at Deutsche Bank, said that external debt markets were "holding up quite well" in contrast to local markets. Mr Poole said: "I don't think it's the end of the positive story for emerging markets, but they may have reached the floor in terms of spreads." 
   RF48015416   INi81402 : Commercial Banking | i831 : Financial Investments | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | iinv : Investing/Securities   NSm12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mntdbt : National Government Debt/Bond Markets | c33 : Contracts/Orders | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTCOM00020060329e23s0003f  



 HDFT.com site : Market Overview: Investors pause ahead of Fed decision.   BYTony Tassell    WC606 words   PD27 March 2006   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPThe traditional caution ahead of an imminent announcement on interest rate policy by the US Federal Reserve prevailed on global financial markets on Monday.

Few participants doubted the outcome of the Fed's policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee two-day meeting that finishes on Tuesday.
   TDThe FOMC is expected to announce its 15th consecutive quarter-percentage point increase in its benchmark Fed funds rate to 4.75 per cent in the first meeting chaired by Ben Bernanke.

But as David Rosenberg, North American economist with Merrill Lynch, noted: "Once again, it is what they say, not what they do that is the most important for markets."

After weeks of sharp swings in market sentiment about when the Fed might stop raising rates, attention will focus on the statement accompanying the announcement of the decision - particularly for signs of Mr Bernanke's imprint on the commentary.

Peter Kretzmer, economist at the Bank of America, said the key question would be whether the Fed would slightly modify or remove forward-looking guidance.

"The continued use of language that provides some forward-looking guidance is a likely signal if an additional move in May is seen," he said. "The absence of this language would be an indication that a pause at 4.75 per cent is likely."

Stephen Lewis, economist at Monument Securities, said the FOMC would need ever more persuading of the wisdom of credit-tightening in the face of economic indicators that were, at best, mixed. "The market seems to be saying that the Federal Reserve will tighten too aggressively in the near term and then relax when it realises that it has gone too far in hiking interest rates," he said.

"There is no reason to expect the Fed to make such a gross policy error. If the market sees a significant risk of Fed overkill, FOMC members can be expected to be even more sensitive to that danger." Interest rates futures were indicating yesterday market expectations of a near 100 per cent probability of a rise in the Fed funds rate to 5 per cent by July.

US Treasuries were little moved ahead of the rate announcement today. By late morning, the yield on the 10-year US Treasury was up 2.4 basis points at 4.699 per cent.

The dollar slipped against the yen and sterling but firmed a little against the euro.

US equities were modestly weaker. By late morning, the Dow Jones Industrial Average was 0.4 per cent lower at 11,240.36 while the S&P 500 slipped 0.3 per cent to 1,299.63. The Nasdaq Composite Index eased 0.1 per cent to 2,311.04.

In Europe, shares retreated on profit-taking despite continued speculation over mergers and acqusitions. The FTSE Eurofirst 300 index fell 0.78 per cent to 1372.34.

Ian Scott, strategist at Lehman Brothers, said European non-financial companies were experiencing margin pressure for the first time in four years.

Margins at the earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation level fell in the fourth-quarter to 16.9 per cent from 17.8 per cent in the same time in 2004.

"There are signs that the unbridled good news emanating from European non-financial companies over the past three years is starting to change," he said.

In Asia, Tokyo stocks were boosted by buying from domestic funds ahead of the start of the new fiscal year for Japan on April 1. The Nikkei 225 Average rose 0.5 per cent to 16,650.10. 
   RF47989377   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTCOM00020060328e23r00017  



 HDFT.com site : Eurozone bond yields hit new highs.   BYJoanna Chung in London    WC339 words   PD29 March 2006   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPEurozone government bond yields hit new multi-year highs on Wednesday in the trading session that followed the interest rate hike by the US Federal Reserve.

The move in the US, coupled with more hawkish sentiment from European Central Bank policymakers, put pressure on bond prices and sent yields higher.
   TDBond prices were already bruised from Tuesday's data showing a jump in business sentiment in both Germany and Italy.

Evidence that economic recovery in the eurozone is gaining momentum has raised fears of more aggressive interest rate rises by the ECB.

"After a few weeks of consolidation, government bond markets have capitulated again thanks to a combination of the strong German Ifo [business sentiment] survey and the Fed's fifteenth consecutive rate hike last night," said David Brown, chief European economist at Bear Stearns.

"Yields should continue to rise from here," he added. In afternoon trading, the yield on the two-year Schatz was up 1.2 basis points to 3.284 per cent and the 10-year Bund yield added 0.1bp to 3.746 per cent.

But earlier, the two-year Schatz yield had risen nearly 2bp to 3.289 percent, its highest since mid-October 2002, adding to the 8bp rise on Tuesday.

The Federal Open Market Committee in the US, meeting under Ben Bernanke's chairmanship for the first time, raised rates for a fifteenth consecutive time by 0.25 per cent to 4.75 per cent on Tuesday.

Although it changed the wording of its economic assessment, the FOMC left policy-related passages of the statement unchanged, leaving the door open for further rate hikes.

Gilts fared better after data showed that UK mortgage lending slowed in February while retail sales remained subdued this month.

But prices were still lower overall and the two-year gilt yield was up 1bp to 4.459 per cent and the 10-year gilt yield rose 1.5bp to 4.385 per cent. 
   RF48031729   INi81401 : Central Banking | i831 : Financial Investments | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | iinv : Investing/Securities   NSm12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mntdbt : National Government Debt/Bond Markets | c33 : Contracts/Orders | c332 : Government Contracts | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | gvbod : Government Bodies | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTCOM00020060330e23t00010  



 HDFT.com site : Markets surprised at pace of strengthening eurozone.   BYTony Tassell    WC610 words   PD28 March 2006   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPSigns of a further strengthening of the eurozone economy provided impetus for global markets on Tuesay as investors awaited the outcome of the US Federal Reserve's meeting on interest rate policy.

Financial markets were taken by surprise by the robustness of the latest survey of German business confidence from the Munich-based Ifo Institute.
   TDThe index rose from 103.4 in last month to 105.4 in March, a level economists said had not been seen since the German reunification boom in early 1991. The rise defied consensus expectations of a decline in the month.

"The obvious risk is that European Central Bank rate hikes may come sooner and may go further than thought before," said Rainer Guntermann, economist at Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein.

Expectations rose that the ECB would raise its benchmark interest rate by a quarter percentage point to 2.75 per cent as early as May and again later to 3 per cent.

The firmer rate outlook was reinforced by news that growth in eurozone M3, the broad money supply measure, accelerated to an annual rate of 8.0 per cent last month, up from 7.6 per cent in January and the fastest since last September. The ECB regards M3 as an indicator of long-term inflation trends.

Other strong economic data from the eurozone included a rise in Italian business confidence to the highest level in five years and an increase in French building permits for the second month in a row.

Reflecting that prospect of higher eurozone rates, the euro rallied against the dollar while bund yields leapt. The shared currency rose about 0.5 per cent against the dollar while the 10-year bund yield jumped 8.4 basis points to 3.728 per cent.

Euribor futures had almost completely priced in a 3.25 per cent ECB benchmark rate by the end of the year and were indicating a moderate probability of a 3.5 per cent rate.

Mr Guntermann said DrKW had been looking for ECB rates to reach 3 per cent by late summer, and 3.5 per cent by the end of next year.

Credit Suisse economists added: "The market is likely to be forced to shift its projected terminal rate for the tightening cycle to 3.50-4.00 per cent. In this environment, 10-year cash yields of 3.70 per cent are simply not adequate compensation for risk."

European shares slid in a relatively lacklustre session as investors waited on news from the two-day meeting of the rate policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee. The FTSE Eurofirst Index declined by 0.5 per cent to 1364.90.

In the US, shares largely drifted ahead of the FOMC announcement. In late morning trade, the S&P 500 was flat at 1,301.44 while the Dow Jones Industrial Average was unchanged at 11,247.23. However the Nasdaq Composite edged 0.1 per cent higher to 2,318.72.

The 10-year US Treasury yield rose 4bps to 4.749 per cent.

In Asia, the Tokyo market advanced on the back of gains in commodity-linked stocks. The Nikkei 225 Average rose 0.2 per cent to 16,690.24.

Brazil's currency, bonds and stocks all came under pressure in a downbeat reaction to the appointment of the country's new finance minister, Guido Mantega. Analysts said the newcomer did not have the same inflation-fighting credentials as his predecessor, Antonio Palocci.

Mr Mantega signalled support for rate cuts, saying Brazil needed "more civilized interest rates that stimulate production and consumption.'' 
   RF48014088   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSmcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | gdip : International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | gvote : Elections | nsur : Survey/Poll | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REgfr : Germany | usa : United States | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTCOM00020060329e23s0001z  



 HDFT.com site : US?keeps rate rises going with 15th move.   BYRalph Atkins in Frankfurt, Scheherazade Daneshkhu in London and Andrew Balls in Washington    WC483 words   PD28 March 2006   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPUS interest rates moved above those in the UK for the first time in five years on Tuesday as the Federal Reserve reacted to rising inflation and the strength of the US economy with its 15th consecutive quarter-point increase to 4.75 per cent.

The US move came as Mervyn King, Bank of England governor, told a parliamentary committee that he expected "a rapidly expanding world economy" to help support consumer demand and that robust public spending growth would sustain UK economic growth at its long-term average of about 2.75 per cent.
   TDHis remarks reinforced expectations that the Bank of England's main interest rate would remain on hold at 4.5 per cent. Mr King said that consumer price inflation would rise above its 2 per cent target in the short-term because of steep gas price increases but that the overall economic picture was "benign".

Mr King's optimism on the world economy coincided with figures showing German business exuberance at a 15-year high, Italian business confidence at a five-year high and US consumer confidence at its highest level in four years.

German business confidence has been boosted by the country's success in export markets, while eurozone credit figures also point to robust economic growth, boosting the case for an early increase in European Central Bank interest rates from 2.5 per cent, perhaps in May.

Sterling weakened against the euro on the strong data, and as Mr King's comments were interpreted as a sign that the Bank of England was in no hurry to change interest rates.

In the US, the first meeting of the policymaking Federal Open Market Committee chaired by Ben Bernanke indicated that the current cycle of interest rate increases was nearing a close, while repeating that some further policy firming may be needed dependent on the incoming data.

In its statement, the FOMC said the economy had rebounded in the first quarter after a weak end to 2005, and that growth "appears likely to moderate to a more sustainable pace".

Sounding a somewhat more confident note on the inflation outlook, the committee said that high energy prices appeared to have had only a "modest" effect on core inflation, at a time when productivity growth had kept labour market inflation in check. It said that inflation expectations remained contained.

But the committee also repeated the warning that rising resource utilisation and elevated energy prices could feed into increased inflation pressure. In a repeat of the language used in its January meeting, it said "some further policy firming may be needed to keep the risks to the attainment of both sustainable economic growth and price stability roughly in balance".

Additional reporting by Bertrand Benoit in Berlin. 
   RF48016257   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | e1101 : Economic Growth | e211 : Government Taxation/Revenue | ecat : Economic News | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | e21 : Government Finance | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations   REeland : England | uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTCOM00020060329e23s0003t  



 HDFT.com site : Lex: US interest rates.   WC321 words   PD29 March 2006   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPFor Ben Bernanke's first meeting as Federal Reserve chairman, actions were never going to speak louder than words. He was virtually locked in to a 15th consecutive interest rate hike. The Fed duly obliged, raising rates by a quarter point to 4.75 per cent. The hope for those poring over each word of the accompanying statement was that it would deliver some clues about Mr Bernanke's future intentions.

There was little to grab on to. The paragraph relating to the outlook for monetary policy was unchanged from last time. The fact that "some further policy firming may be needed to keep the risks to the attainment of both sustainable economic growth and price stability roughly in balance" keep the odds heavily weighted towards the Fed going to at least 5 per cent.
   TDWhere Mr Bernanke did provide an inkling of change was in the Fed's fuller description of the economic backdrop. More detail was added to the recent statements, and there was a clearer line on how the Fed expects economic growth to evolve. After bouncing back strongly in the current quarter from a weak end to 2005 the Fed expects growth to moderate to a more sustainable pace. That is no great surprise but the hint of greater transparency from the Fed is welcome.

The 10-year Treasury yield rose 7.7 basis points to 4.79 per cent, and should continue to inch upwards. But yesterday's rise was as much a reflection of strong consumer confidence figures as a reaction to the Fed's first utterances under Mr Bernanke. While Mr Bernanke's communications are likely to be less Delphic than those of his predecessor, he has started with an emphasis on continuity. Investors will have to wait to see the new chairman's true colours.

- Click here to add your comments- Get Lex by email 
   RF48030013   COfed : Federal Reserve Board   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ecat : Economic News | c314 : Pricing | c31 : Marketing | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTCOM00020060330e23t0000t  



 HDFT.com site : Yields touch multi-year highs.   BYJennifer Hughes in New York, Joanna Chung in London and David Turner in Tokyo    WC481 words   PD29 March 2006   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPGovernment bond yields around the globe touched multi-year highs on Wednesday amid fears of further interest rate rises in both the US and the eurozone, in the wake of Tuesday's latest hike by the US Federal Reserve.

Yields on two-year US Treasuries notes hit a fresh five-year peak at 4.828 per cent, while 10-year yields pushed to 4.810 per cent, their highest since the Fed began its rate rising cycle in June 2004. Although the rate increase, to 4.75 per cent, was fully expected, the central bank hinted at further rises. This wrongfooted some who had expected it to signal a more dovish tone, and sent bonds tumbling on Tuesday. Fed fund futures continued to fall yesterday as investors priced in the risk of higher rates. A move to 5 per cent at the May meeting is now priced in, as is a 25 per cent chance of a rise to 5.25 per cent by the Fed's June meeting.
   TDBy late morning in New York on Wednesday, however, the cash bond market had steadied, leaving yields on two-year notes down 1.2 basis points at 4.795 per cent and 10 year yields off 1.2bp at 4.782 per cent.

Eurozone government bond yields also steadied in late trading, but not before the two-year Schatz hit 3.289 per cent, its highest level since mid-October 2002. In late trading the two-year bond was up 0.6bp to 3.278 per cent and the 10-year Bund yield added 1.4bp to 3.758 per cent.

More hawkish comments from European Central Bank policymakers added to the bearish sentiment, most recently sparked by Tuesday's robust German business sentiment survey.

"After a few weeks of consolidation, government bond markets have capitulated again," said David Brown, chief European economist at Bear Stearns. "Yields should continue to rise from here."

Gilt prices found support from weaker UK mortgage lending and retail sales data, but prices were still lower. The two-year gilt yield rose 1.5bp to 4.465 per cent and the 10-year gilt yield added 0.6bp to 4.376b per cent.

Yields on Japanese government bonds leapt. The 10-year bond yield jumped 7.5bp to 1.775 per cent, the highest since August 2004. The yield on the five-year rose 9bp to 1.295 per cent. Stefan Liiceanu at Barclays Capital said: "Sentiment appears to be becoming increasingly negative, a development that will eventually cause the dip buying that is supporting the long end of the JGB market to dry up. If the economic data expected over the next few days are strong, this may happen sooner rather than later." 
   RF48038257   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSm12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mntdbt : National Government Debt/Bond Markets | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTCOM00020060330e23t00024  



 CLMTuesday's Markets   HDStocks Fall After Fed Lifts Rates --- Quarter-Point Increase to 4.75%, Signals of More Raises to Come Send Clouds Into Investors' Views   BYBy E.S. Browning    WC888 words   PD29 March 2006   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGC1   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 2006, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LPBEN BERNANKE sat down at the interest-rate ivories, but financial markets didn't applaud.

The prices of stocks and bonds fell heavily after the Federal Reserve -- led by Mr. Bernanke, its new chairman -- ended this week's two-day policy meeting with a clear statement that it plans to continue pushing benchmark interest rates higher. The news doused hopes for an early end to rate increases, leaving pundits forecasting at least one more Fed rate move in May, and possibly more later. Investors concluded that the threat of higher rates could weigh on stock prices for weeks, or even months, to come.
   TDThe Dow Jones Industrial Average, which was showing a small gain before the Fed news broke at 2:15 p.m. EST, immediately sagged, finishing down 95.57 points, or 0.85%, at 11154.54. It still is up 4.1% for the year, but is moving away from the record closing high of 11722.98 at which it closed on Jan. 14, 2000.

Especially disturbing to investors was the sight of bond prices heading sharply downward, pushing the yield of the bellwether 10-year Treasury note to 4.788%, its highest level since June 2004.

Higher yields for longer-term bonds presented consumers and many businesses with a double whammy, because the Fed at the same time pushed up short-term interest rates by another quarter percentage point. Market interest rates such as bank rates, credit-card rates and mortgage rates tend to be based either on Treasury yields or on the Fed's target rates. That means that a wide variety of consumers and businesses will see the cost of floating-rate loans rising, and the rates for future fixed-rate borrowing moving up as well.

The Fed, as expected, pushed its target for overnight bank lending to 4.75%, and warned that "some further policy firming" -- Fed-speak for interest-rate increases -- "may be needed to keep the risks to the attainment of both sustainable economic growth and price stability roughly in balance." Most major banks including Bank of America, Wachovia and KeyCorp quickly raised their prime lending rates, base rates for a wide range of loans, to 7.75%.

Investors noted that, despite the arrival of a new Fed chairman, the language on the need for future interest-rate increases was identical to that of the previous statement, when Alan Greenspan was chairman. Mr. Bernanke appeared to be indicating that, on the inflation front, nothing was changing and he was going to be as tough an inflation fighter as his predecessor. Investors took that as a signal that the Fed will definitely raise its target rate one more time, in May, and will decide whether to make further increases depending on the economic data. It once again indicated that it would watch labor costs closely.

More-cautious investors concluded that the Fed is laying the groundwork for more than one interest-rate increase, because the statement also noted that the economy remains strong and that this has "the potential to add to inflation pressures."

"The rate of economic growth has got to slow with the move up in rates," and analysts will probably have to cut their forecasts for corporate profits in coming quarters, said Tim Heekin, director of trading at San Francisco brokerage firm Thomas Weisel Partners. "I am getting more and more concerned about the health of the market, and I am just wondering if we can continue to move up at the pace at which we have been moving up for the past couple of years, in light of these rising rates."

Making things worse, crude-oil futures jumped another $1.91 to $66.07 a barrel, the highest finish in almost two months. Crude is only $3.74, or 5.4%, below the 22-year high of $69.81 hit in August. The sight of surging oil prices weighed on stocks, reinforcing concerns that oil prices will exacerbate Fed inflation fears, making it continue raising rates longer than it otherwise would.

The March consumer-confidence index also came in stronger than expected, contributing to the concerns that the strong economy will provoke more rate increases.

The Standard &Poor's 500-stock Index fell 0.64%, or 8.38 points, to 1293.23, still up 3.6% this year. The Nasdaq Composite Index declined 0.48%, or 11.12 points, to 2304.46, up 4.5% for 2006.

The dollar also advanced, as higher U.S. interest rates would make the U.S. currency more desirable to hold.

In major U.S. market action:

Stocks retreated. Total trading volume for stocks listed on the New York Stock Exchange was 2.18 billion shares, as 1,181 stocks rose and 2,123 fell.

Bond prices declined. The 10-year Treasury note fell 20/32, or $6.25 for each $1,000 invested. The 30-year bond was down 1 2/32 to yield 4.800%.

The dollar strengthened. It traded at 117.98 yen, up from 116.70; the euro fell against the dollar to $1.2009 from $1.2011. 



License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | gvtre : Treasury Department | m11 : Equity Markets | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m131 : Money Markets | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | mntdbt : National Government Debt/Bond Markets | nsum : News Digest | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | gvexe : Executive Branch | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | niwe : IWE Filter   REjap : Japan | usa : United States | asiaz : Asia | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America   IPCPIC | TRE | USG | STT | JPY | NND | TPX | USD | MIM | PMK | TFR | TPT   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument J000000020060329e23t00039  


 CLMAhead of the Tape   HDAhead of the Tape   BYBy Justin Lahart    WC423 words   PD28 March 2006   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGC1   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 2006, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP[Today's Market Forecast]

Clear as Mud
   TDIt's hard to be transparent when the world itself is murky.

"Transparency" (what normal people might call "clarity") is what Wall Streeters expect from newly minted Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke. But so far they've been disappointed.

At a speech in New York last week, many market participants hoped Mr. Bernanke would shed light on when the Federal Reserve might stop raising interest rates. Instead he barely broached the subject -- making skittish investors worry there could more rate increases in the offing than expected. Today, investors await the statement the Fed will release at the conclusion of its policy-setting meeting, again in hopes of clarity. They could be disappointed again.

The problem, says UBS economist James O'Sullivan, has less to do with clarity than it does with Fed policy makers' own uncertainty.

"There is a limit to how much guidance they can provide because frankly they don't know how far they're going to have to go," he says. "Being clear can also mean saying, `I don't know.' "

Traders expect the Fed will raise its overnight target rate to 4.75% from 4.5% today. Interest-rate futures suggest traders expect the Fed to raise rates to 5% when it next meets in May and then take a breather. But the higher rates go, the less clear it becomes they'll need to keep going up, and thus today's uncertainty.

Mr. O'Sullivan points out that in May 2000, Fed policy makers suggested they expected to continue raising rates. That May meeting was, in fact, the last rate increase that year. By early 2001 the Fed was cutting rates.

If the Fed sticks to the statement it made in January, investors will probably ratchet up their rate expectations. If the Fed tones it down, they'll probably stick to their expectation of one more rate increase in May. If the Fed mentions housing's wobbly foundation, they'll start thinking that the Fed's done.

An unforeseen turn in the economy could easily change those expectations. It's a bit of a cliche on Wall Street to say the Fed is "data dependent" -- when isn't it? But at a time when most investors believe it is nearly finished with raising rates, it's probably more true than usual.

---

Please send comments and questions to justin.lahart@wsj.com. 



License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | ecat : Economic News | gvexe : Executive Branch | m11 : Equity Markets | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCPIC | FED | USG | NND | AOT | TFR   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument J000000020060328e23s0002c  


 CLMMonday's Markets   HDStocks Slip Ahead of Bernanke's Comments   BYBy E.S. Browning    WC478 words   PD28 March 2006   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGC1   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 2006, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LPTHE STOCK MARKET is waiting for Bernanke.

Investors are hunkered down until the new Federal Reserve chairman, Ben Bernanke, wraps up his first interest-rate policy meeting today. Although it is considered a foregone conclusion that the Fed will push its benchmark short-term interest rate up another quarter percentage point to 4.75%, marking its 15th consecutive rate increase since June 2004, investors are waiting to see what commentary the new Fed chief will offer.
   TDMr. Bernanke has indicated that he will try to use plain English, in contrast to his predecessor Alan Greenspan, and investors were nervous about what he and his Fed colleagues would say. Some hoped for a sign the Fed plans a pause this spring in its rate-increase program, while others worried that the rate increases could continue into the summer or even longer.

As they dithered, investors yesterday pushed the Dow Jones Industrial Average down 29.86 points, or 0.26%, to 11250.11, still up 5% this year. Other indexes were little changed. Bond prices also declined, pushing bond yields higher, because of similar rate uncertainty. Higher interest rates are bad for existing bonds, because they make new bonds, with their higher rates, more attractive to own. Higher rates hurt stocks by making borrowing more expensive for consumers and businesses.

"People are just waiting for the Fed," said senior stock trader Bob Basel at Citigroup's New York brokerage arm. Investors were doubly nervous, he added, "because Mr. Bernanke is new" and they aren't sure what to expect from him.

Trading volumes were below average, as some investors chose to stay on the sidelines.

The Standard &Poor's 500-stock index edged down 0.10%, or 1.34 points, to 1301.61, up 4.3% for 2006. The Nasdaq Composite index rose 0.12%, or 2.76 points, to 2315.58, up 5% this year.

Outside the U.S., stocks advanced in dollar terms, including new highs for the stock markets of Australia and India. The Dow Jones World Stock Index, excluding U.S. stocks, rose 0.03%, or 0.07 point, to 213.48.

In major U.S. market action:

Stocks were mixed. New York Stock Exchange composite volume was 1.99 billion shares; on the NYSE, 1,423 stocks rose and 1,871 fell.

Bond prices declined. The 10-year Treasury note fell 9/32, or $2.81 for each $1,000 invested, pushing the yield up to 4.707%. The 30-year bond was down 19/32 to yield 4.730%.

The dollar was mixed. Late in New York, the currency traded at 116.70 yen, down from 117.45, while the euro fell against the dollar to $1.2011 from $1.2036. 

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   NSm11 : Equity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | e1202 : Interest Rates | gvtre : Treasury Department | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m131 : Money Markets | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | mntdbt : National Government Debt/Bond Markets | nsum : News Digest | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | gvexe : Executive Branch | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | niwe : IWE Filter   REjap : Japan | usa : United States | asiaz : Asia | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America   IPCTRE | USG | STT | JPY | NND | TPX | USD | MIM | PMK | TFR | TPT   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument J000000020060328e23s0001v  



 CLMCredit Markets   HDTreasury Prices Drop As the Fed Lifts Rates --- Bond Market Takes a Hit As Policy Makers Indicate More Increases Are Likely   BYBy Michael Mackenzie    WC586 words   PD29 March 2006   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGC4   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 2006, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LPTreasurys prices fell across maturities after the Federal Reserve raised its benchmark interest rate and -- to the disappointment of some investors -- indicated it wasn't finished raising rates.

In late trading, the 10-year note was yielding 4.79%, up from 4.71% late Monday. The two-year yield was at 4.80%. When short-term rates are higher than long-term rates, it is known as an inverted yield curve, and has previously signaled a slowing economy.
   TDBut the Fed wasn't deterred by the yield curve as officials, led by Chairman Ben Bernanke, have disputed that interpretation of the inverted yield curve. They argue that this time, other factors are at work, including strong demand by overseas investors for U.S. assets.

The Federal Open Market Committee raised its target for the federal funds rate -- which is what banks charge each other on overnight loans -- by a quarter percentage point to 4.75% at the end of its two-day meeting.

Some bond investors were surprised by the Fed's apparent intention to keep raising rates. "People in the bond market were hoping the statement would indicate the FOMC was close to being finished. But there is no sense that the next meeting will be the last rate hike," said Anton Pil, global head of fixed income at JP Morgan Private Bank in New York.

At 4 p.m., the benchmark 10-year note was down 20/32 point, or $6.25 per $1,000 face value, at 97 24/32. Its yield rose to 4.788% from 4.707% Monday, as yields move inversely to prices. The 30-year bond shed 1 2/32 points to 95 9/32 to yield 4.80%.

"One more rate hike is what investors should be gearing their strategies toward," said Kevin Flanagan, fixed-income strategist at Morgan Stanley in Purchase, N.Y.

Alex Li, bond strategist at Credit Suisse in New York, said he expects selling pressure to continue in maturities of two years and five years. The five-year note sustained the largest losses, with its yield rising more than 0.09 percentage point to 4.78%. The Treasury will sell $14 billion new five-year notes later this week, which hampered prospects for the maturity.

After the Fed's move, banks raised their prime rates -- the base for many consumer loans -- to 7.75% from 7.50%. 


 
                             AUCTION RESULTS 
 
  Here are the results of the Treasury auction of four-week bills. All bids 
are awarded at a single price at the market-clearing yield. Rates are 
determined by the difference between that price and the face value. 
 
Applications .......................................  $20,000,157,000 
Accepted bids ......................................  $43,407,032,000 
Accepted noncompetitively ..........................     $301,007,000 
Foreign Noncompetitively ...........................               $0 
Auction price (Rate) ............................... 99.639889 (4.630%) 
Coupon equivalent ..................................            4.711% 
Bids at market-clearing yld accepted ...............            66.25% 
Cusip number .......................................        912795WZ0 
 
  The bills are dated March 30, 2006 and mature April 27, 2006. 
   

Emerging-Market Bonds

Brazil's debt sold off as investors digested the resignation of Finance Minister Antonio Palocci late Monday.

Brazil's benchmark 2040 global note was bid 15/16 point lower at 128 late in the session, while Brazil's risk premiums on the J.P. Morgan Emerging Markets Bond Index widened by 0.04 percentage point.

-- Matthew Cowley 

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   NSm12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mntdbt : National Government Debt/Bond Markets | e1202 : Interest Rates | gvtre : Treasury Department | m131 : Money Markets | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | gvexe : Executive Branch | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REbraz : Brazil | usa : United States | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | lamz : Latin America | namz : North America | samz : South America   IPCIGV | TRE | USG | NND | TPX | CRD | MIM | TPT   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument J000000020060329e23t0002p  



 CLMCredit Markets   HDRate Rise Likely As Investors Seek Clue on Plateau   BYBy Steven C. Johnson    WC558 words   PD27 March 2006   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGC3   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 2006, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LPInterest rates are set to climb another quarter point this week, and bond investors will be on the watch for any hints about where the rate plateau may lie.

Whether they will get new insight is far from certain, though, despite Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke's stated desire to make monetary policy more transparent.
   TDWhat is more likely, participants say, is a central bank that reiterates after meeting today and tomorrow that interest-rate moves will be tightly linked to economic data.

That would set the stage for yet more of the turbulence bond investors experienced last week, when prices traced a zigzag pattern as the market evaluated and re-evaluated the monetary-policy outlook.

"We've heard Bernanke say he wants to be more transparent, but we also know that Fed governors want to keep their options open, especially when they're near the end or at the inflection point" of a tightening cycle, said David Harris, portfolio manager at Schroder Investment Management in New York.

What is all but certain is a decision to lift the target on the federal-funds rate to 4.75% from 4.5%, the 15th straight meeting with a rate increase since the Fed began tightening policy in mid-2004.

At one point last week, fed-funds futures priced in 92% odds of a move to 5% in May, though a sharp 10.5% decline in February new-home sales reduced that chance to 72% late Friday.

Given the effect that rate moves will have on the economy the next 12 to 18 months, the uncertainty -- and the vanilla-policy statement it should prompt the Fed to issue tomorrow -- is justified, said Quincy Krosby, chief investment strategist at the Hartford Financial Services Group Inc., a money-management firm in Hartford, Conn. In monetary policy, "this is where the science meets the art form," he said, adding that Fed policy makers "will not want to overshoot" by raising rates too much.

"At this stage of the cycle, it's particularly difficult, because we've already started to see signs of a slowdown in housing. This is where past experience counts -- and that's what makes the market even more nervous."

Also on tap this week, the Treasury Department will add new supply in the form of $22 billion in fresh two-year notes and $10 billion in five-year notes, a potential weight on Treasury prices.

Schroder's Mr. Harris said the auctions "provide a few tactical opportunities" but aren't expected to have a sharp effect on prices.

The weekly data calendar is a bit on the thin side in terms of top-tier data, though some said Thursday's weekly jobless claims will be watched for signs of continued expansion, especially in light of evidence pointing to softness in the housing market. Claims fell last week, a sign that labor markets remain on solid footing. Continued strength will signal that "the Fed is going to have to work harder, and that the corporate sector is looking strong enough to pull the economy forward" even as housing cuts into consumer spending, said Jeff Hussey, director of U.S. fixed income at Russell Investment Group in Tacoma, Wash. 

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | gvtre : Treasury Department | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m131 : Money Markets | mntdbt : National Government Debt/Bond Markets | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | gvexe : Executive Branch | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCTRE | USG | NND | TPX | CRD | MIM   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument J000000020060327e23r0001o  



 SEBACK PAGE - FIRST SECTION   HDBen's big outing ISSUE OF THE WEEK: US  FEDERAL RESERVE  MEETS.   BYBy KEVIN ALLISON and EMILIYA MYCHASUK    WC379 words   PD27 March 2006   SNFinancial Times   SCFTFT   EDLondon Ed1   PGPage 18   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPThe new US Federal Reserve chairman Ben Bernanke will preside for the first time over a meeting of the policy making committee this week, with stock market investors nervous in advance. At the two-day Fed meeting, which starts today, policy makers are expected to lift the target on the federal-funds rate - the interest rate banks charge one another on overnight loans - by a quarter percent to 4.75%, This will be the 15th-straight increase since they began lifting rates in June 2004. Mr Bernanke last week delivered a broadly upbeat assessment of the world's largest economy, playing down fears that the flat US yield curve was a portent of doom.
   TD*The Fed's campaign to fight inflation over the past two years has heightened investor sensitivities to economic data. Bill Cara noted there was "much ado" about US housing data, after a strong report on existing homes last Thursday raised concerns about interest rates and affected stock prices, while on Friday, a report showing soft sales of new homes eased worries about rates. billcara.com

*Interest rate futures had recently reflected "a net 76% probability that such a rate hike will take place at the Fed's next meeting in April" noted Adam Kritzer's forexblog.org. "This should come as great news to USD bulls, as the dollar's day of reckoning has surely been postponed by many months, at the very least."

*Doubts about Bernanke's ability to perform were assauged after a speech at the Economic Club of New York last week. "The communication skills of the new chairman is reflective of his readiness. He speaks in the same voice as the new forms of word of mouth. To his intended audiences, Bernanke sounds like someone who knows the current communicative language." superbmomentum .blogspot.com

*Banking on New York property prices holding their value, the new Fed chairman would not want to "mess around with the street and markets", according to New York real estate website urbandigs.com. A small uptick in lending rates could be expected by the middle of April.

By Emiliya Mychasuk and Kevin Allison 
   RF20060327L118.105   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | c152 : Earnings Projections | ecat : Economic News | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTFT000020060327e23r0002l  



 SEFRONT PAGE - FIRST SECTION   HDUS keeps rate rises going with 15th move - Figures show optimism in UK, Italy and Germany.   BYBy RALPH ATKINS, ANDREW BALLS, BERTRAND BENOIT and SCHEHERAZADE DANESHKHU    WC487 words   PD29 March 2006   SNFinancial Times   SCFTFT   EDLondon Ed1   PGPage 1   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPUS interest rates yesterday moved above those in the UK for the first time in five years as the Federal Reserve reacted to rising inflation and the strength of the US economy with its 15th consecutive quarter-point increase to4.75 per cent.

The US move came as Mervyn King, Bank of England governor, told a parliamentary committee that he expected "a rapidly expanding world economy" to help support consumer demand and that robust public spending growth would sustain UK economic growth at its long-term average of about 2.75 per cent.
   TDHis remarks reinforced expectations that the Bank of England's main interest rate would remain on hold at 4.5 per cent. Mr King said that consumer price inflation would rise above its2 per cent target in the short-term because of steep gas price increases but that the overall economic picture was "benign".

Mr King's optimism on the world economy coincided with figures showing German business exuberance at a 15-year high, Italian business confidence at a five-year high and US consumer confidence at its highest level in four years.

German business confidence has been boosted by the country's success in export markets, while eurozone credit figures also point to robust economic growth, boosting the case for an early increase in European Central Bank interest rates from 2.5 per cent, perhaps in May.

Sterling weakened against the euro on the strong data, and as Mr King's comments were interpreted as a sign that the Bank of England was in no hurry to change interest rates.

In the US, the first meeting of the policymaking Federal Open Market Committee chaired by Ben Bernanke indicated that the current cycle of interest rate increases was nearing a close, while repeating that some further policy firming may be needed dependent on the incoming data.

In its statement, the FOMC said the economy had rebounded in the first quarter after a weak end to 2005, and that growth "appears likely to moderate to a more sustainable pace".

Sounding a somewhat more confident note on the inflation outlook, the committee said that high energy prices appeared to have had only a "modest" effect on core inflation, at a time when productivity growth had kept labour market inflation in check. It said that inflation expectations remained contained.

But the committee also repeated the warning that rising resource utilisation and elevated energy prices could feed into increased inflation pressure. In a repeat of the language used in its January meeting, it said "some further policy firming may be needed to keep the risks to the attainment of both sustainable economic growth and price stability roughly in balance".

Additional reporting by Bertrand Benoit in Berlin. 
   RF20060329L101.152   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | npag : Page-One Story | ncat : Content Types   REuk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTFT000020060329e23t00012  



 HDUPDATE 1-Bank of Israel ups key rate by 1/4-point to 5 pct     WC490 words   PD27 March 2006   ET18:31   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006 Reuters Limited  
   LP(Adds comments from Bank of Israel statement, background)  

JERUSALEM, March 27 (Reuters) - The Bank of Israel said on Monday it was raising its key lending rate by a quarter of a percentage point to 5.0 percent, citing an increase in demand from a rapidly growing economy and the need to keep pace with U.S. interest rate hikes.  
   TDThe move was widely expected in the wake of a higher than expected 0.6 percent jump in February consumer prices and came after the central bank surprised financial markets by leaving the key rate unchanged a month ago.  

The central bank said in a statement accompanying its rate action that the rise in consumer demand "holds the potential for increasing the rate of inflation and accelerating the rise of nominal wages."  

Israel's rate increase comes a day before the Federal Reserve is predicted to nudge U.S. short-term rates by a quarter point to 4.75 percent.  

Bank of Israel Governor Stanley Fischer has said Israeli rates must be above U.S. rates to prevent an outflow of money from Israel, which would weaken the shekel <ILS=> and fuel inflationary pressures.  

"The Bank of Israel considers the interest-rate differential vis-a-vis abroad to be one of the important factors affecting the exchange rate and hence inflationary pressures," the central bank said. "This is a factor that contributes to the decision to raise the interest rate for April."  

It also cited rising European interest rates.  

The Bank of Israel stressed, however, that it did not consider the interest rate differential with the U.S. and Europe as necessary to achieve its inflation target of between 1 and 3 percent a year.  

Inflation in 2006 is expected at around 2 percent after a 2.4 percent rate in 2005.  

The central bank noted that those expectations from the capital markets assume that interest rates will continue to rise.  

Israeli short-term borrowing costs have risen by 1.5 percentage points since the current rate hike cycle began in late September.  

Most economists believe that the Bank of Israel will continue to raise the lending rate until it reaches between a quarter and a half-point above the U.S. federal funds rate once the Fed stops its tightening cycle ends.  

Last week, the International Monetary Fund said in a report that Israel's interest rate is "appropriately accommodative" and viewed neutrality at 5.25 percent.  

The Bank of Israel also said that it expects that the next government -- following Tuesday's general election -- to continue to pursue responsible fiscal policies.  

The shekel gained to 4.6787 per dollar after the rate increase, which is effective on April 1, from its official rate of 4.6850.  
   RFECONOMY-ISRAEL-RATES (UPDATE 1)|LANGEN|ABN|M|E|RBN|D|MD|BNX|RNP|DNP   NSe1201 : Central Bank Intervention | e1202 : Interest Rates | eec : European Union | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mcpdbt : Corporate Debt/Bond Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations   REdevgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | eecz : European Union Countries | israel : Israel | meastz : Middle East | usa : United States | asiaz : Asia | eurz : Europe | medz : Mediterranean | namz : North America | wasiaz : Western Asia   IPCCEN | MCE | INT | GVD | DBT | EU   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument LBA0000020060327e23r001gy  



 SECOMMENT AND ANALYSIS   HDA 'subversive' Bernanke looks around for what to say CENTRAL BANKING: The Fed lags best practice on transparency and its new chairman has to choose how to communicate.   BYBy ANDREW BALLS    WC1,055 words   PD28 March 2006   SNFinancial Times   SCFTFT   EDLondon Ed1   PGPage 17   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPAs a neophyte Federal Reserve governor, Ben Bernanke joked in a speech that suggesting the Fed could learn from the way other central banks operated was "slightly subversive".

Three years later, the one-time iconoclast is at the institution's helm and the formal agenda for today's meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee - the first under his chairmanship - includes an item on the lessons to be derived from abroad about transparency and clarity in communications.
   TDOnce, such a discussion would have been inconceivable. Secrecy was assumed to allow a central bank to have a bigger impact, by surprising the market and causing abrupt changes in securities pricing. In recent decades, however, there has been a shift in the way practitioners think about monetary policy.

Modern central bankers believe its importance lies in guiding market expectations on the path of policy rates over time, which in turn has an impact on long-term bond yields and other securities.

Banks around the world are now engaged in a decorous competition to demonstrate their superior communication skills. Richard Lambert, a former editor of the Financial Times who has just stepped down from the Bank of England's monetary policy committee, said in a recent speech that "part of the fun of the job is the polite point-scoring that goes on between different institutions" about which one is most clear in its strategy and communications.

The Fed took big strides towards greater openness during Alan Greenspan's long tenure as chairman. Recent examples include the earlier publication of the minutes of the FOMC's meetings, the longer two-year forecasts provided in the February monetary policy report and - since August 2003 - the forward-looking language on the likely course for the federal funds rate in the statements issued after its meetings.

But while the Fed has become much more transparent, it has not led the way. A study by Sylvester Eijffinger of Tilburg University and Petra Geraats of Cambridge University, published in the latest volume of the European Journal of Political Economy, found that the Reserve Bank of New Zealand, the Swedish Riksbank and the Bank of England were the most transparent central banks.

Next came the Bank of Canada, the European Central Bank and the Fed. Bringing up the rear were the Reserve Bank of Australia, the Bank of

Japan and the Swiss National Bank.

The Fed was found to lag best practice in a number of areas, including a relative lack of clarity over its objectives, which leaves investors more tea-leaf reading to do in determining what the central bank is trying to achieve.

Some central banks are more transparent than the Fed because, to put it bluntly, they have to be. The Fed has a high level of credibility and an excellent record over the past quarter-century.

The Bank of England, to take a stark example, introduced its highly transparent approach to policymaking and its quarterly inflation reports in the aftermath of sterling's ejection from the European Exchange Rate Mechanism in 1992, when the credibility of British macroeconomic policymaking lay in tatters.

Nor is there a one-size-fits-all approach. The news conferences conducted by Jean-Claude Trichet, president of the ECB, in part reflect the fact that the eurozone institution chooses not to publish the voting records or the minutes of its meetings, perhaps to prevent exposing the representatives of its 12 member countries to such detailed scrutiny from their domestic audiences.

"Communication is culturally and politically specific," says Stephen Cecchetti, professor of economics at Brandeis University. "Ben is not going to start giving a monthly news conference."

Adam Posen, a fellow at the Institute for International Economics in Washington, currently on sabbatical at the Bank of England, says the lesson for the Fed from foreign central banks is that it should "narrow the role" of the mandate to inflation and macroeconomic stabilisation. "An inflation target can do this - not a rigid target you always hit but one you aim for over time and where you explain deviations," Mr Posen says. "This provides more accountability than simply going to Congress and saying 'trust me'."

There is little doubt that introducing a formal inflation objective is Mr Bernanke's ultimate goal. It offers the best route to guiding market expectations, providing a clearer framework for explaining monetary policy decisions and shaping long-term inflation expectations.

What is on the agenda for today, however, is improving the way the Fed communicates its decisions. One option is to introduce a longer statement following its meetings, including some detail about the committee's economic forecasts. A possible model here is the Bank of Canada, which issues statements that relate recent economic data to its economic forecasts.

If the Fed's forecasts are to play a more central role in explaining policymaking, a natural development would be for it to start publishing its projections on a quarterly basis rather than the current twice a year. More scrutiny of the assumptions underlying those forecasts then becomes inevitable.

So how to select the path for short-term interest rates that the bank will use in assessing the outlook?

Some academic economists argue that if the central bank's job is to influence investors' medium-term expectations for short-term rates, it should publish its own expected path for policy rates, rather than its assessment of the market's expectations.

That is probably too radical a suggestion for a central bank still mulling over the need for greater clarity on its inflation objective. But there is international precedent. Norges Bank, the Norwegian central bank, provides a projected path for its policy rate in its inflation reports and an explanation of the criteria used.

"Any interest-rate plan that you do is based on current information and the current best forecast. Some people are concerned that a policy forecast will be seen as a commitment. But anyone in the know would understand that it is conditional," says Lars Svensson, a professor at Princeton University. "If the Fed is looking for lessons from abroad, it should go straight to Norway."

Andrew Balls 
   RF20060328L117.127   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | cbestp : Best Practice | gvbod : Government Bodies | nanl : Analysis | c41 : Management Issues | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter   REuk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTFT000020060328e23s0002h  



 SELEX COLUMN   HDBen's first time - THE LEX COLUMN.   WC317 words   PD29 March 2006   SNFinancial Times   SCFTFT   EDUSA Ed2   PGPage 14   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPUS interest rates

For Ben Bernanke's first meeting as Federal Reserve chairman, actions were never going to speak louder than words. He was virtually locked in to a 15th consecutive interest rate hike. The Fed duly obliged, raising rates by a quarter point to 4.75 per cent. The hope for those poring over each word of the accompanying statement was that it would deliver some clues about Mr Bernanke's future intentions.
   TDThere was little to grab on to. The paragraph relating to the outlook for monetary policy was unchanged from last time. The fact that "some further policy firming may be needed to keep the risks to the attainment of both sustainable economic growth and price stability roughly in balance" keep the odds heavily weighted towards the Fed going to at least 5 per cent.

Where Mr Bernanke did provide an inkling of change was in the Fed's fuller description of the economic backdrop. More detail was added to the recent statements, and there was a clearer line on how the Fed expects economic growth to evolve. After bouncing back strongly in the current quarter from a weak end to 2005 the Fed expects growth to moderate to a more sustainable pace. That is no great surprise but the hint of greater transparency from the Fed is welcome.

The 10-year Treasury yield rose 7.7 basis points to 4.79 per cent, and should continue to inch upwards. But yesterday's rise was as much a reflection of strong consumer confidence figures as a reaction to the Fed's first utterances under Mr Bernanke. While Mr Bernanke's communications are likely to be less Delphic than those of his predecessor, he has started with an emphasis on continuity. Investors will have to wait to see the new chairman's true colours. 
   RF20060329U214.800   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | nanl : Analysis | ncat : Content Types   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTFT000020060329e23t0006c  



 HDMorning FI Analysis: EGBs Softer On Fed Decision, ECB Comments     WC1,099 words   PD29 March 2006   ET09:32   SNMarket News International   SCMARNEW   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006. Market News International, Inc.  
   TD

     LONDON (MNI) - European Government bonds extended losses at the 
open on Wednesday and risk further weakness as markets digest hawkish 
comments from ECB Governing Council member Yves Mersch and also 
implications of the Fed's policy statement, which accompanied the well 
expected 25bps rate hike in Fed's funds rate. 

     The attention turns to the $14.0bln 5-year Note auction and 
re-opening of the Sept 2035 BTPei for around E750mln. 

     The Federal Reserve raised its key Fed funds rate by 25bps to 
4.75%, which was its 15th consecutive rate hike since the Fed embarked 
on its tightening campaign in June 2004, taking the rate to its highest 
level since March 2001. More importantly, this was the first rate hike 
since Ben Bernanke took over as Fed Chairman. 

     This hike was well expected, and as normal words spoke larger than 
actions, with the focus on the accompanying statement, which signalled 
that it may not be through with raising its Fed funds rate. 

     The Fed said that whilst "economic growth has rebounded strongly in 
the current quarter", the economy "appears likely to moderate to a more 
sustainable pace." 

     Also dovish was "as yet, the run-up in the prices of energy and 
other commodities appears to have had only a modest effect on core 
inflation, ongoing productivity gains have helped to hold the growth of 
unit labor costs in check". The Fed also reiterated that inflation 
expectations remain contained but added that recent increases in the 
price of oil and other commodities "have the potential to add to 
inflation pressures." 

     However, the key part of the statement is in the concluding 
paragraph, where the Fed reiterated what it said at the January 31 FOMC 
meeting that "some further policy firming may be needed to keep the 
risks to the attainment of both sustainable economic growth and price 
stability roughly in balance." This suggests that future interest rate 
policy will be largely data dependent. 

     US Treasuries fell following the Fed move, with the longer-dated 
issues underperforming, in turn dis-inverting the US Treasury curve. The 
Fed funds rate now implies a 88% chance of another 25bps rate hike at 
the May 10 FOMC meeting, which is up from 74% probability pre-March FOMC 
meeting. If there is a pause at the May 10 FOMC meeting, the Fed funds 
strip is fully pricing in 5.00% rate at the June 29 FOMC meeting. 
Interestingly, the strip suggests the peak to be around 5.11% by 
November 2006. 

     "The latest Fed action would seem to make a further 25 basis point 
increase in the funds rate to 5% highly likely at either the May 10 or 
June 29 meeting. And there is no predisposition to stop at 5%, although 
it is certainly possible the FOMC will pause at that point", according 
to MNIs Steve Beckner. The eventual peak of the funds rate in this 
credit cycle will depend, as officials have made clear, on incoming 
data, adds Beckner. 

     Attention now turns to the $14bln 5-year auction on Wednesday. This 
issue was last sold on February 23 also for $14.0bln and was then 
awarded at 4.622% rate and covered 2.18 times vs 2.10 cover ratio at the 
previous auction on January 11. 

     However, the breakdown of the bidding participation was also far 
from impressive, and showed that indirect accounts took down $2.957bln 
or 21.3% of the sale vs 28.5% previous. This is the lowest awarded to 
indirect accounts since August 2005, which was then awarded at 22%. 
However, this comes as no surprise given the auction raised all new 
cash, which may have deterred indirect bidders. Direct bidders took down 
1.3% of the sale. The primary dealers took 77.4% of the paper. 

     Interestingly, this was the first 5-year sale to settle at the 
month-end since 1998, and once again has a month-end settlement -- thus, 
there are no offsetting cash flows into the Street that will encourage 
buying. 

     Overnight, JGBs ended session sharply lower across the curve, 
weighed by growing concerns of higher global interest rates, but the 
Nikkei-225 index closed at a 67-month high at 16,938, up 248pts (+1.5%) 
on economic growth optimism. The benchmark JGB 10-year yield rose to 
1.780% -- their highest level in 14 months. However, traders warned that 
the sharp moves in JGBs and the exaggerated volumes were in large part 
due to book-squaring and positioning ahead of Friday's financial year 
close. 

     In terms of European events for Wednesday attention turns to 
Spanish service sector employment and sales data at 0700GMT. 

     A raft of UK data at 0830GMT includes final M4 money supply for 
February and lending data for February along with the third release of 
Q4 GDP and Q4 balance of payments data. 

     The GDP data should be unrevised at 0.6% q/q, 1.8% y/y, while the 
current account deficit is seen falling to stg6.8 billion. 0930 GMT sees 
the Swiss KOF leading indicator, while further UK data includes the 
March CBI distributive trades survey at 1000GMT. 

     ECB Executive Board member Jose Manuel Gonzalez-Paramo is due to 
speak in Madrid from 1030GMT, while other speakers today include Norges 
Bank Deputy Governor Jarle Bergo. 

     US events start at 1200GMT with the MBA Mortgage Application Index 
for the March 24 week. Canadian payroll employment for January is also 
due at 1330GMT. 

     A series of US speakers for Wednesday starts at 1400GMT, when 
Richmond Fed President Jeffrey Lacker is due to speak at an economics of 
payments conference at the New York Fed. There are also introductory 
remarks at from 1245GMT by New York Fed President Timothy Geithner. Also 
at 1400GMT, Fed Governor Susan Schmidt Bies is due to deliver a keynote 
speech at an operational risk conference in New York, while US Treasury 
Under Secretary for International Affairs Tim Adams is also due to 
testify on economic relations with China, before the Senate Finance 
Committee. Deputy US Trade Representative Karan Bhatia also testifies 
from 1500GMT. Meanwhile, Treasury Secretary John Snow is due to address 
the Edison Electric Institute spring meeting from 1435GMT. 

     The weekly crude oil stocks data is due at 1530GMT. 

     Later on, from 1805GMT, Bank of Canada Governor David Dodge is due 
to speak about global imbalances to the New York Association for 
Business Economics in New York, which will be followed by a Q&A session. 

-- London bureau: +4420 7634 1655; e-mail: nshamim@marketnews.com  
   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBMarket News International, Inc.   ANDocument MARNEW0020060329e23t00057  



 HDSummary Box: Fed boosts rate again     BYBy The Associated Press     WC84 words   PD28 March 2006   ET23:16   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.  
   LPFIVE-YEAR HIGH: The Federal Reserve boosted a key interest rate to 4.75 percent, the highest level in five years and the 15th consecutive quarter-point move.  

NO SURPRISE: Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke had said he planned to continue the policies of his predecessor, Alan Greenspan, who favored increasing rates in baby steps to give investors time to adjust.  
   TDCONSUMER RATES: There now will be higher interest rates for consumers and businesses.  
   RF7   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagdsa | sel----- | catw   IPDAP National News | Washington | Fed Interest Rates Summary Box | D8GKQFCO0   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020060328e23s003k2  



 HDNew chief, same plan as Fed resumes rate-raising campaign     BYBy JEANNINE AVERSA     CRAP Economics Writer   WC889 words   PD29 March 2006   ET01:06   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.  
   LPWASHINGTON (AP) - The Federal Reserve's new boss, Ben Bernanke, has the same concern as the old boss -- that inflation could flare up. So interest rates are likely to move higher.  

Bernanke, at his first meeting as Fed chairman, boosted borrowing costs to a five-year high and hinted that an additional interest rate increase could be in store. In doing so, Bernanke stuck to the script written by his predecessor, Alan Greenspan, who had run the central bank for 18 1/2 years.  
   TD"The more things change, the more they remain the same," observed economist Joel Naroff, president of Naroff Economic Advisors.  

Wrapping up a two-day meeting Tuesday, Bernanke and his Fed colleagues struck a mostly positive tone, saying the economy "rebounded strongly" in the January-to-March quarter from an end-of-year lull. But Fed policymakers raised concerns about the potential for inflation to take off.  

In a unanimous decision, the Fed raised its key interest rate -- the federal funds rate -- by one-quarter of percentage point, to 4.75 percent. This rate, which is the interest that banks charge each other on overnight loans, affects other rates charged to consumers and businesses.  

Commercial banks reacted by lifting their prime lending rate -- for certain credit cards, home equity lines of credit and other loans -- by a corresponding amount, to 7.75 percent  

Both the prime rate and the funds rate are at their highest since spring 2001.  

Bernanke presided over his first meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee, the group that sets interest rates, and continued the gradual rate-raising campaign set in motion by Greenspan.  

It was the 15th such increase since the Fed started tightening credit in June 2004.  

On Wall Street, stocks tumbled as investors expressed disappointment that more rate increases could be in the offing. The Dow Jones industrials lost 95.57 points to close at 11,154.54.  

Some economists and investors had hoped Bernanke would indicate that Tuesday's increase was the last; he did not.  

"The committee judges that some further policy firming may be needed" to keep inflation and the economy on an even keel, policymakers said in a statement after their meeting. That matched the language issued after the previous Fed meeting on Jan. 31 -- Greenspan's last.  

Attention now turns to the next meeting, on May 10.  

"The statement suggests that we will see another rate hike in early May to ensure that the inflation genie stays in the bottle," said Lynn Reaser, chief economist at Bank of America's Investment Strategies Group.  

"The Fed under Mr. Bernanke gave some fairly clear guidance that the Fed is not yet quite through raising rates. But we do believe there is a light at the end of the tunnel," Reaser said.  

Many economists believe the Fed's rate-raising campaign will end this year.  

Some predict a quarter-point jump in May, with the Fed then moving to the sidelines. Others believe the funds rate could rise to 5.5 percent by this summer before the Fed would stop.  

The Fed is holding the door open to an additional increase because of concerns about inflation picking up.  

An improving job market and stepped-up production "in combination with the elevated prices of energy and other commodities have the potential to add to inflation pressures," policymakers said.  

Thus far, "the run-up in the prices of energy and other commodities appears to have had only a modest effect" on the prices of most goods and services other than energy and food, the Fed said.  

Until the Greenspan-led campaign, the funds rate stood at a 46-year low of 1 percent as the central bank sought to rescue the economy following the bursting of the stock market bubble, the 2001 recession, the Sept. 11 attacks and accounting scandals that rocked Wall Street.  

With the economy back on its feet, the Fed has lifted rates back to more normal levels.  

"Economic growth has rebounded strongly in the current quarter, but appears likely to moderate to a more sustainable pace," the Fed said Tuesday.  

Analysts predict economic growth of 4.5 percent or higher in the current January-to March period. A slowdown in the final quarter of 2005 "seems largely to have reflected temporary or special factors," the Fed said.  

Separately, Americans' optimism in the economy rebounded in March, climbing to a nearly four-year high.  

The Conference Board reported Tuesday that its consumer confidence index rose to 107.2. That was up from a reading of 102.7 in February.  

Bernanke took over the Fed on Feb. 1 after Greenspan's 18-plus-year run. Bernanke, who was an economics professor at Princeton and chairman of President Bush's Council of Economic Advisers, is leading the Fed at a time of concerns about the slowing housing market and bloated budget and trade deficits.  

For now, though, Bernanke's message on the economy is mostly encouraging. "He's saying the economy is healthy. Inflation is OK for now, but it could become a problem, so we're not done raising rates yet," said Stuart Hoffman, chief economist at PNC Financial Services Group.  

------  

On the Net:  

Federal Reserve:  http://www.federalreserve.gov/ 
   RF7   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagdsp | sel----- | catw   IPDAP National News | Washington | Fed Interest Rates | D8GKS2UG0   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020060328e23s00130  



 HDBernanke gets his first crack at interest rates on Tuesday     BYBy JEANNINE AVERSA     CRAP Economics Writer   WC621 words   PD27 March 2006   ET21:09   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.  
   LPWASHINGTON (AP) - As Ben Bernanke takes the chairman's seat, Federal Reserve watchers wonder how many more interest rate increases are in store.  

Bernanke and his Fed colleagues are expected to boost America's borrowing costs yet again at the end of their two-day meeting Tuesday. And analysts will be searching for clues about where the central bank is headed after that.  
   TDUnder former chief Alan Greenspan, the Fed has been tightening credit in steady, quarter-percentage point steps since June 2004 to keep the economy and inflation on an even keel. Many economists believe the Fed will end its rate-raising campaign this year, but they don't know when and they don't think even Fed officials know.  

"It is difficult for the Fed because there are all these crosscurrents," said Lynn Reaser, chief economist at Bank of America's Investment Strategies Group.  

For instance, the housing market is slowing. If that were to crimp consumer spending and thus overall economic activity, the Fed would move to the sidelines sooner rather than later.  

At the same time, there are concerns that an improving jobs market could lead to rapid wage gains that --if not blunted by other economic forces -- could spark inflation. There's also concern that elevated energy prices could feed into higher costs for other goods and services, worsening the inflation environment. Under those scenarios, higher rates would be warranted.  

And, there is the "conundrum," as Greenspan put it, on why mortgage and other long-term rates have stayed low when short-term rates were rising.  

Bernanke last week said there are a number of forces could be behind the low long-term rates, and each possible explanation would carry a different implication for the Fed's interest-rate policy. One Bernanke theory, for instance, is that there's been global excess of savings relative to desired investment. That, he said, might mean the Fed would want to have short-term rates lower than they would otherwise be.  

On the other hand, if long-term rates are low because of factors such as strong demand for long-term bonds from pension funds, then short-term rates would need to be higher, he said recently.  

Against that backdrop, some economists believe Fed policy-makers will shape their statement to give themselves plenty of leeway in the months ahead.  

"I think the Fed will get rid of the reference about what to do in the future," said Mark Zandi, chief economist at Moody's Economy.com. "I think they will make the statement as plain vanilla as possible, and they won't try to send a strong signal one way or the other," he said.  

At Greenspan's last meeting, on Jan. 31, the Fed bumped up a key short-term rate and said that "some further policy firming may be needed."  

Economists predict the Fed on Tuesday will boost the funds rate, the interest that banks charge each other on overnight loans, by one-quarter percentage point, to 4.75 percent. That would mark the 15th increase of that size since June 2004.  

In response, commercial banks would boost their prime lending rate -- for certain credit cards, home equity lines of credit and other loans -- by a corresponding amount to 7.75 percent.  

Those moves would leave borrowing costs at their highest in just about five years.  

"Ben Bernanke seems like he is going to continue the legacy of Alan Greenspan and set himself up as being very staunch on inflation," said Victor Li, associate professor of economics at Villanova University.  

------  

On the Net:  

Federal Reserve:  http://www.federalreserve.gov/ 
   RF7   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagdsp | sel----- | catw   IPDAP National News | Washington | Fed Interest Rates | D8GK3H080   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020060327e23r002ys  



 HDNew Fed chief Bernanke gets his first crack at interest rates on Tuesday     BYBy JEANNINE AVERSA     CRAP Economics Writer   WC624 words   PD27 March 2006   ET21:01   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.  
   LPWASHINGTON (AP) - As Ben Bernanke takes the chairman's seat, Federal Reserve watchers wonder how many more interest rate increases are in store.  

Bernanke and his Fed colleagues are expected to boost America's borrowing costs yet again at the end of their two-day meeting Tuesday. And analysts will be searching for clues about where the central bank is headed after that.  
   TDUnder former chief Alan Greenspan, the Fed has been tightening credit in steady, quarter-percentage point steps since June 2004 to keep the economy and inflation on an even keel. Many economists believe the Fed will end its rate-raising campaign this year, but they don't know when and they don't think even Fed officials know.  

"It is difficult for the Fed because there are all these crosscurrents," said Lynn Reaser, chief economist at Bank of America's Investment Strategies Group.  

For instance, the housing market is slowing. If that were to crimp consumer spending and thus overall economic activity, the Fed would move to the sidelines sooner rather than later.  

At the same time, there are concerns that an improving jobs market could lead to rapid wage gains that --if not blunted by other economic forces -- could spark inflation. There's also concern that elevated energy prices could feed into higher costs for other goods and services, worsening the inflation environment. Under those scenarios, higher rates would be warranted.  

And, there is the "conundrum," as Greenspan put it, on why mortgage and other long-term rates have stayed low when short-term rates were rising.  

Bernanke last week said there are a number of forces could be behind the low long-term rates, and each possible explanation would carry a different implication for the Fed's interest-rate policy. One Bernanke theory, for instance, is that there's been global excess of savings relative to desired investment. That, he said, might mean the Fed would want to have short-term rates lower than they would otherwise be.  

On the other hand, if long-term rates are low because of factors such as strong demand for long-term bonds from pension funds, then short-term rates would need to be higher, he said recently.  

Against that backdrop, some economists believe Fed policy-makers will shape their statement to give themselves plenty of leeway in the months ahead.  

"I think the Fed will get rid of the reference about what to do in the future," said Mark Zandi, chief economist at Moody's Economy.com. "I think they will make the statement as plain vanilla as possible, and they won't try to send a strong signal one way or the other," he said.  

At Greenspan's last meeting, on Jan. 31, the Fed bumped up a key short-term rate and said that "some further policy firming may be needed."  

Economists predict the Fed on Tuesday will boost the funds rate, the interest that banks charge each other on overnight loans, by one-quarter percentage point, to 4.75 percent. That would mark the 15th increase of that size since June 2004.  

In response, commercial banks would boost their prime lending rate -- for certain credit cards, home equity lines of credit and other loans -- by a corresponding amount to 7.75 percent.  

Those moves would leave borrowing costs at their highest in just about five years.  

"Ben Bernanke seems like he is going to continue the legacy of Alan Greenspan and set himself up as being very staunch on inflation," said Victor Li, associate professor of economics at Villanova University.  

------  

On the Net:  

Federal Reserve:  http://www.federalreserve.gov/ 
   RF7   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPCtagpf0wcat | sel----- | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | NA FIN ECO US Fed Interest Rates | D8GK3DCO0   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020060327e23r002zk  



 HDFed boosts key  interest rate  for 15th time     BYBy MARTIN CRUTSINGER     CRAP Economics Writer   WC668 words   PD28 March 2006   ET23:17   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.  
   LPWASHINGTON (AP) - The Federal Reserve on Tuesday boosted a key interest rate to the highest level in five years as new Chairman Ben Bernanke followed the Alan Greenspan inflation-fighting formula.  

The action, the 15th consecutive quarter-point move, left the federal funds rate at 4.75 percent, its highest level since April 2001.  
   TDFed officials, who were holding their first interest rate meeting under Bernanke, left the door open for further rate increases although private economists believe only one or two more rate hikes are likely.  

The quarter-point rate hike had been widely expected. Bernanke has emphasized since being chosen by President George W. Bush that he planned to continue Greenspan's approach toward setting interest rates. That approach was characterized by baby steps aimed at giving markets and investors plenty of time to adjust.  

"Mr. Bernanke has chosen incrementalism over radical change in his first meeting," said Ian Shepherdson, chief U.S. economist at High Frequency Economics, a consulting firm.  

"There is no fundamental change from Mr. Greenspan," said David Jones, chief economist at DMJ Advisors, another firm.  

Jones said the only small difference was in an expanded paragraph that went into greater detail about the Fed's views on how the economy is performing.  

The Fed said economic growth had "rebounded strongly" and the run-up in the price of energy and other commodities had had only a "modest effect on core inflation."  

Jones predicted the Fed would raise rates one more time to 5 percent and then stop.  

On Wall Street, investors pushed stocks lower following the Fed announcement, expressing disappointment that the central bank did not send a stronger signal that the rate hikes would be ending soon.  

The Fed's latest move will mean higher interest rates for both consumers and businesses. KeyCorp was the first bank to announce it was raising its prime lending rate by a similar quarter-point to 7.75 percent. The prime is the benchmark for millions of business and consumer loans.  

In its statement, the Fed sounded at an upbeat note about the current business climate, saying "economic growth has rebounded strongly in the current quarter but appears likely to moderate to a more sustainable pace."  

The statement retained language used last time that "some further policy firming may be needed." That was seen by financial markets as a signal that further rate hikes could occur.  

When the central bank began tightening credit conditions in June 2004, the prime rate stood at 4 percent and the federal funds rate was at 1 percent, both the lowest levels since the late 1950s when Dwight D. Eisenhower was president.  

Those unusually low levels were reached as the central bank beginning in 2001 worked to protect the economy from the blows dealt by a bursting stock market bubble, the 2001 recession, terrorist attacks and a prolonged period of job losses even after the economy began to recover in November of that year.  

The Fed's goal has been to reach a point where interest rates are neither stimulating nor depressing economic growth.  

Many analysts believe the Fed is very close to that level but may feel the need to push the funds rate up one more time to 5 percent from moving to the sidelines for the rest of the year.  

However, other analysts who are more worried about inflation pressures say the Fed may feel the need to boost rates not only at the next meeting on May 10 but also at perhaps two more meetings after that, leaving the funds rate at 5.5 percent.  

Greenspan retired after 18 1/2 years at the Fed. Bernanke was nominated by Bush to succeed him. Bernanke had been an economics professor at Princeton specializing in monetary policy before serving as a Fed board member from 2002 to 2005 when Bush tapped him to be chairman of the White House Council of Economic Advisers.  
   RF7   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPCtagpf1wcat | sel----- | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | NA FIN ECO US Fed Interest Rates | D8GKQFR81   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020060328e23s000y8  



 HDHK banks raise rates but may be close to peaking     BYBy Susan Fenton     WC466 words   PD29 March 2006   ET12:31   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006 Reuters Limited  
   LPHONG KONG, March 29 (Reuters) - Major Hong Kong banks said on Wednesday they would raise interest rates, taking their cue from the central bank, but analysts do not expect higher borrowing costs to hurt the economy. "The rate rise was highly predicted and it's a fairly modest increase," said David O'Rear, chief economist at the Hong Kong General Chamber of Commerce.  

"We have very, very strong fundamentals in tourism, a generally improving economy and as long as the United States doesn't implode we're going to do fine."  
   TDThe United States is the territory's biggest export market after China.  

Hong Kong's banks announced rate rises after the Hong Kong Monetary Authority followed the United States and raised its official interest rate. Hong Kong tends to track U.S. rate moves because its currency is pegged to the U.S. dollar.  

Hong Kong was one of Asia's best-performing economies last year, growing 7.3 percent. Economists expect growth of more than 5 percent this year.  

Retail sales have accelerated since late last year, thanks to stronger growth in tourism and as expectations for wage growth offset some concerns about rising rates.  

Bank of China (Hong Kong) Ltd. , the territory's biggest mortgage lender, Standard Chartered Bank and Bank of East Asia Ltd. said they would raise their prime lending rates by a quarter of a point to 8.25 percent from Thursday.  

HSBC Holdings Plc and its subsidiary Hang Seng Bank Ltd. said their prime rates would go up to 8 percent on Thursday from 7.75 percent.  

The banks also plan to raise their savings deposit rates by a quarter of a point on Thursday.  

The U.S. Federal Reserve lifted its benchmark fed funds rate by 25 basis points to 4.75 percent on Tuesday, its 15th increase in as many meetings.  

The HKMA increased its base rate charged through its overnight discount window by 25 basis points to 6.25 percent.  

The Federal Reserve said rates may have to go higher given inflation risks but many economists expect one more rate rise in May will end the cycle.  

However, Joe Lo, senior economist at Citigroup, said Hong Kong consumers would still be price conscious.  

"After rates peak in May they will still be at that high level until the second quarter of 2007," he said.  

The reaction of the property market will be a key factor.  

Property sales have picked up in recent weeks after a lull but if sales stall again on further rate rises, homeowners may become nervous about house prices and rein in spending, economists said.  
   RFECONOMY-HONGKONG-RATES|LANGEN|ABN|M|E|RBN|D|Z|RNP|DNP   INibcs : Business/Consumer Services | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1202 : Interest Rates | m131 : Money Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mcpdbt : Corporate Debt/Bond Markets | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REhkong : Hong Kong | usa : United States | asiaz : Asia | china : China | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America   IPCTCF | ECI | MCE | INT | BNK | FIN | STIR | MMT | DBT | CPX   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument LBA0000020060329e23t000p2  



 HDBahrain to assess policy if Fed pauses-BMA chief     BYBy Sabyasachi Mitra     WC473 words   PD28 March 2006   ET16:42   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006 Reuters Limited  
   LPLONDON, March 28 (Reuters) - Bahrain's central bank governor said on Tuesday that if the U.S. Federal Reserve pauses in its monetary tightening campaign, then the Gulf Arab state may have to assess its domestic monetary policy.  

Rasheed Al-Maraj, governor of Bahrain Monetary Agency, told Reuters domestic monetary conditions still remained accommodative.  
   TDLike the other five energy exporting Gulf Arab countries, Bahrain pegs its currency to the U.S. dollar and generally moves interest rates in lockstep with the U.S. Federal Reserve.  

The Fed is widely expected to raise rates later on Tuesday by 25 basis point rise to 4.75 percent, which would mark the 15th straight increase since mid-2004.  

But as global markets speculate on how long the Fed will keep raising rates, rapidly-growing Gulf states face a dilemma of whether to mimic what the Fed does or keep on tightening their domestic policies.  

"For the first time we would probably have a divergence in our monetary situations," Maraj said on the sidelines of an investor conference on Bahrain.  

He said apart from interest rates, the central bank had other instruments like capital reserve requirements and policies to oversee bank lending to fine tune its monetary policy.  

"Monetary policy is still accommodative at present...but if the Fed's interest rate direction pauses at some stage, we will have to assess the conditions," Maraj said.  

The central bank governor said growth, inflation and liquidity conditions were levelling off from the scorching pace witnessed in the last few years.  

Maraj said Bahrain's economy is expected to expand by about five to seven percent this year and inflation is expected to remain subdued.  

CURRENCY UNION  

Maraj said the Gulf Arab states were on track to achieve a euro-like currency union by 2010.  

The six Gulf Arab States -- Saudi Arabia, Bahrain, Qatar, Kuwait, Oman and the United Arab Emirates -- are meeting next week to discuss steps to move to a single currency.  

They have made only modest progress so far.  

Analysts say the wide growth and fiscal differentials among the Gulf countries make it difficult for all to stick to caps agreed last year on budget deficit and debt.  

Maraj said it was unfortunate that when Gulf economies were opening their markets, trying to enter the World Trade Organisation, reducing bureaucracy and slashing barriers, Dubai had to give up control of six U.S. ports.  

"It is unfortunate that incidents like that happen," he added.  

Earlier this month, state-owned Arab company Dubai Ports World had to transfer operations of its U.S. terminals to calm a political storm surrounding the deal following its acquisition of British-based P&O.  
   RFFINANCIAL-BAHRAIN-POLICY (INTERVIEW)|LANGEN|ABN|M|D|MD|GFN|DNP   INibcs : Business/Consumer Services | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe1201 : Central Bank Intervention | e1202 : Interest Rates | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REbahrn : Bahrain | meastz : Middle East | usa : United States | asiaz : Asia | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | gulfstz : Persian Gulf Regions | namz : North America | wasiaz : Western Asia   IPCGFN | CEN | MCE | BNK | FIN | INT   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument LBA0000020060328e23s0016d  



 HDCHRONOLOGY - Fed funds rate changes since 1990     WC727 words   PD28 March 2006   ET21:40   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006 Reuters Limited  
   LPNEW YORK, March 28 (Reuters) - The Federal Reserve on Tuesday raised the benchmark federal funds rate to 4.75 percent from 4.50 percent, the central bank's 15th consecutive interest rate hike since it began tightening monetary policy in June 2004.  

The following is a chronology of the Federal Reserve's changes in the federal funds rate since 1990.  
   TDMoves are measured in basis points (bps), each of which equals one-hundredth of a percentage point: 2006   


March 28           Raised 25 bps  to  4.75 pct
Jan 31             Raised 25 bps  to  4.50 pct
2005
Dec 13             Raised 25 bps  to  4.25 pct
Nov 1              Raised 25 bps  to  4.00 pct
Sept 20            Raised 25 bps  to  3.75 pct
Aug 9              Raised 25 bps  to  3.50 pct
June 30            Raised 25 bps  to  3.25 pct
May 3              Raised 25 bps  to  3.00 pct
March 22           Raised 25 bps  to  2.75 pct
Feb 2              Raised 25 bps  to  2.50 pct
2004
Dec 14             Raised 25 bps  to  2.25 pct
Nov 10             Raised 25 bps  to  2.00 pct
Sept 21            Raised 25 bps  to  1.75 pct
Aug 10             Raised 25 bps  to  1.50 pct
June 30            Raised 25 bps  to  1.25 pct
2003
June 25            Cut 25 bps     to  1.00 pct
2002
Nov 6              Cut 50 bps     to  1.25 pct
2001
Dec 12             Cut 25 bps     to  1.75 pct
Nov 6              Cut 50 bps     to  2.00 pct
Oct 2              Cut 50 bps     to  2.50 pct
Sept 17            Cut 50 bps     to  3.00 pct
Aug 21             Cut 25 bps     to  3.50 pct
June 27            Cut 25 bps     to  3.75 pct
May 15             Cut 50 bps     to  4.00 pct
April 18           Cut 50 bps     to  4.50 pct
March 20           Cut 50 bps     to  5.00 pct
Jan 31             Cut 50 bps     to  5.50 pct
Jan 3              Cut 50 bps     to  6.00 pct
2000
May 16             Raised 50 bps  to  6.50 pct
March 21           Raised 25 bps  to  6.00 pct
Feb 2              Raised 25 bps  to  5.75 pct
1999
Nov 16             Raised 25 bps  to  5.50 pct
Aug 24             Raised 25 bps  to  5.25 pct
June 30            Raised 25 bps  to  5.00 pct
1998
Nov 17             Cut 25 bps     to  4.75 pct
Oct 15             Cut 25 bps     to  5.00 pct
Sept 29            Cut 25 bps     to  5.25 pct
1997
March 25           Raised 25 bps  to  5.50 pct
1996
Jan 31             Cut 25 bps     to  5.25 pct
1995
Dec 19             Cut 25 bps     to  5.50 pct
July 6             Cut 25 bps     to  5.75 pct
Feb 1              Raised 50 bps  to  6.00 pct
1994
Nov 15             Raised 75 bps  to  5.50 pct
Aug 16             Raised 50 bps  to  4.75 pct
May 17             Raised 50 bps  to  4.25 pct
April 18           Raised 25 bps  to  3.75 pct
March 22           Raised 25 bps  to  3.50 pct
Feb 4              Raised 25 bps  to  3.25 pct
1993
No rate changes
1992
Sept 4             Cut 25 bps     to  3.00 pct
July 2             Cut 50 bps     to  3.25 pct
April 9            Cut 25 bps     to  3.75 pct
1991
Dec 20             Cut 50 bps     to  4.00 pct
Dec 6              Cut 25 bps     to  4.50 pct
Nov 6              Cut 25 bps     to  4.75 pct
Oct 31             Cut 25 bps     to  5.00 pct
Sept 13            Cut 25 bps     to  5.25 pct
Aug 6              Cut 25 bps     to  5.50 pct
April 30           Cut 25 bps     to  5.75 pct
March 8            Cut 25 bps     to  6.00 pct
Feb 1              Cut 50 bps     to  6.25 pct
Jan 9              Cut 25 bps     to  6.75 pct
1990
Dec 18             Cut 25 bps     to  7.00 pct
Dec 7              Cut 25 bps     to  7.25 pct
Nov 13             Cut 25 bps     to  7.50 pct
Oct 29             Cut 25 bps     to  7.75 pct
July 13            Cut 25 bps     to  8.00 pct
  

(To access stories on Fed policy, please double-click on [FED/AHEAD])  
   RFECONOMY-FED-CHRONOLOGY|LANGEN|Table|ABN|E|RBN|U|D|M|MNI|RNP|DNP   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | e1202 : Interest Rates | gvexe : Executive Branch | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mcpdbt : Corporate Debt/Bond Markets | nchr : Chronology | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCFED | CEN | MCE | INT | PLCY | MUNI | DBT | WASH | STIR | FED/CHRONO | EMBG:DBT | EMBG:PLCY | embargokeyE1R1:1   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument LBA0000020060328e23s001m5  



 HDFed nudges rates up for 15th time but end could be in sight     BYBy MARTIN CRUTSINGER     CRAP Economics Writer   WC760 words   PD29 March 2006   ET10:23   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.  
   LPWASHINGTON (AP) - After nearly two years and 15 interest rate increases, the end of U.S. Federal Reserve rate hikes may finally be in sight.  

Many analysts think it could be one more and done. They believe the central bank will push the federal funds rate up by one last quarter-point to 5 percent at its next meeting on May 10 and then move to the sidelines for the rest of the year.  
   TD"We are headed to 5 percent almost certainly, but after that the Fed will pause because they will see enough evidence that economic growth is moderating," said David Jones, head of DMJ Advisors, a private consulting firm.  

Jones and other analysts took that position based on the statement the Fed issued after its Tuesday meeting, the first with new Chairman Ben Bernanke presiding.  

The central bank boosted the funds rate to 4.75 percent and retained language it had used at Alan Greenspan's last meeting that "some further policy firming may be needed" to make sure inflation does not get out of control.  

"Basically, the new boss has the same worries as the old boss," said Joel Naroff, head of Naroff Economic Advisors, another forecasting firm. "For the markets, this cannot be good news."  

Indeed, the Dow Jones industrial average plunged by 95.57 points on Tuesday as the Fed statement dashed hopes that the central bank could be through with raising rates.  

The central bank's brief statement explaining its actions changed very little with the switch from Greenspan, who retired after the last Fed meeting on Jan. 31.  

"Mr. Bernanke has chosen incrementalism over radical change in his first meeting," said Ian Shepherson, chief U.S. economist at High Frequency Economics, another consulting firm.  

Some have suggested Bernanke may soon begin lobbying his colleagues to move toward greater openness by doing such things as adopting a specific target range for inflation or expanding the statements the Fed issues after each meeting.  

Other possibilities include publishing more frequent Fed economic forecasts, expanding the minutes or possibly even holding a news conference after the Fed's closed-door deliberations.  

Some saw the first slight movement toward Bernanke's goal of more openness in the paragraph in Tuesday's statement discussing current economic conditions, which doubled in length from the January statement.  

"Economic growth has rebounded strongly in the current quarter but appears likely to moderate to a more sustainable pace," the statement said, offering an upbeat assessment of growth.  

On inflation, the Fed said, "As yet, the run-up in the prices of energy and other commodities appears to have had only a modest effect on core inflation."  

Analysts said this more detailed economic discussion could be the first of a series of changes by Bernanke to build on Greenspan's effort to make the Fed a more open institution. But they said Bernanke is likely to start with a go-slow approach to ensure he does not roil financial markets.  

"I don't think he wants the markets to start thinking about the things he might change. I think he wants to take it easy at first," said David Wyss, chief economist at Standard & Poor's in New York.  

While many analysts believe the Fed will raise rates only one more time in May, some economists said they think there could be at least two or possibly three more as the Fed is confronted with a spillover of higher inflation from last year's big jumps in energy costs and rising wage pressures.  

Stephen Stanley, chief economist at RBS Greenwich Capital, predicted the Fed would raise rates three more times because of concerns about inflation.  

The Fed's goal is to push rates high enough to slow interest-sensitive sectors of the economy such as housing to a more moderate growth rate that will keep inflation from getting out of hand.  

There are already signs that housing -- a standout performer for five years -- is slowing with sales of new homes falling in February by the largest amount in nearly nine years.  

Wyss said he looked for 30-year mortgage rates, currently at 6.32 percent, to be close to 7 percent by early next year. That will be enough to trigger a 10 percent drop in housing construction and a slowdown in the double-digit rate of price appreciation of recent years, he said.  

------  

On the Net:  

Federal Reserve:  http://www.federalreserve.gov 
   RF7   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPCtagpf1wcat | sel----- | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | NA FIN ECO US Fed Interest Rates | D8GL48F01   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020060329e23t0004t  



 HDNA FIN US Fed Text     BYBy The Associated Press     WC319 words   PD29 March 2006   ET00:23   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.  
   LPA text of the Federal Reserve Board's policy statement that accompanied an announcement Tuesday by the Federal Open Market Committee of an interest rate increase:  

The Federal Open Market Committee decided today to raise its target for the federal funds rate by 25 basis points to 4.75 percent.  
   TDThe slowing of the growth of real GDP in the fourth quarter of 2005 seems largely to have reflected temporary or special factors. Economic growth has rebounded strongly in the current quarter but appears likely to moderate to a more sustainable pace. As yet, the run-up in the prices of energy and other commodities appears to have had only a modest effect on core inflation, ongoing productivity gains have helped to hold the growth of unit labor costs in check, and inflation expectations remain contained. Still, possible increases in resource utilization, in combination with the elevated prices of energy and other commodities, have the potential to add to inflation pressures.  

The committee judges that some further policy firming may be needed to keep the risks to the attainment of both sustainable economic growth and price stability roughly in balance. In any event, the committee will respond to changes in economic prospects as needed to foster these objectives.  

Voting for the FOMC monetary policy action were: Ben S. Bernanke, Chairman; Timothy F. Geithner, vice chairman; Susan S. Bies; Jack Guynn; Donald L. Kohn; Randall S. Kroszner; Jeffrey M. Lacker; Mark W. Olson; Sandra Pianalto; Kevin M. Warsh; and Janet L. Yellen.  

In a related action, the board of governors approved a 25-basis-point increase in the discount rate to 5.75 percent. In taking this action, the board approved the requests submitted by the boards of directors of the Federal Reserve Banks of Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, Minneapolis, Dallas, and San Francisco.  
   RF7   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPCtagpf1wcat | sel----- | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | NA FIN US Fed Text | D8GKREV0A   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020060328e23s003tt  



 HDUS SWAPS - Short-end tightens before Fed decision     WC370 words   PD27 March 2006   ET22:53   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006 Reuters Limited  
   LPNEW YORK, March 27 (Reuters) - Spreads on short-dated U.S. interest rate swaps over Treasuries tightened on Monday, prior to Federal Reserve's widely expected decision to lift interest rates for the 15th straight time on Tuesday.  

The Fed's policy statement after its two-day policy meeting is expected to confirm players' expectations that the Fed is close to winding down its rate-raising campaign. However, the Fed may may still choose to increase rates one more time to insure price pressures are contained, investors say.  
   TDIf the Fed reveals no surprises, swap spreads and the rest of the bond market will unlikely react much, they said.  

"It's not going to have much effect. Everything should be rangebound," said James Hopkins, principal at State Street Global Advisors in Boston.  

Two-year swap spreads, most sensitive to Fed policy, contracted in line with Eurodollar futures <0#ED:>, which fared better than two-year Treasuries <US2YT=RR>, market sources said.  

Two-year swap yields edged up 1 basis point to 5.14 percent, while two-year Treasury yields gained 2 basis points to 4.74 percent.  

Two-year Treasury notes succumbed to selling pressure in the wake of mediocre demand for $22 billion of new two-year supply sold by the Treasury Department on Monday, they said.  

Two-year swap spreads have narrowed to their tightest levels so far in March after reaching wides of more than 50 basis points two weeks ago on worries about rising global interest rates.  

Long-dated swap spreads were little changed from late Friday with long-dated Treasury and swap yields rising in line with each other, investors said.  

Ten-year swap spreads stood at 53.00 basis points, unchanged from Friday.  

Ten-year swap yields and benchmark 10-year Treasury yields <US10YT=RR> rose 3 basis points to 5.23 percent and 4.70 percent, respectively.  

Longer-dated swap spreads have been supported by hedging of new supply and demand for higher yields in the credit markets, J.P. Morgan analysts said in a report released on Monday.  
   RFMARKETS-SWAPS|LANGEN|Table|ABN|E|RBN|D|M|MNI|U|RNP|DNP   COssbt : State Street Corporation   INi814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | m131 : Money Markets | m15 : Derivative Securities | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mcpdbt : Corporate Debt/Bond Markets | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCINT | MCE | DBT | DRV | STIR | MMT | MUNI | SWP/ | EMBG:DBT | EMBG:SWP/ | embargokeyE2   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument LBA0000020060330e23r001xp  



 HDUPDATE 3-US home loan demand up before Fed rate increase     BYBy Julie Haviv     WC732 words   PD29 March 2006   ET14:00   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006 Reuters Limited  
   LP(Adds quote, details on adjustable-rate mortgage and refinancing activity, background)  

NEW YORK, March 29 (Reuters) - U.S. mortgage applications rose for the first time in three weeks, reflecting a modest increase in home purchasing loan requests before the Federal Reserve's widely expected interest-rate hike, an industry trade group said on Wednesday.  
   TDThe Mortgage Bankers Association said its seasonally adjusted index of mortgage application activity <USMGM=ECI> for the week ended March 24 rose 1.2 percent to 571.7 from the previous week's 565.0, its lowest level so far this year.  

Douglas Duncan, the MBA's chief economist, attributed the slight uptick in demand to this week's Fed meeting.  

"An increase in applications is typical ahead of a Fed meeting," he said. "People are aware that rates are going to rise, so they lock in ahead of time."  

In the first meeting since Ben Bernanke took over as Fed chairman, the policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee raised its federal funds rate by a quarter-percentage point to 4.75 percent on Tuesday, as expected. It was the U.S. central bank's 15th straight rate hike since June 2004.  

While mortgage rates are linked to long-term U.S. Treasury yields, higher short-term rates lead investors to recalibrate their long-term rate expectations.  

The MBA said on Wednesday that borrowing costs on 30-year fixed-rate mortgages, the industry benchmark, averaged 6.36 percent, excluding fees, up 0.05 percentage point from the previous week.  

The 30-year fixed-rate mortgage was also well above its 2005 low of 5.47 percent in late June 2005 and above last year's high of 6.33 percent in the week of Nov. 11.  

PURCHASE MORTGAGE DEMAND UP  

The MBA's seasonally adjusted purchase mortgage index <USMGPI=ECI> rose 2.7 percent to 404.1 from the previous week's 393.6.  

However, the index -- widely considered a timely gauge of U.S. home sales -- was significantly below its year-ago level of 470.9.  

The group's seasonally adjusted index of refinancing applications <USMGR=ECI> decreased 1.0 percent to 1,558.4 compared to 1,574.5 the previous week. A year earlier the index stood at 1,857.2.  

Historically low mortgage rates have fueled a five-year housing boom, helping support the U.S. economy's recovery from recession despite uncertain business investment.  

Most analysts contend that mortgage rates are on the rise. While they may differ on whether or not there is a housing bubble, most agree that the market is cooling off from its record run.  

Fixed 15-year mortgage rates averaged 6.00 percent, up from 5.99 percent the previous week. Rates on one-year adjustable-rate mortgages (ARMs) increased to 5.83 percent from 5.68 percent.  

The ARM share of activity rose to 28.7 percent of total applications from 28.3 percent the previous week. Refinancings fell as a percentage of all mortgage applications, falling to 37.3 percent from 38.1 percent, the MBA said.  

Bob Walters, chief economist at Quicken Loans, an online mortgage lender, said long-term fixed rates are still attractive.  

"And while the Fed indicated it may raise rates the next time it meets, long-term rates will continue to appeal to those in the market to buy a home or homeowners looking to disARM," he said.  

The MBA's survey covers about 50 percent of all U.S. retail residential mortgage originations. Respondents include mortgage bankers, commercial banks and thrifts.  

MIXED SALES SIGNALS  

The MBA data is seen as an indicator of latest trends, following what were mixed signals on housing tendencies from other sources earlier this month.  

Last Friday, the U.S. government reported that sales of new U.S. homes took their biggest plunge in February in nearly nine years, while prices fell and the number of homes for sale hit a high, signaling significant slowing in the housing market.  

However, the day before, on Thursday, the National Association of Realtors said U.S. existing home sales rose 5.2 percent in February, defying forecasts of a slowdown as warm weather boosted single-family and condo sales.  
   RFECONOMY-MORTGAGES (UPDATE 3)|LANGEN|ABN|E|RBN|U|D|M|RNP|DNP   INibcs : Business/Consumer Services   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1122 : Mortgage Applications/Refinancing | e1202 : Interest Rates | gcat : Political/General News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mcpdbt : Corporate Debt/Bond Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ntop : Dow Jones/Reuters Top Wire News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCMTG | DBT | INT | MCE | ECI | FIN | AGN | STIR | NEWS | CPX | EMBG:DBT | embargokeyE1R1:1   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument LBA0000020060329e23t000ss  



 HDRPT-Treasuries fall ahead of expected Fed rate hike     BYBy Pedro Nicolaci da Costa     WC409 words   PD27 March 2006   ET16:17   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006 Reuters Limited  
   LP(Repeats to additional subscribers, with no changes to text)  

NEW YORK, March 27 (Reuters) - U.S. Treasury debt prices slipped on Monday as investors became defensive one day ahead of an expected interest rate hike from the Federal Reserve.  
   TDAnother quarter-percentage-point rate increase was widely viewed as a fait accompli, with investors more keen on rummaging through the central bank's statement for any clues as to future policy direction.  

But such an exercise might also prove futile, some analysts said, since officials would not say anything so definitive that it would back them into a corner.  

"The Fed statement is unlikely to signal a pause or otherwise surprise to the dovish side," said Larry Dyer, market strategist at Credit Suisse.  

As they waited, traders took benchmark 10-year notes <US10YT=RR> 8/32 lower for a yield of 4.71 percent, up from 4.68 percent on Friday. Existing two-year notes <US2YT=RR> fell 2/32 to yield 4.75 percent.  

Meanwhile, an auction of $22 billion in new two-year notes garnered below-average interest from both primary dealers and indirect bidders, but only had a passing market impact.  

The $22 billion in new notes was sold at a high yield of 4.73 percent, and was met with bids for 2.12 times the amount on offer, not far below an average 2.20 for 2005.  

Indirect bidders, which include customers of primary dealers but also foreign central banks, took home about 34.2 percent of the notes, also just below last year's average.  

Five-year notes <US5YT=RR> dipped 5/32 to yield 4.70 percent from 4.67 percent, while the 30-year bond <US30YT=RR> slid half a point to yield 4.73 percent.  

Some traders expressed concern that new Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke might catch the market off guard with considerable changes to the statement in an effort to add his own personal touch to monetary policy.  

But the likelihood of such an event was seen as slim, since Bernanke would be well aware of the turbulence he might cause and should therefore likely refrain from such revisions.  

More likely than not, analysts said, the Fed would stick to its current phraseology, which suggests that "further measured policy firming may be needed."  
   RFMARKETS-BONDS (UPDATE 4)|LANGEN|DA|FN|NW|SW   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | gcat : Political/General News | m131 : Money Markets | m15 : Derivative Securities | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mcpdbt : Corporate Debt/Bond Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ntop : Dow Jones/Reuters Top Wire News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCDBT | GVD | MUNI | INT | MCE | STIR | DRV | MMT | NEWS | US/ | US/N | EMBG:DBT | embargokeyE1R1:1   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument LBA0000020060327e23r0015j  



 HDUS TREASURY OUTLOOK -Digesting Bernanke's statement     BYBy Chris Reese     WC504 words   PD28 March 2006   ET23:03   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006 Reuters Limited  
   LP NEW YORK, March 28 (Reuters) - U.S. Treasury bond investors on Wednesday will further digest a Federal Reserve policy statement, crafted with new Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke at the central bank's helm, suggesting more interest rate hikes.  
   TD An auction of new five-year notes on Wednesday could also have an impact on bond price direction.  

 Treasury prices could fall further, and yields rise as investors adjust to the potential of a fed funds rate at 5.00 percent, after the central bank boosted official interest rates to 4.75 percent on Tuesday.  

 Treasury yields would have a way to go to meet the levels set by a further fed funds increase at the next policy meeting in May. After the rate hike on Tuesday, the benchmark 10-year note <US10YT=RR> lost 18/32 to yield 4.78 percent, while the two-year note <US2YT=RR> lost 3/32 to yield 4.80 percent.  

 Increases in the Fed's target for short-term interest rates hurt Treasuries, since they provide a floor for borrowing costs that prevents financial institutions from lending beneath those levels.  

 Under the new leadership of Ben Bernanke, the Fed's post-meeting statement did contain some changes in language, but economists said the basic message was the same -- the central bank may raise rates further.  

 "The Fed is indicating there is potentially another rate hike coming at the next meeting on May 10," said Gary Thayer, chief economist at A.G. Edwards & Sons in St. Louis, Missouri.  

 "They're saying that some further policy firming may be needed so it does not look like the Fed is seeing enough softness in the economy right now to warrant pausing," Thayer said.  

 Traders will have little in the way of economic data on Wednesday to judge the degree of softness in the economy, although Friday's reading on February personal consumption and personal income will be closely watched for any indications of inflation.  

 However, investors on Wednesday will be watching to see how well an auction of $14-billion in five-year notes <US5YT=RR> is received.  

 The last time the Treasury auctioned five-year notes in late February, bond prices extended losses after weak indirect bidder interest and a comparatively low bid-to-cover ratio.  

 In that auction, which was also for a total of $14 billion, indirect bidders took home $2.96 billion of the notes, or 21.14 percent of the auction -- below the average of 38.13 percent in the 12 five-year note auctions in 2005.  

 Indirect bidders include customers of primary dealers and foreign central banks, and are often seen as a proxy for offshore interest in U.S. debt.  

 The bid-to-cover ratio for the February auction was 2.18, below the average bid-to-cover ratio of 2.52 in the five-year auctions of 2005.      
   RFMARKETS-BONDS-OUTLOOK|LANGEN|ABN|M|E|RBN|D|U|MNI|AUF   NSe1122 : Mortgage Applications/Refinancing | e1202 : Interest Rates | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m131 : Money Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mcpdbt : Corporate Debt/Bond Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCMMT | DBT | GVD | MUNI | INT | MCE | AGN | MTG | USC | STIR | US/O | EMBG:DBT | embargokeyE1   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument LBA0000020060331e23s001xd  



 HDUS SWAP - Spreads mixed after Fed lifts rates     WC456 words   PD28 March 2006   ET23:35   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006 Reuters Limited  
   LPNEW YORK, March 28 (Reuters) - U.S. swap spreads were mixed on Tuesday in a broad sell-off after the Federal Reserve decided to raise short-term U.S. interest rates for a 15th straight time, and left the door open for more rate increases.  

Swap spreads finished 1 basis point tighter to 2 basis point wider with 10-year spreads edging out by 0.25 basis point from late Monday.  
   TDThe day's paying on shorter-dated swaps due to fears of rising rates was offset by receiving from hedging tied to this week's supply of long-term debt, analysts said.  

Bond dealers often pay in swaps to lock in yields on the debt they underwrite, a move that widens swap spreads. Once the bonds are sold, the dealers close out these "rate locks" by receiving in swaps, which narrow spreads.  

Investors sometimes switch the cash flows from the bonds they buy in the swap market to better fit to their cash flow requirements, which often tightens swap spreads.  

The day's largest debt offerings included $2.26 billion in commercial mortgage-backed securities from Bank of America.  

Meanwhile, the Federal Open Market Committee, the Fed's rate policy arm, unanimously agreed to lift its rate target on federal funds, overnight loans between banks, to 4.75 percent.  

While long-term U.S. inflation remains low, a tightening labor market and stubbornly high energy prices could add to inflation pressures, according to the FOMC.  

"The Committee judges that some further policy firming may be needed to keep the risks to the attainment of both sustainable economic growth and price stability roughly in balance," the group said in a statement released after the end of its two-day policy meeting.  

Bear Stearns interest rate analyst Jon Blumenfeld said more rate hikes could flatten the swap curve.  

"It's not a swap event. It's a Treasuries event," Blumenfeld said of Fed's latest move. "This confirms that the Fed is in no hurry to stop. That should flatten the curve. Then, we'll see whether the swap curve will follow."  

The swap curve was little changed from Monday. Two-year swap yields rose to 5.22 percent from 5.14 percent, and 10-year swap yields climbed to 5.32 percent from 5.23 percent.  

Two-year Treasury yields, most sensitive to Fed policy, gained 6 basis points to 4.80 percent, their highest level since mid-February 2001. Benchmark 10-year Treasury yields <US10YT=RR> stepped up 8 basis points to 4.78 percent, their highest level in two weeks.  
   RFMARKETS-SWAPS|LANGEN|Table|ABN|E|RBN|D|M|MNI|U|RNP|DNP   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | m131 : Money Markets | m15 : Derivative Securities | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mcpdbt : Corporate Debt/Bond Markets | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCINT | MCE | DBT | DRV | STIR | MMT | MUNI | SWP/ | EMBG:DBT | EMBG:SWP/ | embargokeyE2   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument LBA0000020060331e23s001yt  



 HDUS Fed resumes policy meeting, rate hike expected     WC167 words   PD28 March 2006   ET16:04   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006 Reuters Limited  
   LPWASHINGTON, March 28 (Reuters) - U.S. Federal Reserve policy-makers resumed a meeting on Tuesday that economists expect will yield a 15th straight interest-rate hike and maybe a hint that a 21-month run of credit-tightening is almost over.  

The central bank's rate-setting Federal Open Market Committee began the second day of its two-day meeting at 9 a.m. (1400 GMT), as scheduled, a Fed official said.  
   TDThe meeting is the first to be led by new Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke, who replaced Alan Greenspan as Fed chairman on Feb. 1.  

The Fed is widely expected to bump up overnight borrowing costs by a quarter-percentage point to 4.75 percent.  

Policy-makers may also revise the accompanying statement to signal a halt in rate hikes may be near, some economists say.  
   RFECONOMY-FED-MEETING|LANGEN|ABN|C|D|E|M|O|U|MTL|GRO|SOF|OIL|G|RBN|RNP|PGE   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | e1202 : Interest Rates | gcat : Political/General News | gvexe : Executive Branch | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mcpdbt : Corporate Debt/Bond Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ntop : Dow Jones/Reuters Top Wire News | ecat : Economic News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCWASH | FED | MCE | GVD | DBT | NEWS | CEN | STIR | PLCY   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument LBA0000020060328e23s00143  



 HDUPDATE 4-Fed raises U.S. rates, says more may come     BYBy Tim Ahmann     WC802 words   PD28 March 2006   ET23:34   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006 Reuters Limited  
   LP (Updates with poll of Wall Street firms, adds discount rate)  
   TD WASHINGTON, March 28 (Reuters) - In their first meeting under new chief Ben Bernanke, Federal Reserve officials lifted a key U.S. interest rate a 15th straight time and said credit costs may have to go higher still, given inflation risks.  

 The U.S. central bank's rate-setting Federal Open Market Committee voted unanimously to raise the benchmark federal funds rate target a quarter-percentage point to 4.75 percent, the highest level since April 2001.  

 In a statement seen as having a hawkish tilt, Bernanke and his colleagues focused squarely on the possibility that price pressures could build and restated a caution that further rate rises may be necessary.  

 "As yet, the run-up in the prices of energy and other commodities appears to have had only a modest effect on core inflation," the Fed said. "Still, possible increases in resource utilization, in combination with the elevated prices of energy and other commodities, have the potential to add to inflation pressures."  

 The FOMC also raised the more symbolic discount rate by a quarter-percentage point to 5.75 percent.  

 The dollar rose and prices for U.S. stocks and government bonds fell on the hint of higher borrowing costs ahead.  

 Betting in futures markets shifted to show almost a 100 percent chance of the Fed pushing the fed funds rate up to 5 percent at its next meeting in May and perhaps even higher at subsequent meetings.  

 Some analysts had thought policy-makers would suggest that the string of rate hikes dating to June 30, 2004, might be near an end. Instead Bernanke, who took over from Alan Greenspan on Feb. 1, was seen as taking a clear stand against inflation.  

 "The message from Bernanke is simple -- that nothing has changed, that the Fed takes inflation just as seriously as under the 'maestro,'" said Chris Low, chief economist at FTN Financial in New York, referring to Bernanke's storied predecessor.  

 The federal funds rate governs overnight borrowing between banks, but it can sway a wide array of credit costs.  

 In the wake of the Fed's action, many banks raised the prime rate charged for loans to their best customers, which is often a baseline for credit cards and home loans.  

 WAITING FOR A SLOWDOWN  

 The U.S. economy has bounced back smartly after growing at a 1.6 percent annual rate in the final three months of 2005, a sluggish performance the Fed pinned on "temporary or special factors" -- a possible reference to Hurricane Katrina.  

 Many forecasters think first-quarter growth will come in close to a rapid 5 percent  

 In the sole hint that policy-makers may view the rate cycle as being in the end stage, officials said in their statement they expect growth to come off its torrid pace.  

 "Economic growth has rebounded strongly in the current quarter, but appears likely to moderate to a more sustainable pace," the Fed said.  

 The language offered a bit more information on the outlook than statements had under Greenspan, and some analysts said it suggested a shift under Bernanke toward greater transparency.  

 In addition to highlighting the minimal impact lofty energy costs have had on underlying inflation, the Fed also said rising productivity was helping to mute wage-related price pressures and noted inflation was expected to remain low.  

 Still, with the unemployment rate at a historically low 4.8 percent and unused industrial capacity dwindling, the central bank appeared unwilling to drop its inflation offensive.  

 "The committee judges that some further policy firming may be needed to keep the risks to the attainment of both sustainable economic growth and price stability roughly in balance," the central bank said.  

 The central bank's favorite gauge of core inflation -- the core personal consumption expenditures price index that strips out volatile food and energy prices -- rose 1.8 percent in the 12 months through January. Many officials have said they want to keep it under 2 percent.  

 Michael Metz, chief investment strategist at Oppenheimer Holdings, said the statement underscored the uncertainty over when the rate-rise campaign would end, a delicate question on which Bernanke will have to forge consensus.  

 "They are using the 'may' approach to many variables -- the economy 'may' slow at the same time that inflation pressures 'may' intensify and therefore they 'may' have to raise rates again," he said.  

 A Reuters poll of 20 top Wall Street firms found 19 expected another rate rise at the Fed's next meeting on May 10, but only three saw a further move at the subsequent meeting in June.       
   RFECONOMY-FED (UPDATE 4)|LANGEN|AFA|CSA|LBY|RWSA|RWS|REULB|GNS|ABX|BNX|SXNA   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | e1202 : Interest Rates | gcat : Political/General News | gvexe : Executive Branch | m131 : Money Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mcpdbt : Corporate Debt/Bond Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ntop : Dow Jones/Reuters Top Wire News | ecat : Economic News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCWASH | FED | CEN | MCE | PLCY | MMT | DBT | STIR | INT | GVD | NEWS | ECI | EMBG:DBT | EMBG:PLCY | embargokeyE1R1:1   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument LBA0000020060328e23s0017b  



 HDUPDATE 1-US rate futures sag on view of Fed peak over 5 pct     BYBy Ros Krasny     WC353 words   PD28 March 2006   ET21:24   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006 Reuters Limited  
   LP(Adds details, byline)  

CHICAGO, March 28 (Reuters) - U.S. short-term interest rate futures fell on Tuesday after a bearishly construed statement from the Federal Reserve's policy-setting body had dealers looking at continued Fed rate increases.  
   TDAs expected the Federal Open Market Committee raised its target federal funds rate by a quarter-percentage point for the fifteenth consecutive meeting, to 4.75 percent, and gave no hint that its program of rate hikes would end soon.  

In his first policy meeting as Fed Chairman, Ben Bernanke "has kept the two key phrases from his predecessor's last meeting, namely 'possible increases in resource utilization ... have the potential to add to inflation pressures' and 'further policy firming may still be needed,'" said Ian Shepherdson, chief U.S. economist at High Frequency Economics.  

Chances of another Fed rate hike in May <FFK6> jumped to almost 100 percent from 80 percent shortly before the end of the FOMC meeting.  

"They're saying that some further policy firming may be needed, so it doesn't look like the Fed is seeing enough softness in the economy right now to warrant pausing," said Gary Thayer, chief economist at A.G. Edwards & Sons Inc. in St. Louis.  

Rate futures, which had been leaning recently to a peak fed funds rate of 5.0 percent, now show a 30-percent chance that the Fed will raise rates again in both May and June <FFN6>, which would take the fed funds rate to 5.25 percent.  

Paresh Upadhyaya, currency portfolio manager at Putnam Investments in Boston, noted the Fed had discarded a reference to "uneven" economic data from its January statement.  

"This time they dropped that and emphasized that economic growth has rebounded strongly in the current quarter," Upadhyaya said.  

"Economic growth has rebounded strongly in the current quarter but appears likely to moderate to a more sustainable pace," the Fed statement said.  
   RFMARKETS-FEDFUNDS-FOMC (UPDATE 1)|LANGEN|ABN|M|D|E|RBN|U|MNI|RNP|DNP   INibcs : Business/Consumer Services | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe1201 : Central Bank Intervention | e1202 : Interest Rates | m15 : Derivative Securities | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mcpdbt : Corporate Debt/Bond Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCMUNI | DBT | FED | GVD | DRV | INT | MCE | FIN | BNK   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument LBA0000020060328e23s001lh  



 HDRPT-Fed seen lifting U.S. rates, pondering pause      BYBy Alister Bull      WC661 words   PD27 March 2006   ET08:18   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006 Reuters Limited   
   LPWASHINGTON, March 26 (Reuters) - Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke leads his first policy meeting this week, one all but certain to end with another U.S. interest-rate increase and perhaps a suggestion a 21-month run of credit-tightening is almost over.   

Analysts expect the Federal Open Market Committee, gathering in Washington on Monday and Tuesday, to lift the benchmark federal funds rate to 4.75 percent.   
   TDThis would mark a 15th straight quarter-point hike since June 2004, when the U.S. central bank began a gradual campaign to boost interest rates from an ultra-low 1.0 percent to keep inflation from flaring up.   

Policy-makers may also tweak their accompanying policy statement, due at 2:15 p.m. (1915 GMT) on Tuesday, to signal a halt in rate hikes around mid-year, some economists say.   

Some analysts fear the cumulative increase in borrowing costs is already weighing on the U.S. economy and Tuesday's hike would be the last in the campaign.   

"I think that we are very close to seeing the end," said Lynn Reaser, chief economist at Bank of America Capital Management in Boston.   

But market players see a bit more ahead. Financial futures prices show a better-than-even chance of a federal funds rate of 5.0 percent by May and give even shorter odds of rates at this level by July. Either way, the cycle looks nearly done.   

"They are likely to acknowledge the firmer (economic) data since the January meeting ... If they only do that, it's likely to be taken as a pretty hawkish statement," said Dean Maki, chief US economist at Barclays Capital in New York.   

"I think that they are likely to make some small modification to the forward-looking language ... saying something like 'further policy firming might be needed' rather than 'may be needed'," Maki said.   

He said this would indicate the Fed is pondering a pause in rate increases in the second quarter.   

U.S. economic growth is on track for a thumping performance in the quarter of the year. But softer-than-expected new-home sales in February point to weakness in the second half.   

This echoes the forecast of Fed staff economists for growth to moderate in the second half as the housing market cools.   

Such a development could secure a rare soft landing for an economy that has survived many challenges since the technology bubble burst in 2001, including the September 11 attacks and the devastation of Hurricane Katrina.   

"The Fed definitely wants the economy to slow. What's going on in the housing market now suggests that close to enough may have been done so that the Fed really doesn't have to pound the economy over the head," said former Fed Governor Lyle Gramley.   

He expects no change to the policy statement and thinks the Fed will pause at 5.0 percent at its next meeting, on May 10, provided there are no surprises from data signaling growth was not slackening as predicted.   

NEW FACES   

There will be some changes to the players seated around the Fed's mahogany conference table from January, the final gathering under veteran Fed chair Alan Greenspan.   

New governors Randall Kroszner and Kevin Warsh join Bernanke for the first time, while Vice Chairman Roger Ferguson and Philadelphia Fed chief Anthony Santomero, who have both announced plans to leave the Fed, miss the meeting in keeping with tradition.   

Economists see Bernanke, who has pledged continuity with Greenspan's policy legacy, making his mark with a more collegial approach than Greenspan, who some felt consciously steered the committee toward the outcome he favored. Still, economists thought the newcomer would ensure his voice was heard.   

"He will let a committee decision take place, so long as it is going in the direction he thinks is appropriate," Gramley said.   
   RFECONOMY-FED|LANGEN|GNN|DNP   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument LBA0000020060327e23r000bf  



 HDUS SWAP - Spreads drift wider on yield uptick     WC356 words   PD29 March 2006   ET21:59   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006 Reuters Limited  
   LPNEW YORK, March 29 (Reuters) - Spreads on U.S. interest rate swaps drifted wider on Wednesday on an uptick in yields amid worries how far the Federal Reserve will raise U.S. interest rates, analysts and investors said.  

Most swap spreads widened by 0.25 basis point from 0.50 basis point from Tuesday.  
   TDAnalysts downplayed the day's move in spreads, citing the lack of paying pressure on swaps after the Fed raised key U.S. rates by 25 basis points for a 15th straight time since June 2004.  

Based on Tuesday's policy statement, the Fed also left the door open for more rate increases to curb inflationary pressures from a tightening job sector and stubbornly high oil prices.  

Most analysts, however, bet that the Fed will raise rates only one more time from the current 4.75 percent.  

The prospect of one more rate hike will not be enough to push benchmark 10-year Treasury yields <US10YT=RR> above the trading resistance of 5.00 percent, a level not seen since May 2002.  

"We shifted upward (in yield), but we are not going to break above 5 percent on the 10-years," said David Goldman, head of fixed-income research at Cantor Fitzgerald.  

Two-year swap yields gained 2 basis points to 5.24 percent, and 10-year swap yields rose 5 basis points to 5.35 percent, their highest level since May 2004.  

Two-year Treasury yields <US2YT=RR> edged up 1 basis point to 4.82 percent, their highest level in more than five years.  

Ten-year Treasury yields briefly touched 4.82 percent, their highest level in 21 months.  

In the short term, hedging activities tied to new debt will be the key driver of swap spreads, analysts said.  

Bond dealers often pay in swaps to lock in yields on the debt they underwrite, a move that widens swap spreads. Once the bonds are priced, the dealers unwind their "rate locks" by receiving in swaps, which narrows spreads.  
   RFMARKETS-SWAPS|LANGEN|Table|ABN|E|RBN|D|M|MNI|RNP   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | m131 : Money Markets | m15 : Derivative Securities | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mcpdbt : Corporate Debt/Bond Markets | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCINT | MCE | DBT | DRV | STIR | MMT | MUNI | SWP/ | EMBG:DBT | EMBG:SWP/ | embargokeyE2   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument LBA0000020060401e23t000ej  
 Page 1 of 1      2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.


 

 Page 1      2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.

