 


 HDFT.com site : Consumer confidence fall hits dollar.    BYPeter Garnham    WC1,136 words   PD30 October 2007   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPThe dollar sank to a record low against the euro and a basket of major currencies on Tuesday after a gauge of American household sentiment dropped to its lowest level in two years. 

The US Conference Board's consumer confidence index fell from 99.5 in September to 95.6 in October, below consensus forecasts for a reading of 99. 
   TDAlan Ruskin at RBS Greenwich Capital said the data would reinforce the negative dollar tone, but the follow-through was likely to be very restrained, given the proximity to today's Federal Reserve decision on US interest rates. 

"Though this data will have little influence on the Fed, it will have some impact on market psychology, denting press-inspired thoughts that the Fed might not cut rates," he said. 

In New York, the dollar was down 0.1 per cent at $1.4441 against the euro, and had just eclipsed the record low of $1.4438 it hit on Monday. 

The dollar gained earlier in the session following press reports that the Fed might choose to keep interest rates on hold at 4.75 per cent at its meeting and that a 50 basis point cut was extremely unlikely. 

"While it is unclear whether these press views reflect information from sources within the Federal Reserve, it is consistent with our view that a 50 basis point cut is quite unlikely," said David Woo at Barclays Capital. "But we think a no-change decision is equally improbable." 

Mr Woo said he believed risks to the US financial and housing markets would keep the Fed in an easing mode under which it was likely to continue to stress the downside risks to growth over the upside risks to inflation. 

The dollar was up 0.1 per cent at Y114.72 against the yen, while the euro was 0.2 per cent firmer at Y165.60 against the yen. 

Meanwhile, the pound rose 0.3 per cent to a 26-year high of $2.0694 against the dollar, climbed 0.2 per cent to GBP0.6978 against the euro, and gained 0.35 per cent to Y237.30 against the yen. 

Analysts said the move was prompted by comments from Kate Barker, a member of the Bank of England's monetary policy committee, who hurt expectations of a cut in UK interest rates at the central bank's policy setting meeting next week by saying she felt the present situation was a slowdown in the UK rather than anything more serious. 

Elsewhere, the Swedish krona rose 0.2 per cent to SKr9.1695 against the euro and climbed 0.3 per cent to SKr6.3650 against the dollar after the Riksbank, the Swedish central bank, raised rates by 25 basis points to 4 per cent. 

The accompanying report suggested interest rates were likely to continue to rise next year. "The projected path is a bit more hawkish than might have been anticipated," said Ben May at Capital Economics. 

Sterling hit a 26-year high against the dollar on Tuesday as expectations that the Bank of England would move to cut UK interest rates were dented. 

Analysts said comments from Kate Barker, a member of the central bank's monetary policy committee, were responsible for the move. 

On a visit to Guernsey on Monday Ms Barker said she felt the present situation was a slowdown in the UK economy, rather than anything more serious. 

Howard Archer at Global Insight said given that Ms Barker was seen as a swing voter on the nine-strong committee, her comments were particularly significant when trying to ascertain the prospects for an early UK interest rate cut. 

"This suggests that Ms Barker believes that there is not yet a compelling case for the bank to take pre-emptive action to try and reduce the risk that the credit crunch could trigger a sharp downturn in growth," he said. 

"This reinforces our view that there is not nearly enough evidence so far of a significant economic slowdown for most members of the monetary policy committee to vote for an interest rate cut as soon as November, or even this year." 

The pound rose 0.1 per cent to $2.0660 against the dollar, surpassing the previous high of $2.0655 it hit in July, gained 0.3 per cent to GBP0.6967 against the euro and climbed 0.2 per cent to Y237.15 against the yen. 

Meanwhile, the dollar edged 0.2 per cent higher against the euro to $1.4395, pulling back from the record low of $1.4438 it hit on Monday. 

David Woo at Barclays Capital said the slight appreciation in the dollar followed press reports arguing the Federal Reserve might choose to keep interest rates on hold at its meeting on Wednesday and that a 50 basis point cut was extremely unlikely. 

"While it is unclear whether these press views reflect information from sources within the Federal Reserve, it is consistent with our view that a 50 basis point cut is quite unlikely," he said. "But we think a no-change decision is equally improbable." 

Mr Woo said he believed risks to the US financial and housing markets would keep the Fed in an easing mode under which it was likely to continue to stress the downside risks to growth over the upside risks to inflation. 

"So we do not expect the recent appreciation in the dollar to be sustained following the Fed rate decision," he said. 

The dollar also edged 0.1 per cent higher to Y114.80 against the yen and climbed 0.1 per cent to SFr1.1660 against the Swiss franc. 

Meanwhile commodity linked currencies fell back following strong gains on Monday as oil and gold prices retreated from record levels. 

The Canadian dollar, which struck a 47-year high on Monday, eased 0.3 per cent to C$0.9560 against the dollar. The Australian dollar, which hit a 23-year high on Monday, fell 0.3 per cent to $0.9190. 

Elsewhere, the Swedish krona rose 0.4 per cent to SKr9.1697 against the euro and climbed 0.3 per cent to SKr6.3700 against the dollar after the Riksbank, the Swedish central bank, raised interest rates by 25 basis-points to 4 per cent. 

The accompanying monetary policy report suggested that interest rates were likely to continue to rise next year, peaking at between 4.25 and 4.5 per cent. 

"The projected path is slightly higher than that published back in June and therefore a bit more hawkish than might have been anticipated," said Ben May at Capital Economics. "Overall, then, a fairly strong statement of intent from the Riksbank, which should give the Swedish krona some near-term support."  
   RF59722980   CObcaptl : Barclays Capital Securities Ltd | rbsct : Royal Bank of Scotland Group PLC | barc : Barclays PLC | bbibnk : Barclays Bank PLC   INi814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | i831 : Financial Investments | i83101 : Investment Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | iinv : Investing/Securities   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | c01 : Profiles of Companies | c33 : Contracts/Orders | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ecat : Economic News | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter   REusa : United States | uk : United Kingdom | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTCOM00020071031e3au0003m  



 HDFT.com site : ECB holds fire as Europe braces for downturn.    BYRalph Atkins in Frankfurt    WC745 words   PD1 November 2007   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPWhen it comes to talking tough but holding fire, the European Central Bank is world champion. While eurozone growth was sluggish, it left its main interest rate unchanged for more than two years until December 2005 - without using the word "pause". Might its acting skills now be deployed again as growth peaks? 

An unexpected surge in eurozone inflation to 2.6 per cent this week and a risk that the annual rate will soon hit 3 per cent, appeared to strengthen the case for lifting interest rates from the current 4 per cent. The bank aims to keep inflation "below but close" to 2 per cent. The US Federal Reserve's caution about its next move after Wednesday's interest rate cut could have increased the room for manoeuvre by the ECB. 
   TDBut other factors are likely to result in the ECB keeping its powder dry when its governing council meets in Frankfurt next week - and maybe for sometime afterwards. 

After a strong third quarter, confidence indicators and other survey data show eurozone economic growth slowing - suggesting inflationary pressures could moderate during 2008. The 13-country zone "is at that awkward part of the cycle when inflation is still rising but activity is slowing - and this is when a central bank's calculations have to be most careful", says Julian Callow of Barclays Capital.

A stronger euro and the higher costs of borrowing resulting from the global credit squeeze have been acting as a brake. These have done the work of the ECB - possibly overdoing it in the eyes of some governing council members - and forced Jean-Claude Trichet, bank president, to calibrate carefully his references to exchange rates. 

When in September the ECB shelved a quarter-point rise in borrowing costs, it argued more information was required on the macro-economic impact of the credit squeeze. A consensus appears to be emerging among governing council members that that might take until the first quarter of 2008. 

Against that background, financial markets currently see little chance of an interest rate rise until the middle of next year. A December rise cannot be ruled out, but some economists believe the ECB will be on hold throughout 2008. 

Such steadiness might be a central bank virtue. Still, that is unlikely to prevent a lively internal debate among governing council members on the monetary policy stance. "The ECB may become boring in terms of decisions at the end of the day, but less boring if you could be a fly on the wall," says Erik Nielsen of Goldman Sachs.

Subtle changes have already taken place in the ECB's language as a result of the ongoing debate. 

Last month, Mr Trichet stopped talking about interest rates being "accommodative", or supportive of growth, suggesting he saw rates at or near a peak. 

Since then some governing council members have taken a "dove-ish" stance, stressing the economic uncertainty, the time being taken to relieve the credit squeeze - two-month interest rates remain stubbornly high - and downside risks to growth. But others, notably Axel Weber, Bundesbank president, have been anxious to keep alive the possibility of an early rise in eurozone borrowing costs. 

Mr Weber's warnings about inflation dangers appear aimed largely at a domestic audience; another explanation is that his aim was simply to prevent any discussion emerging about a cut in ECB interest rates. 

But if currently in a minority, Mr Weber could win supporters if the eurozone economic slowdown proved only temporary - especially if the Fed's actions help limit the impact of the US subprime mortgage crisis - and inflation failed to moderate. Revised ECB forecasts to be published in December are likely to show inflation above 2 per cent in 2008, and perhaps also in 2009. The ECB will watch carefully measures of expected inflation - and want to see that fears of higher inflation do not become self-fulfilling. 

As a result Mr Trichet is almost certain to stick to his policy of never pre-announcing a "pause" in ECB interest rate moves, leaving open the possibility of a rise in coming months. Many ECB watchers believe he will add a further element of unpredictability: the risk of abrupt market moves could mean he also drops his past practice of signalling likely rates moves a month or so in advance - another reason why boredom is unlikely to set in.  
   RF59778174   CObcaptl : Barclays Capital Securities Ltd | barc : Barclays PLC | bbibnk : Barclays Bank PLC   INi81401 : Central Banking | i9791121 : Sports Teams/Clubs | ibnk : Banking/Credit | i814 : Banking | i97911 : Sporting Facilities/Venues | i979112 : Spectator Sports | ilea : Leisure/Arts | i831 : Financial Investments | i83101 : Investment Banking | iinv : Investing/Securities   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | e1103 : Inflation/Prices | e52 : Euro Zone/Currency | ecat : Economic News | ecbnk : European Central Bank | eec : European Union | gent : Arts/Entertainment | gcat : Political/General News | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTCOM00020071102e3b10001h  



 HDFT.com site : Overview: Fed cut leaves dollar to fall further.    BYNeil Dennis in London and Michael Mackenzie in New York    WC910 words   PD31 October 2007   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPThe dollar sank to new lows and bond yields rose after the Federal Reserve cut US interest rates by a quarter point to 4.5 per cent on Wednesday while appearing to signal that it was in no rush to cut rates again in the near future. 

Equity investors were initially disappointed by the statement, but buyers soon emerged and stocks closed sharply higher. 
   TDThe Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 1 per cent to 13,930.01 after being up 0.4 per cent before the Fed's move. The S&P 500 rallied 1.2 per cent to 1,549.38, while the Nasdaq Composite rose 1.5 per cent to 2,859.12. 

"It appears that the equity market believes the Fed is on top of things," said Al Greenberg, head floor trader at the CBOE for BNY ConvergEx. "Once investors digested what the Fed had to say, they started to run the market higher." 

The Federal Open Market Committee said: "The committee judges that, after this action, the upside risks to inflation roughly balance the downside risks to growth." The FOMC also said this cut, along with September's 50-basis-point cut, "should forestall the hit to economy caused by recent financial turmoil". 

Drew Matus, economist at Lehman Brothers said: "More generally, when the FOMC discusses rate moves in cumulative terms, they are coming to or at the end of whatever cycle they had been in." 

Martin Slaney at GFT Global Markets. said: "This may well be the last cut we see in US interest rates until well into 2008." 

The yield on the two-year Treasury note rose 13bp to 3.94 per cent and interest rate futures reduced expectations of further cuts when the FOMC meets in December and early next year. The yield on the 10-year note rose 8bp to 4.465 per cent. 

"The prospect of further rate cuts is not looking good," said Tom di Galoma, head of Treasury trading at Jefferies &Co. "The economy and the markets have improved in the last six weeks and until housing weakness rolls over into the broad economy, the Fed will not aggressively ease." 

The latest Fed cut came even though US economic data on Wednesday surprised on the positive side. Gross domestic product in the third quarter rose by an annualised 3.9 per cent, beating market expectations. Wednesday's numbers also showed household spending and business investment remained robust. 

On currency markets, the dollar fell to a record low of $1.4504 against the euro after the rate cut was announced. The dollar index, a measure of the US unit's strength against a basket of other major currencies, also hit a new low. 

"This outcome will keep the dollar's longer term downtrend intact," said Marc Chandler at Brown Brothers Harriman.

Sterling rose to a 26-year peak against the dollar after a stronger-than-expected rise in UK house prices in October contrasted with recent data showing slowing mortgage demand and weaker buyer confidence. 

UK Gilt prices fell on the data, driving the yield on the 10-year note 3.9bp higher to 4.97 per cent. 

The Bank of Japan kept interest rates on hold at 0.5 per cent, offering no support for the weak yen. Furthermore, the central bank's semi-annual outlook on economic activity revealed expectations of lower growth and inflation, limiting the likelihood of any further near-term interest rate increases. The dollar was up 0.6 per cent to Y115.33. 

Oil prices rose sharply after a surprise drawdown in US stockpiles. Commodity markets had expected weekly inventory data to show a rise of 400,000 barrels of crude oil following the previous week's massive 5.3m-barrel fall. A further drain of 3.9m barrels last week shocked the market and Nymex West Texas Intermediate jumped $4.17 to close at a record $94.55 a barrel, while London's Brent crude climbed $3.19 to a new record of $90.63. 

With expectations skewed towards an inventory rise, some investors were short ahead of the numbers, with a $3 drop on Tuesday, said one trader, adding that Wednesday's price rise reflected efforts to cover these excessive short positions. 

Gold prices surged back towards recent 28-year highs as the dollar outlook softened. Spot gold was up 1.3 per cent to $791.70 an ounce. 

Equity markets in Asia and Europe closed before the Fed's rate decision. 

Hong Kong's Hang Seng index broke a four-day winning streak and edged off its record high as Tuesday's oil price decline took its toll on energy stocks such as CNOOC and Sinopec. 

The index fell 0.9 per cent to 31,352.58. 

In Tokyo the Nikkei 225 Average rose 0.5 per cent to 16,737.63, buoyed by gains in financials. Mitsubishi UFJ announced a share buyback. Shinsei Bank rose more than 5 per cent on lingering hopes of a takeover by JPMorgan.

Banking stocks helped European equities too, lifting the FTSE Eurofirst 300 index 0.9 per cent to 1,595.7. 

Eurozone yields rose, forcing prices lower, in response to stronger-than-expected inflation. The ten-year Bund yield rose 10.5 basis points to 4.28 per cent.  
   RF59750961   CObnycgl : BNY ConvergEx Group, LLC | jefa : Jefferies Group Inc. | bnyc : The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   INi81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | i814 : Banking | i831 : Financial Investments | i83102 : Security Brokering/Dealing | iinv : Investing/Securities   NSm11 : Equity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTCOM00020071101e3av0002s  



 HDFT.com site : Fed cuts rates by another quarter point.    BYEoin Callan in Washington and Michael Mackenzie in New York    WC486 words   PD31 October 2007   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPThe US Federal Reserve cut interest rates by a quarter of a point to 4.5 per cent on Wednesday, but warned investors against banking on further monetary easing, sending short-term government bond yields soaring. 

The central bank's Federal Open Market Committee signalled that it was shifting to a neutral stance on future rate cuts, saying "the upside risks to inflation roughly balance the downside risks to growth". 
   TDHowever, one Fed governor, Thomas Hoenig of Missouri, dissented, preferring to leave rates unchanged in another signal the Fed may be more hawkish than markets might have hoped. 

"This should not be read as the Fed closing the door on easing, but they are signalling the bar will be set quite high for them to cut at the next meeting," said Alan Ruskin, chief international strategist at RBS Greenwich Capital. 

The yield on the two-year note rose 12 basis points to a high of 3.92 per cent. Interest rate futures reflected lower odds of further rate cuts when the FOMC meets in December or early next year. The Fed is "telling you they're on hold probably through December", said Charles Comiskey, head of Treasury trading at HSBC. But investors continued to price in a high probability of a cut in rates to 4.25 per cent after the January FOMC meeting. 

The dollar fell to a new record low of $1.4495 against the euro. The broad equity benchmarks briefly erased gains and fell into negative territory, but later rallied. By the close of trading, the S&P 500 had risen 1.2 per cent from its low for the day. 

The Fed said in its statement accompanying the decision that "the pace of economic expansion will likely slow in the near-term" as the housing slump intensified. 

But it added that the second successive rate cut "should help forestall some of the adverse effects on the broader economy that might otherwise arise from the disruptions in financial markets and promote moderate growth over time". 

The Fed statement noted that while readings on "core inflation have improved modestly . . . recent increases in energy and commodity prices" may put "renewed upward pressure on inflation". 

This may reflect internal pressure from regional Fed presidents who fear an over-reaction to the credit squeeze could let inflation out of the bag. 

Disappointing banking earnings and downbeat corporate forecasts have added to concerns about a slowdown in activity, in spite of a strong overall economic performance last quarter. 

US third-quarter growth was its strongest since the start of last year, according to data yesterday showing gross domestic product rose at an annual rate of 3.9 per cent in the three months to the end of September. 

Additional reporting by Daniel Pimlott in New York  
   RF59752296   COrbsct : Royal Bank of Scotland Group PLC   INi81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | e1103 : Inflation/Prices | ecat : Economic News | gpol : Domestic Politics | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTCOM00020071101e3av0002z  



 HDFT.com site : Nikkei closes at two-week high.    BYLouise Lucas in Tokyo    WC236 words   PD1 November 2007   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPJapanese stocks got a boost on Thursday from the US Federal Reserve's latest interest rate cut and figures showing surprisingly strong US economic growth. 

The benchmark Nikkei 225 rose 0.8 per cent to 16,870.40, its highest close in a fortnight. The broader Topix gained 1 per cent to 1,635.78. 
   TDExporters led the charge, on hopes that lower US rates would encourage Americans to buy more Japanese goods. Investors were also cheered by data showing Asia's biggest export market grew at a 3.9 per cent annual rate in the third quarter. 

Sony, which has been on a roll since unveiling its interim results last week, jumped 3.4 per cent to Y5,830. 

Toyota, Japan's top automaker, climbed 2.7 per cent to Y6,750 while Nissan, the number two, closed up 4.2 per cent at Y1,381. 

Oil companies also had a good day, fuelled by a rise in oil prices to a fresh record above $96 a barrel. Nippon Oil put on 4.5 per cent to Y1,053. 

Bucking the trend, banks lost ground after the previous day's gains. Investors marked down Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, the country's biggest lender, by 1.8 per cent to Y1,119 while SMFG dropped 1.2 per cent to Y923,000.  
   RF59764155   COmitfin : Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Inc. | npnoil : Nippon Oil Corp   INi81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | i814 : Banking | i1 : Energy | i14 : Petroleum/Coal Products | i14001 : Petroleum Refining   NSm11 : Equity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1101 : Economic Growth | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REjap : Japan | usa : United States | asiaz : Asia | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTCOM00020071102e3b10000c  



 HDFretful Investors Shift Assets As Fed Strategy Haunts Dollar   BYBy Joanna Slater    WC832 words   PD31 October 2007   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGC1   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 2007, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LPWhile the prospect of an interest-rate cut by the Federal Reserve may generate cheers in the stock market, it is causing trouble for the dollar.

In anticipation of a Fed move this afternoon, the currency has hit a series of record lows against the euro in recent days. Late yesterday in New York, one euro fetched $1.4436. Against a broad group of currencies, the dollar is at its weakest point in 11 years.
   TDA rate cut means investors receive a lower return for holding dollars, which can prompt money to flow into investments in other currencies. Capital is "attracted to where it's treated best, essentially," says Alan Ruskin, chief international strategist at RBS Greenwich Capital. "One way it's well treated is a nice high return relative to risk."

The specter of lower returns, a slowing U.S. economy and further dollar weakness is pushing investors to seek higher profits elsewhere, particularly in emerging markets. At the end of last year, bond giant Pacific Investment Management Co., a unit of Allianz SE known as Pimco, managed $40 billion in these markets. Now, the total is $60 billion. Some of that increase is because of new business, but some is a result of shifts out of lower-yielding U.S.-dollar assets, said Curtis Mewbourne, Pimco's co-head of emerging markets.

"You're getting paid something in the order of 10% to 11% for being invested in Brazil, much higher than in the U.S.," he said. If the Brazilian real strengthens against the dollar at the same time, "You're winning on both fronts." Until recently, even as a slowing U.S. economy and large deficits weighed on the dollar, the relatively high level of interest rates meant the currency remained an attractive place to park cash.

Now that advantage is ebbing, following the Fed's move in September to lower its short-term target rate to 4.75% from 5.25%. With gloomy news from the housing market and mounting bank losses, investors expect the Fed to announce a quarter-point cut today. That stimulates the economy by making it cheaper to borrow, which in turn typically buoys stocks.

It is having the opposite effect on the dollar. When the Fed reduces interest rates and other major central banks don't follow suit, there is "a disincentive to invest in the U.S.," said Matthew Eagan, a bond-portfolio manager at Loomis Sayles &Co. in Boston. The funds Mr. Eagan helps manage have loaded up on investments in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, he said. "We're at our limits."

The underlying problem is that U.S. growth is slowing while the rest of the world pushes forward. That means the Fed is reducing rates at a time when other central banks are expected to hold rates steady or increase them.

The interplay between interest rates is a major factor in the dollar's recent lows against the euro. The 4.75% benchmark rate in the U.S. is higher than the euro zone's 4%, but the difference between the two used to be much larger. As recently as June, it was double what it is now. As that gap has narrowed, so has the premium investors receive for holding dollars instead of euros. "The anticipated reduction -- and erosion -- of the U.S. yield advantage is the main driver of the dollar's deepening losses," said Ashraf Laidi, chief currency analyst at CMC Markets in New York.

Bond investors see the effects of shifting expectations. A year ago, the yield on a two-year U.S. Treasury note was more than a percentage point higher than on a two-year German-government bond. Today, that same German bond offers a premium of nearly a fifth of a percentage point to its U.S. counterpart. Still, investors said in some ways the U.S. -- and the dollar -- benefit from the fact that in absolute terms, benchmark interest rates are higher than in Europe.

"Every single bank when they close their books is putting money here," said John Taylor, chief investment officer at FX Concepts, a New York-based currency hedge fund. "It's big and safe and liquid, and pays a high interest rate."

Some investors believe the market has become too bearish on the dollar. If there were another bout of market turbulence like the one in August, the currency could benefit as it did then. "The dollar always rallies as a safe-haven currency . . . when these vicious meltdowns occur," said Mark Farrington of Principal Global Investors in London.

Moreover, he said, it is unlikely the Fed will be the lone major central bank lowering rates, particularly because growth may have peaked in the United Kingdom, Europe and Japan. The interest-rate scenario the market expects "is not going to materialize," he said. 



License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   NSm13 : Money/Forex Markets | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | gvexe : Executive Branch | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REeurz : Europe | usa : United States | namz : North America   IPCPIC | FED | USG | NND | TFR | TPT   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument J000000020071031e3av0005z  


 SEThe Economy   HDWhy Rate Cut Isn't a Sure Thing --- Bowing to Market Pressure Could Prolong Dilemma For Fed's Policy Makers   BYBy Greg Ip    WC783 words   PD30 October 2007   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGA2   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 2007, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LPThe market is convinced the Federal Reserve will cut interest rates tomorrow, but for the Fed itself, it is a closer call.

The behavior of financial markets implies near certainty by investors of a quarter-point cut in the Fed's key short-term interest rate. But for policy makers, the decision is between the quarter-point reduction and no cut at all. A half-point cut is unlikely to get serious consideration from Fed officials, though some in the market expect it.
   TDBoth courses of action have risks. Perhaps the biggest is that the market's certainty that rates will be cut creates a burden on the Fed to deliver. Ordinarily, meeting market expectations isn't a goal in itself for the Fed.

But the current environment is more fragile than usual, and thus the consequences of disappointing the market are potentially more damaging. Against that, the Fed will have to weigh the risk that a cut will stoke inflationary psychology.

The Fed can mitigate the risks on either front with its accompanying statement. No rate cut could be accompanied by a statement opening the door to a future cut. A cut could be accompanied by a statement damping expectations of more reductions.

"I would guess market expectations would be the deciding factor," said Lou Crandall, chief economist at Wrightson ICAP, a research arm of ICAP, a money-market brokerage. Mr. Crandall doesn't expect a cut, citing the risk that doing so would prompt investors to expect another in December, putting the Fed in the same bind. On the other hand, he said if the Fed thinks it will cut eventually, market expectations may nudge it to do so now rather than later, he said.

On Sept. 18, the Fed cut its target for the federal funds rate, charged on overnight loans between banks, a larger-than-expected half a percentage point to 4.75%. Since then, market expectations of what the Fed would do at its two-day meeting that ends tomorrow have swung wildly.

Analysts' views moved in tandem. J.P. Morgan Chase originally called for a quarter-point cut, then revised that to no cut on Oct. 12 as stocks hit new highs and unemployment-insurance claims remained low. Then, "everything turned against us," said economist Michael Feroli. Housing data and financial markets weakened and in speeches Fed officials didn't counter rate-cut expectations. On Oct. 23, the firm again said the Fed would cut; 17 of 21 dealers surveyed by Dow Jones Newswires agree. Failure to deliver could cause credit markets to weaken and stocks to dive, Mr. Feroli warned: "I think it will be ugly."

As of yesterday, the implied probability of no change was 16%, according to options data analyzed by the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland; the probability of a quarter-point cut was 72%, and of half-a-point cut, 10%.

The case for remaining on hold comes down to the economic forecast. While housing data has deteriorated further, there is little sign so far that it has spilled over to the broader economy. Fed officials don't appear to have significantly altered their forecast of a return to moderate growth next year. Helped by last month's rate cut, many market interest rates have come down. Stocks have recovered from their swoon two weeks ago. While inflation concerns have receded, they haven't disappeared, especially given the dollar's drop.

Some officials may argue that, at 4.75%, the federal-funds rate is still high relative to underlying growth and inflation. But the biggest argument for cutting rates will be market expectations. Fed officials didn't intend to nudge the market to expect a rate cut, so they will have to weigh the possibility that markets are signaling a more pessimistic view on growth and credit markets than the Fed sees.

The Fed can use other tools to influence reactions to its rate action. If it cuts, the accompanying statement could damp expectations for more by suggesting the risks to growth have receded. It could go the added step of saying the risk of weaker growth equals the risk of higher inflation. If it stands pat, the statement could keep a later cut on the table by stressing continued risks to growth or market stability. Fed officials are weighing issuing more forecasts, and could do so at this meeting, perhaps for release with the minutes three weeks later. A forecast would provide context to the Fed's decision. 



License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | ecat : Economic News | gvexe : Executive Branch | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCPIC | FED | USG | NND | ECN | LMJ | TPT   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument J000000020071030e3au0002x  


 CLMAhead of the Tape   HDAhead of the Tape   BYBy Justin Lahart    WC592 words   PD1 November 2007   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGC1   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 2007, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LPBond Market

Talks -- and Fed
   TDListens Closely

It didn't take long after the Federal Reserve cut its target interest rate yesterday for the critics to complain that the central bank bent to Wall Street's wishes.

Given the critical role of the bond market in today's economy, the Fed probably didn't have much choice.

An interest-rate cut, meant to spur the economy, might have seemed incongruous on a day when third-quarter gross domestic product was reported to have grown at an annualized 3.9%. The Fed duly noted that credit strains and a worsening housing market will weigh on the economy. But it also said the risks of slower growth and rising inflation were in balance. That hardly sounds like a ringing endorsement for a rate cut.

But with credit markets still fragile, the market's expectation of lower rates may have been reason enough for the Fed to cut. If it didn't, it risked seeing a repeat of this summer's market panic -- and then being forced to cut rates even more, later.

"It's like monetary policy is being affected by the tantrums of Wall Street," says James Paulsen, chief investment officer at Wells Capital Management. "As every parent knows, the worst thing you can do is give in to a tantrum, because then you get five more of them."

The Fed's challenge is that at a time when loans of all sorts are bundled into securities and sold to investors around the world, the debt markets have final say in the availability of credit. More than $27 trillion in U.S. bonds outstanding are floating around out there. If markets run into trouble, it can create real economic pain.

Unlike with the banking system, the Fed has a limited regulatory role when it comes to global financial markets. That makes it hard for the central bank to give investors a timeout when they need one.

Auto-Sales Report Will Give

New Reading on Consumers

Economic growth in the third quarter was propelled in part by surprisingly robust consumer spending, which expanded at a 3% annual rate. But investors still worry consumers will buckle. That makes today's sales reports from auto makers a signpost for the consumer outlook.

It's hard to say the road ahead looks terribly bright in this sector. Auto researcher Edmunds.com estimates October car sales were down 1.6% from a year ago, adjusted for the number of selling days, after a 1% increase in September.

Soft results from auto dealers have raised red flags. Asbury Automotive Group and Group 1 Automotive, for example, this week both reported same-store sales declines from a year ago and reduced their earnings forecasts for the year. AutoNation, the nation's largest auto retailer, said new-vehicle sales in California and Florida, two big car markets that are being hit hard by housing, slid 11%.

An October survey by UBS showed 56% of auto dealers reported declines in floor traffic, more than the 41% who reported declines in August.

Despite the troubles, investors have kept buying auto-maker stocks. Most notably, General Motors is up more than 16% in the past three months. Its sales numbers today are likely to be better than Ford Motor's, but all in all, don't expect too much.

-- Scott Patterson

---

Send comments to justin.lahart@wsj.com or scott.patterson@wsj.com 



License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCPIC | FED | USG | CYC | NCY | NND | AOT | TFR   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument J000000020071101e3b10004q  


 HDBernanke, in First Crisis, Rewrites Fed Playbook --- Chief Taps Brain Trust To Ease Credit Crunch; Life After Greenspan   BYBy Greg Ip    WC3,753 words   PD31 October 2007   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGA1   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 2007, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   CXCorrections &Amplifications

New York Federal Reserve Bank President Timothy Geithner served in the U.S. Treasury from 1988 to 2001 during several presidencies. A graphic accompanying a page-one article yesterday on Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke incorrectly described the 1988 to 2001 period as the Clinton Treasury.

(WSJ Nov. 1, 2007)

(END) 
   LPWASHINGTON -- On the afternoon of Thursday, Aug. 9, with a panic driving up short-term interest rates in Europe and the U.S., Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke's office became a war room. His closest advisers took seats in the burgundy leather chairs around a coffee table or telephoned in from their now-aborted vacations.

Mr. Bernanke, a former academic vaulted 18 months earlier to the world's most powerful economic job, was seeking counsel from colleagues of all stripes, from a thirtysomething former investment banker to a Federal Reserve veteran of nearly four decades who had participated in almost every important Fed decision of the past 20 years. He pushed them to spit out as much information as possible about the day's events. What, he asked, do we know? What must we learn? And what are our options?
   TDThe roots of the crisis had been apparent for months. In rising numbers, homeowners with subprime mortgages -- those made to the least credit-worthy home buyers -- were delinquent on payments. Hedge funds and other institutions had bought opaque securities backed by these mortgages, but they were difficult to value and potentially hard to trade. That morning it became clear that European banks had more exposure than previously thought, sparking a scramble for cash by some banks and a reluctance to lend that instantly jumped the Atlantic.

The Aug. 9 meeting in Mr. Bernanke's office kicked off weeks of brainstorming over ways to restore calm to credit markets. The wide-ranging tone of the subsequent discussions was encapsulated in subject lines of some emails Mr. Bernanke and his aides exchanged: "blue sky." One Fed governor spent hours on the phone grilling contacts on Wall Street. Another official helped broker a deal to help mortgage lender Countrywide Financial Corp. through a financing squeeze, aiming to avert a disruptive unwinding of complex loan agreements.

In those next hours and days, the Fed insiders would determine the U.S. response to the looming financial crisis. They would also help define the reign of Mr. Bernanke, who faced his first major test since taking over as Fed chief from the larger-than-life Alan Greenspan.

Mr. Bernanke's preparations and his handling of the scare were described by current and former Fed insiders, private sector officials who deal with the Fed, and public documents. The resulting portrait offers the clearest demonstration so far of how he differs from his predecessor. Though an introvert like Mr. Greenspan, Mr. Bernanke has cultivated a more open and collaborative process, striving to draw out all sides of a debate and forcing participants to test their assumptions. Mr. Bernanke is also creative in seeking ways to stabilize the financial system beyond the rate-cut weapon that Mr. Greenspan wielded more readily.

"There's more of the economic seminar room, of exchanging views and thinking out loud," says Vincent Reinhart, who was an adviser to both men before leaving the Fed in September.

Whether Mr. Bernanke made the right calls in the most severe shock to U.S. financial markets since Sept. 11, 2001, will be clear only in hindsight. Critics charge that he and his colleagues, prior to August, underestimated the housing bust's magnitude and its potential spillover to markets. They say the Fed team should have shifted its focus from inflation to the slowing economy far sooner. Its efforts to restore order through the Fed's little-used discount window have shown limited results.

Today, Mr. Bernanke faces another delicate decision on whether to cut interest rates for the second time since credit markets began gyrating. Markets place high odds on a quarter-point cut.

Nonetheless, he has dispelled some doubts about the ability of a former academic to run the world's most powerful central bank in time of crisis. Should that hold, this could have a calming effect on markets that could work to his advantage during future turmoil. "I was concerned that his academic strength did not give him the market savvy he needed," says Stephen Roach, Asia chairman of Morgan Stanley. "His performance has allayed my concerns."

As markets deteriorated in early August, Mr. Bernanke kept a low public profile. But he canceled plans for a family vacation to Charlotte, N.C., and Myrtle Beach, S.C., and began leaving his home near the U.S. Capitol to arrive at the Fed building by 7 a.m., staying 12 hours or more. There was no time to play basketball with the staff, as he did in calmer times, but occasionally he would exchange his suit for a T-shirt and gym shorts to shoot baskets or lift weights alone at the Fed gym.

Mr. Bernanke had been preparing for the crisis for much of his adult life. He grew up in a small South Carolina town, the son of the local drugstore owner. He received his Ph.D. in economics from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1979 and spent the next 23 years in academia, most of it at Princeton University.

He has long taken exception to suggestions that he lacks Mr. Greenspan's feel for the markets. Much of his career he has studied how the financial system and the economy interact, in particular during the Great Depression. He told a Fed conference in 1999 that one of the key mistakes the Fed made during the Depression was "to allow the financial system to collapse."

When he took office, he had spent three years as a Fed governor under Mr. Greenspan and seven months as chairman of President George W. Bush's Council of Economic Advisers, and was comfortable with his grasp of the economy and monetary policy. But he set out systematically to learn the nitty-gritty of the Fed's operations, such as its oversight of the financial plumbing that the central bank maintains so banks can move large sums to each other. With less time to peruse cutting-edge academic papers, he tasked a staffer with sending him a selection that he spends a few hours each week reading.

Mr. Bernanke was no stranger to central bankers, but he was a neophyte to the schmoozing of Washington and Wall Street. To help him make connections, Timothy Geithner, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and a veteran of the Clinton Treasury, arranged breakfasts and lunches at the New York Fed between Mr. Bernanke and financial "wise men." Guests included Citigroup executive and former Treasury secretary Robert Rubin, and former J.P. Morgan &Co. chairman Dennis Weatherstone.

The talk ranged from the gaping U.S. trade deficit to the "enormous amount of capital sloshing around the world in perhaps-not-fully-understood instruments," one participant recalled. Mr. Bernanke listened carefully but gave away nothing.

Mr. Bernanke asked an existing Fed staff task force to prepare twice-a-year "financial stability reports," similar to those Mr. Geithner had ordered up from his own staff at the New York Fed. He also asked for a "crisis manual," which runs several hundred pages and includes details on the Fed's response to crises such as the 1970 Penn Central Railroad collapse. An accompanying internal Fed Web site allows officials to view contact information for counterparts around the world or see how credit derivatives of major banks are behaving.

The reports and crisis manual contemplated numerous scenarios -- the failure of a major bank, a surge in defaults of a major bank's mortgage portfolio. The standard recommendation: Provide lots of cash to the financial system.

The Federal Open Market Committee is the Fed's key decision-making body, comprising the Fed's five current governors in Washington and presidents of the 12 regional Fed banks. The FOMC meets about every six weeks to decide on, and announce, interest-rate adjustments. When its members gathered around the massive oval table in the boardroom adjacent to Mr. Bernanke's office on Aug. 7, the staff detailed the growing tension in financial markets: Subprime losses had sunk several hedge funds and forced the German government to bail out a bank. Investors were shunning all but the safest mortgage-backed securities.

Yet several members reported that the economy was still growing moderately despite the housing slump, and tight labor markets were putting upward pressure on some wages. At the meeting's end, the committee publicly reiterated its view: The main risk to the economy remained inflation.

That disappointed Wall Street. Questions about Mr. Bernanke's market savvy resurfaced. "It is a credit collapse that is the far greater risk here," Brian Barish, a Denver fund manager, told The Wall Street Journal at the time. "Academics look at historical statistics and are rearward looking."

On Aug. 8, Mr. Rubin called Mr. Bernanke. The Citigroup executive said he suspected a lot of people were telling Mr. Bernanke he should have cut rates. Yet Mr. Rubin said he thought the Fed had done the right thing, say people familiar with the call.

The world changed before markets opened in the U.S. the next day, Aug. 9. A French bank suspended redemptions in some investment funds, citing an inability to value them, driving up the demand for cash. The European Central Bank acted fast, offering unlimited funds at its target interest rate of 4%. It ultimately lent a staggering <euro>95 billion that day, or $131 billion.

The Bernanke brain trust was taken aback by the scale of the ECB's actions, and they assembled in his office that Thursday afternoon. On the phone were Mr. Geithner, in Cape Cod where his vacation had been interrupted, and William Dudley, a former Goldman Sachs economist who had become the New York Fed's markets chief eight months earlier. Also on the line was Fed Vice Chairman Donald Kohn. A 37-year Fed veteran, Mr. Kohn, 64, was Mr. Greenspan's closest adviser and is steeped in the history of Fed policy making. He keeps a binder on his desk of every FOMC statement since the first in 1994.

In the room were several senior staffers and a governor Kevin Warsh, 37, a former Morgan Stanley banker who spent four years on the staff of the Bush White House's National Economic Council. When he was nominated last year to become the youngest Fed governor in history, critics questioned his credentials, youth and administration ties. But at the Fed, he impressed colleagues. Mr. Bernanke had collaborated with Mr. Warsh on presentations to President Bush while both were at the White House. The Fed chief trusted Mr. Warsh's political instincts and market insight.

The Dow Jones Industrial Average was down 387 points that day and the scramble for cash had driven short-term interest rates above the Fed's 5.25% target. As he would time and again over coming weeks, Mr. Bernanke had to balance responding with enough force to keep markets functioning, but not with so much force as to suggest panic. Copying the ECB, he and colleagues agreed, risked conveying a sense of alarm they did not feel. Nonetheless, Mr. Geithner told the group it was better to err on the side of force than gradualism. That day, in a bid to suppress a rise in interest rates, the Fed increased the size of its daily money-market operations, in which it makes short-term loans to money-market dealers.

The next day, Friday, Aug. 10, after an early conference call with the FOMC, the Fed released its first public statement on the crisis. It promised to provide enough liquidity "to facilitate the orderly functioning of financial markets."

The next week, Mr. Warsh threw himself into the task of assessing markets, where investors and firms were finding it increasingly difficult to determine the value of all sorts of securities and thus to trade them. In his first year at the Fed he had spent several days a week in New York, where his wife, a cosmetics company executive, lived. Often working from an empty executive office at the New York Fed, he would gather insight from contacts he had made while at Morgan Stanley and the White House, from Wall Street trading floors and investment-bank syndication desks to hedge funds and college endowments.

Now he made full use of that Rolodex, placing more than a dozen calls a day to ask about deal backlogs, the ability of counterparties to agree on prices and the willingness of investors to buy risky paper. He jotted down what he learned in brown notepads and provided his analysis to the group in Mr. Bernanke's office. Often he and Mr. Geithner spoke to different officials from the same firm, providing a snapshot from the chief executive's office to the trading desk.

As the week progressed, Fed officials made a troubling discovery: They had assumed banks, financially healthier than they were 15 years ago, would be a pillar of stability. But banks were increasingly reluctant to lend to each other and increasingly unable to borrow for more than a few days. Their "knees were knocking," Mr. Warsh reported to his colleagues. Opportunistic buyers -- the investors who buy when everyone else is selling -- didn't want short-term IOUs known as asset-backed commercial paper at "any price," Mr. Warsh told them.

Six days after the crisis began, on Wednesday, Aug. 15, a new threat emerged, from Countrywide Financial Corp., the country's largest mortgage lender. For years, Countrywide had relied largely on short-term borrowings to write mortgages, before selling the loans to investors, usually in the form of mortgage-backed securities. Now Countrywide was finding it increasingly difficult to sell its mortgages or raise funds. It notified bankers that it planned to draw down an $11.5 billion credit line it had arranged for such a contingency.

That created a serious threat. Countrywide had borrowed significant sums by using mortgages, Treasury securities and other securities as collateral for overnight loans from institutional investors, with Bank of New York Mellon Corp. acting as custodian. Now, Bank of New York wanted additional collateral in case Countrywide could not roll those loans over, leaving it dependent on the bank for funding. Without a resolution, Bank of New York might liquidate billions of dollars worth of Countrywide's collateral, likely undermining already waning market confidence.

The Bank of New York asked the New York Fed for help. Mr. Geithner and his staff mediated. Mr. Geithner left after midnight with instructions to be called if the discussions fell apart. Eventually, the two sides agreed on additional collateral. "We worked it out beautifully," Countrywide CEO Angelo Mozilo said.

The next morning -- Thursday, Aug. 16 -- Countrywide announced it had tapped its credit lines, adding to the gloom in the markets. Yields on corporate bonds climbed and stocks gyrated.

Mr. Bernanke and his colleagues had been meeting twice a day in his office via teleconference. On that morning's call, they concluded it was time to act.

None argued for an immediate cut in the Fed's key interest rate, the federal-funds rate. Mr. Bernanke wanted to emphasize that the Fed had two distinct roles. One was stabilizing the economy with interest rates. The other was acting as lender of last resort, which means providing cash to prevent market participants from liquidating good assets at fire-sale prices.

An important consideration for Mr. Bernanke was the risk that cutting the target for the Fed's key interest rate before the FOMC's regular meeting, scheduled for a month later, would be seen as a sign he was more concerned about protecting banks and investors than about inflation. He wanted to avoid fanning "moral hazard" -- the notion that rate cuts would bail out parties who made risky bets, encouraging more of the same behavior.

To Mr. Kohn, the four-decade Fed veteran, the distinction between the Fed's two roles was not so black and white: His years under Mr. Greenspan had taught him that limiting the economic damage of financial turbulence often required cutting interest rates. Yet he was not a fan of cutting rates between regularly scheduled Fed meetings.

In the summer of 1998, when a global financial crisis intensified, Mr. Kohn had helped Mr. Greenspan write a few phrases into a previously drafted speech: The U.S. wouldn't be able to remain "an oasis of prosperity" amid such turmoil. It was a deliberate signal that the Fed would probably cut interest rates at its next scheduled meeting. Markets began anticipating a rate cut that the FOMC delivered a few weeks later.

Messrs. Bernanke, Kohn and Geithner settled on a similar approach, with a difference that underscores the new Fed chairman's collegial approach. He didn't have a speech scheduled for several weeks, and in any case, he had been laboring to shift the market's focus from his own utterances to the formal statements of the FOMC. So he drafted a statement and asked the full committee to approve it in a videoconference that evening. It would be released the next morning, announcing the Fed's heightened concerns about growth, assuring investors the Fed was on the case even if it wasn't cutting rates immediately.

As to how the Fed would stabilize the financial system, officials had spent the week reviewing options. The only mortgages the Fed accepts as collateral in open-market operations are those backed by the federal government or federally chartered Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Now, it asked: Could the Fed inject cash into money markets by accepting other mortgages as well, as many on Wall Street were requesting? Almost certainly not, a team of Fed attorneys concluded. Could the Fed lend directly to companies that aren't banks, such as mortgage-finance companies? Yes, but it hadn't done so since the 1930s.

As Mr. Bernanke's precrisis planning had indicated, the so-called discount window would play an important part in the response. The window was the Fed's central tool at the time of its creation in 1913. A bank facing a loss of deposits could borrow from the window, putting up collateral such as commercial loans, discounted from their face value. The window had fallen into disuse over the years and borrowing from it now carried a stigma -- it was seen as a sign of desperation for banks unable to borrow elsewhere. The discount rate usually sits a full percentage point above the federal-funds rate, so most banks can find cheaper funds elsewhere.

In the end, Mr. Bernanke and his group agreed that day the Fed should lower its discount rate by half a percentage point and extend the term of such loans to 30 days from one. It was classic central banking as described by 19th-century British author Walter Bagehot: In times of stress, lend freely against good collateral, but at a penalty rate. (The lower discount rate remains one-half percent point higher than the federal-funds rate, at which banks lend to each other.)

Mr. Bernanke convened a videoconference for the FOMC for that evening and quickly got approval. On the morning of Friday, Aug. 17, the Fed said that in contrast to its Aug. 7 diagnosis, it now saw that the "downside risks to growth have increased appreciably." This validated market expectations that a cut was likely. Stocks rallied on the statement and discount-window changes; the Dow industrials rose 233 points.

The following week, financial market conditions began to improve, but only haltingly. Mr. Geithner had to encourage several banks to borrow from the discount window.

With Sept. 18's policy meeting a month away, Mr. Bernanke was coming around to the view the Fed would have to cushion the blow to the overall economy by also lowering its federal-funds rate. His academic research had demonstrated that falling home prices could bankrupt borrowers and dry up bank lending, hurting growth far more than implied by the mere loss of housing wealth.

He gave the first hint a federal-funds rate cut was on the table on Aug. 31, at a conference on housing at a lodge at the foot of the Teton mountains in Jackson Hole, Wyo. Speaking to a hall crowded with central bankers and economists, he said it is not the Fed's job to protect investors from their mistakes. But market developments "can have broad economic effects felt by many outside the markets, and the Federal Reserve must take those effects into account," he said.

The experience of 1998, when a quarter-point cut failed to restore confidence and had to be followed with two more, argued for a bigger rate cut now. Mr. Bernanke and Mr. Kohn called members of the FOMC to garner support for a half-point cut.

Several regional bank presidents preferred a quarter-point cut. Some members worried about encouraging more speculation later. But ultimately all those with a vote -- all 12 regional bank presidents participate in interest-rate deliberations, but only five vote -- supported a half-point cut. The vote, and announcement, came on Sept. 18.

Wall Street, expecting a quarter-point cut, was thrilled. The Dow Jones Industrial Average soared 336 points and hit a new record 13 days later.

A week later, Mr. Bernanke met representatives of the hedge-fund trade association, the Managed Funds Association, in a session he had requested months earlier to bone up on hedge funds. Now his focus had changed. He zeroed in on the potential for hedge funds to add to market stress. Were investors asking for big redemptions? How were funds valuing their illiquid holdings? Were brokers asking for more collateral? The group, participants say, assured him that hedge funds had seen nothing unusual and were not making matters worse.

As the meeting ended, an attendee recalled, one of the hedge-fund representatives said, "See you again next year." In an apparent reference to the still-fragile state of markets, Mr. Bernanke replied: "If not sooner."

---

James R. Hagerty and Robin Sidel contributed to this article. 





License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   INi831 : Financial Investments | iinv : Investing/Securities   NSe1122 : Mortgage Applications/Refinancing | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvexe : Executive Branch | ncrx : Corrected Items | npag : Page-One Story | npeo : People Profile | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gvbod : Government Bodies | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCPIC | FED | USG | MMR | NND | LFT | PGO   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument J000000020071031e3av0005u  


 HDTheFXSpot: Dlr Loses More  Interest Rate  Allure; US Data Looms      WC625 words   PD31 October 2007   ET21:50   SNMarket News International   SCMARNEW   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007. Market News International, Inc.   
   TD

By Vicki Schmelzer 

     NEW YORK, Oct 31 (MNI) - A 25-basis-point Fed cut, while expected, 
nevertheless chipped away at the greenback's already limited interest 
rate allure and sent the euro and other non-dollar currencies flying 
higher Wednesday. 
     
     The Federal Reserve lowered the fed funds rate 25 basis points to 
4.50% and also lowered the discount rate 25 basis points to 5.0%, both 
largely in line with market expectations. 

     Earlier in the day, Wednesday's release of advance Q3 GDP data, 
showing U.S. growth at a solid 3.9% vs estimates of 3.1%, prompted a few 
players to wonder if the Fed might not ease at all. 

     The Fed followed through with the interest rate cut that the market 
had priced in, but also offered a more balanced accompanying statement. 

     "The Committee judges that, after this action, the upside risks to 
inflation roughly balance the downside risks to growth," the Fed said.

     The dollar saw only limited benefit from what might be considered 
a door closing on future Fed cuts.

     Euro-dollar closed at $1.4485, down from the new life highs 
at $1.4508, posted after the Fed decision.

     Sterling held at $2.0789, down from a new twenty six year high near
$2.0822 and dollar-Canada at C$0.9441, not far from the new multi-decade 
lows near C$0.9439 seen heading into the close.
.
     U.S. stocks rallied as the dollar fell, with the S&P 500 closing up 
1.20% at 1,549.38

     "I can't recall a time ever when stock prices were at all-time 
highs, GDP was near 4.0% and the U.S. dollar was making all time lows... 
and the Federal Reserve was cutting interest rates," said Andy Busch, 
currency strategist at BMO Capital Markets in an update. 

     He disagreed with the notion that the structure of the U.S. yield 
curve suggests that short term rates are too high.

     Busch maintained that "long term rates are too low and don't 
reflect the stronger than expected economic growth and a Federal reserve 
strongly erring on the side of additional liquidity."

     The Fed decision and statement "may ignite a much larger dollar 
sell-off," he added.

     With the Fed meeting over, the focus now shifts to the week's 
remaining U.S. data, with eyes on two key releases, i.e. October ISM 
due out Thursday and non-farm payrolls due out Friday. 

     The median estimate in a Market News International survey of 
economists looks for ISM to fall to 51.5 from 52.0 in September and for 
payrolls to rise by 80,000. 

     Estimates for ISM range from 50.0 to 53.0 and for non-farm payrolls 
from +10,000 to +110,000. The jobless rate is expected to remain 
unchanged at 4.70% in October. 

      Dollar Rates in New York Trade:  

                    Eur-Dlr   Dlr-Yen   Eur-Yen   Stg-Dlr  Dlr-Swiss

    4:06 p.m.       1.4485    115.35    167.08    2.0789    1.1584
    3:03 p.m.       1.4495    115.29    167.11    2.0813    1.1572
    2:10 p.m.       1.4458    115.21    166.57    2.0777    1.1600
   11:03 a.m.       1.4448    115.40    166.73    2.0719    1.1606
    9:45 a.m.       1.4450    115.29    166.59    2.0725    1.1601
    7:30 a.m. Wed   1.4452    115.11    166.36    2.0718    1.1594
    3:28 p.m. Tue   1.4438    114.72    165.65    2.0688    1.1586 
                                                                                          
         -- 212-669-6438; e-mail: vschmelzer@marketnews.com 

  ** Market News International New York Newsroom: 212-669-6430 **   
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBMarket News International, Inc.   ANDocument MARNEW0020071101e3av00038  



 HDRepeat:TheFXSpot:Dollar Loses More  Interest Rate  Allures      WC630 words   PD1 November 2007   ET06:34   SNMarket News International   SCMARNEW   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007. Market News International, Inc.   
   TD
--Retransmitting Story Published 16:50 ET Wednesday 

By Vicki Schmelzer 

     NEW YORK, Oct 31 (MNI) - A 25-basis-point Fed cut, while expected, 
nevertheless chipped away at the greenback's already limited interest 
rate allure and sent the euro and other non-dollar currencies flying 
higher Wednesday. 
     
     The Federal Reserve lowered the fed funds rate 25 basis points to 
4.50% and also lowered the discount rate 25 basis points to 5.0%, both 
largely in line with market expectations. 

     Earlier in the day, Wednesday's release of advance Q3 GDP data, 
showing U.S. growth at a solid 3.9% vs estimates of 3.1%, prompted a few 
players to wonder if the Fed might not ease at all. 

     The Fed followed through with the interest rate cut that the market 
had priced in, but also offered a more balanced accompanying statement. 

     "The Committee judges that, after this action, the upside risks to 
inflation roughly balance the downside risks to growth," the Fed said.

     The dollar saw only limited benefit from what might be considered 
a door closing on future Fed cuts.

     Euro-dollar closed at $1.4485, down from the new life highs 
at $1.4508, posted after the Fed decision.

     Sterling held at $2.0789, down from a new twenty six year high near
$2.0822 and dollar-Canada at C$0.9441, not far from the new multi-decade 
lows near C$0.9439 seen heading into the close.
.
     U.S. stocks rallied as the dollar fell, with the S&P 500 closing up 
1.20% at 1,549.38

     "I can't recall a time ever when stock prices were at all-time 
highs, GDP was near 4.0% and the U.S. dollar was making all time lows... 
and the Federal Reserve was cutting interest rates," said Andy Busch, 
currency strategist at BMO Capital Markets in an update. 

     He disagreed with the notion that the structure of the U.S. yield 
curve suggests that short term rates are too high.

     Busch maintained that "long term rates are too low and don't 
reflect the stronger than expected economic growth and a Federal reserve 
strongly erring on the side of additional liquidity."

     The Fed decision and statement "may ignite a much larger dollar 
sell-off," he added.

     With the Fed meeting over, the focus now shifts to the week's 
remaining U.S. data, with eyes on two key releases, i.e. October ISM 
due out Thursday and non-farm payrolls due out Friday. 

     The median estimate in a Market News International survey of 
economists looks for ISM to fall to 51.5 from 52.0 in September and for 
payrolls to rise by 80,000. 

     Estimates for ISM range from 50.0 to 53.0 and for non-farm payrolls 
from +10,000 to +110,000. The jobless rate is expected to remain 
unchanged at 4.70% in October. 

      Dollar Rates in New York Trade:  

                    Eur-Dlr   Dlr-Yen   Eur-Yen   Stg-Dlr  Dlr-Swiss

    4:06 p.m.       1.4485    115.35    167.08    2.0789    1.1584
    3:03 p.m.       1.4495    115.29    167.11    2.0813    1.1572
    2:10 p.m.       1.4458    115.21    166.57    2.0777    1.1600
   11:03 a.m.       1.4448    115.40    166.73    2.0719    1.1606
    9:45 a.m.       1.4450    115.29    166.59    2.0725    1.1601
    7:30 a.m. Wed   1.4452    115.11    166.36    2.0718    1.1594
    3:28 p.m. Tue   1.4438    114.72    165.65    2.0688    1.1586 
                                                                                          
         -- 212-669-6438; e-mail: vschmelzer@marketnews.com 

  ** Market News International New York Newsroom: 212-669-6430 **   
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBMarket News International, Inc.   ANDocument MARNEW0020071101e3b10006n  



 SEMARKETS &INVESTING   HDFalling US interest rates raise radical carry trade questions.    BYBy PETER GARNHAM    WC611 words   PD30 October 2007   SNFinancial Times   SCFTFT   EDAsia Ed1   PGPage 24   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPIs the dollar set to join the yen and the Swiss franc as a carry trade funding currency? 

Both the yen and Swiss franc have been pushed to multi-year lows this year as carry trade investors have sold the low-yielding currencies to fund the purchase of riskier, higher-yielding assets elsewhere. 
   TDHowever, the dollar has come under similar pressure in recent weeks, hitting a series of multi-year troughs. 

Yesterday, it dropped to a record low against the euro, a 47-year low against the Canadian dollar and its weakest level in 23 years against the Australian dollar. Meanwhile, the dollar index, which tracks its value against a basket of six major currencies, fell to its lowest level for 34 years. 

Expectations of interest rate cuts in the US have been the main driver of dollar weakness, with the Federal Reserve widely predicted to deliver a 25 basis point cut to 4.5 per cent after its policy meeting tomorrow. 

A 25bp cut from the Fed would bring US interest rates to the same level as Canada for the first time since February 2005 and also reduce the dollar's yield advantage over the euro to the lowest level since February 2005. 

Indeed, markets yesterday moved to price in lower interest rates in the US than in the eurozone by June 2008. 

This is the first time since 2003 that eurozone interest rates have been priced higher than those in the US, and it means the dollar would have the third lowest yield among the major currencies, with only the yen and the Swiss franc with lower interest rates. 

Analysts say despite the dollar's absolute interest rate advantage over some currencies, such as the Canadian dollar, the yen and the Swiss franc, it is the expectation of further currency losses that is predicted to erode the remaining rate differential. 

"FX carry trades not only thrive on the anticipated reduction in a nation's interest rate against other nations but also in the resulting decline in the value of that currency ahead of further interest rate reductions," says Ashraf Laidi at CMC Markets. 

He says the onset of prolonged US interest rate cuts is matched by the likelihood of non-US interest rates remaining unchanged or even rising in the short-term as in the case of Australia. 

"The anticipated reduction of the US yield advantage is the main driver of the dollar's deepening losses, which outweigh the current yield advantage of the dollar over these currencies," he says. 

However, Ashley Davies at UBS says investors should be wary of concluding that declining US interest rates automatically translate into the dollar being used as a carry trade funding currency. 

He says unlike the yen or the Swiss franc, the dollar is not backed by a country with a large current account surplus or a large stock of savings ready to be deployed abroad. He also says volatility in global markets - the lack of which is a crucial factor in the success of carry trade strategies - appears to have risen structurally following the recent subprime mortgage crisis and will likely continue to rise next year. 

He believes the dollar has been weakening less because of carry outflows and more because of diversification activity, as China manages the renminbi against the dollar by buying the euro. 

"At some point, the Chinese will desire a stronger currency in trade-weighted terms and when that happens, official buying of euros will dry up and the relentless downward pressure on the dollar will cease," he says.  
   RF20071030A124.279   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTFT000020071030e3au0002e  



 HD Federal Reserve  cuts  interest rate  to help ease strain of housing slump on economy      BYBy JEANNINE AVERSA      CRAP Economics Writer   WC991 words   PD31 October 2007   ET22:37   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPWASHINGTON (AP) - Borrowers beware: Don't count on yet another dose of interest rate relief from the Federal Reserve this year.   

The Fed sliced an important interest rate Wednesday -- its second reduction in the last six weeks -- to help the economy survive the strains of a deepening housing slump that is likely to crimp growth in coming months.   
   TDAt the same time, Fed policymakers signaled that those rate reductions may be sufficient to help the economy get through its trouble spots.   

When the Fed meets next in December, economists said the odds are now much higher that the Fed will leave rates alone. "They are more likely to hold rates, rather than cut them," said Brian Bethune, economist at Global Insight.   

Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke and all but one of his colleagues agreed to lower the federal funds rate by one-quarter percentage point to 4.50 percent at the end of a two-day meeting on Wednesday.   

"The pace of economic expansion will likely slow in the near term, partly reflecting the intensification of the housing correction," the Fed acknowledged in a statement explaining its action.   

The funds rate affects many other interest rates charged to millions of individuals and businesses and is the Fed's most potent tool for influencing economic activity.   

In response, commercial banks, including  Bank of America,  Wells Fargo and KeyCorp., announced they were cutting their prime lending rate -- for certain credit cards, home equity lines of credit and other loans -- by a corresponding amount, to 7.50 percent.   

The rationale behind the cuts is that the lower borrowing costs will induce people and businesses to boost spending, energizing economic activity.   

Wall Street was cheered by the Fed action. The Dow Jones industrials jumped 137.54 points to close at 13,930.01.   

The Fed policymakers supporting Wednesday's rate cut said the action -- along with a rate reduction in September -- was needed to "forestall some of the adverse effects on the broader economy" that might arise from the housing and credit troubles that have wreaked havoc on Wall Street over the past few months.   

But Wednesday's cut could be the last for a while.   

Fed policymakers said the risks to the economy from inflation "roughly balance," or are equal to, the risks of a serious downturn in economic growth. Previously, the risks of recession were seen as more of a threat to the country's economic health.   

"The message: They are now done for the time being," said Lynn Reaser, chief economist at  Bank of America's Investment Strategies Group. "They have taken out a significant insurance policy and now they believe they are fully covered against a recession risk -- at least for the near term," she said.   

Stuart Hoffman, chief economist at  PNC Financial Services Group, wrote that the Fed's "intent here is to vaporize market expectations of another rate cut" at the December meeting.   

For now, economists think the Fed will leave the funds rate alone when its meets Dec. 11, the last session of the year.   

The 9-1 decision to cut rates Wednesday was opposed by Thomas Hoenig, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City. He preferred no change in the funds rate.   

So far, the economy has shown amazing resilience to the housing and credit strains.   

The economy grew at a brisk 3.9 percent pace in the summer, the fastest in 1 1/2 years, the government reported Wednesday. The impressive performance came even as the housing market sank deeper into the doldrums.   

Fed policymakers, in their statement, said the economy turned in a "solid" performance in the third quarter. They also said that "strains from financial markets have eased somewhat on balance."   

Even so, economic growth is expected to slow to a pace of around 2 percent or less in the current October-to-December period as the toll of the deteriorating housing market catches up with consumers and chills their spending.   

As another bolstering move, the Fed also sliced its lending rate to banks by one-quarter percentage point on Wednesday. That was the third cut to that rate since mid-August.   

Complicating the Fed's job to keep the economy and inflation on an even keel is surging oil prices. They soared to a record near $95 a barrel on Wednesday.   

The Fed said "recent increases in energy and commodity prices, among other factors, have put renewed upward pressure on inflation." The Fed said that while some inflation barometers that exclude energy and food prices have improved modestly this year, some inflation risks remain. They pledged to "monitor inflation developments carefully."   

If rising oil prices boost the cost of many other goods and services, then inflation could take off. At the same time, high energy prices could crimp consumer and business spending, putting another damper on overall economic activity.   

Although the economy performed well in the third quarter, the housing slump deepened. It shaved more than a full percentage point off economic growth.   

The meltdown in the mortgage market has made it harder for people to obtain financing to buy homes. That's aggravating problems in the housing market and leading to a mounting pileup of unsold homes. The housing slump is expected to drag on well into next year and foreclosures are expected to rise.   

The Fed on Sept. 18 lowered its key interest rate for the first time in more than four years. It was seen as a pre-emptive strike to ensure housing and credit problems don't sink the economy. The Fed's aggressive action at that time prompted a rally on Wall Street, propelling the Dow Jones industrials up by nearly 336 points. It was the Dow's biggest one-day point jump in nearly five years.   

------   

On the Net:   

Federal Reserve:   http://www.federalreserve.gov/  
   RF7   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | e1101 : Economic Growth | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagdsp | sel----- | catw   IPDAP National News | Washington | Fed Interest Rates Optional | D8SKFCDG1   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020071031e3av003vp  



 HDTheFXSpot: Euro Retreats Below $1.45 Life-Highs;Payrolls Eyed      WC1,198 words   PD1 November 2007   ET19:48   SNMarket News International   SCMARNEW   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007. Market News International, Inc.   
   TD

By Vicki Schmelzer 

     NEW YORK, Nov 1 (MNI) - The euro's retreat from new-life highs 
over $1.4500 was seen as a temporary phenomenon, with market players 
still geared up for a move to $1.5000, perhaps even by year-end. 

     Euro-dollar was trading at $1.4445 Thursday, down from the $1.4510 
life high posted Wednesday after the Federal Reserve lowered rates as 
expected, and up from earlier lows around $1.4404.

     With U.S. stocks under hefty pressure in afternoon action, the euro 
was weighed by cross unwinds in euro-yen, euro-sterling etc. as well 
as by general profit-taking ahead of Friday's U.S. payrolls report. 

     Traders maintained that while resistance in the $1.4500 to $1.4600 
zone may be formidable, there is nothing to prevent a further rally -- 
unless there is a sharp shift in FX sentiment, which seems unlikely at 
the moment. 

     Aside from $1.4500 being a "round number" in itself, there are dual 
the dual hurdles beyond that, at $1.4536 (1995 dollar low/Deutsche mark 
peak) and $1.4586 (synthetic euro high from September 1992) that may 
stall initial gains. 

     Looking out even further, Market News International notes a 2.00% 
moving average envelope at $1.4637 and a "projected resistance line from 
August 24 at $1.4848." 

     All of these levels, including $1.5000, are mere "numbers" and 
other than their shock value when broken, might not mean much in terms 
of how far the euro rally will extend going forward. 

     Making comparisons to the Deutsch-mark are common and used as a 
roadmap to gauge where the euro might be headed. 

     And yet, the post-1999 euro looks very little like the pre-1999 
Deutsche-mark. 

     In 1995, dollar-Dmark was in the process of bottoming out around 
what would be the current equivalent of $1.4536. 

     The Federal Reserve was in the process of raising rates, with fed 
funds rate at 6.0% and the Bundesbank was in easing mode, with the 
discount rate at 4.0% and lombard rate at 6.0%. 

     Currently, the fed funds rate stands at 4.50% and the European 
Central Bank's minimum refi bid at 4.0%. 

     Shrinking interest rate differentials over the past 12 years, 
combined with respected ECB monetary policy management, has made the 
euro a viable competitor to the dollar. 

     World central banks and Sovereign Wealth Funds are expected to add 
to their euro holdings in coming years and this is expected to further 
weigh on the dollar and lift the euro. 

     A $1.5000-plus euro may easily be seen as a result of this 
diversification, analysts said. 

     And while the threat of a U.S. recession has diminished in the 
short-term, there are justifiable concerns about further fallout from 
the housing sector that may yet prompt the Fed to ease. 

     The prospects of an Fed ease at a time of rising inflation, makes a 
dollar short even more palatable. 

     Sky-high commodity prices have hurt the U.S. more than other 
countries, given that commodities are priced in dollars. 

     "The only place this is engendering inflation is the U.S. as 
everyone else looks back on the price impact domestically, " said one 
U.K. strategist. 

     "The U.S. does not produce these commodities -- it is a net 
importer -- so why price them in dollars?" he asked. 

     A $1.40ish euro currently, with oil hitting $94.70/barrel and gold 
nearly $800, means an oil price of E67.60 and gold at E571, the 
strategist noted. 

     This is compared to $1.30ish euro prices of E45.40 and E530 seen in 
February, when oil prices were about $59.00/barrel and gold hit a high 
near $689.00. 

     "I would not switch from the dollar at these levels if I was an 
American, but I think we have not seen the really big dumping of the 
dollar yet ... euro at $1.7500 -- I hate round numbers, but why not?" he 
said. 

     Looking ahead to 2008, there is also a political angle to be 
considered, given the U.S. presidential election. 

     While global investors are said to "follow the money" irregardless 
of politics, a change in administration may do the greenback some good. 

     "Given the politics of Bush with military spending ... increasing 
the debt, there is no chance the dollar goes up until there is a new 
president in office," a eurozone strategist said. 

     With the week's U.S. data mixed, attention now shifts to Friday's 
release of October non-farm payrolls. 

     The median estimate in a Market News International survey of 
economists looks for payrolls to rise by 80.000. Estimates range from 
+10,000 to +110,000. The unemployment rate is expected to remain 
unchanged at 4.70%. 

     Another solid 100,000-plus number "would underscore the idea that 
the Fed is on hold," said Dustin Reid, currency strategist at ABN AMRO. 

     Near-term, i.e in the one day to one week period, "I think the 
dollar would be supported by that," he said. 

     Nevertheless, a dollar "pop" higher, is likely to be short-lived, 
Reid said. 

     ABN AMRO currently has an end of year forecast of $1.4400 and an 
end of 2008 forecast of $1.4900, with scope for these forecasts to be 
revised higher, he added.

     While dollar bears prevail for now, analysts warned Thursday of the 
dangers of an upward dollar correction, perhaps a sizable one, in the 
wake of the Federal Reserve's accompanying statement, with its move away 
from an easing bias and renewed focus on inflation. 

     "Even if the ECB raises rates at some point soon, the universal 
expectation, the Fed is probably done," said Barbara Rockefeller, 
president of Rockfeller Treasury Services in Southbury, CT in an update. 

     "Yield spreads can stabilize, and while the U.S. advantage is tiny, 
it's not zero, and could rise as inflation fears start getting built 
in," she noted. 

     There will be a seachange in the FX market as it moves from a "fear 
of recession" to a "fear of inflation," with the market shifting away 
from its overwhelming bearishness to perhaps being more upbeat about 
dollar prospects, Rockefeller said. 

     For now, the euro will need to post and maintain a higher high for 
additional gains to be seen. 

     "If not, then a new scenario is being built, one in which U.S. 
growth trumps everything, carrying the yield advantage with it," 
Rockfeller concluded. 

      Dollar Rates in New York Trade:  

                    Eur-Dlr   Dlr-Yen   Eur-Yen   Stg-Dlr  Dlr-Swiss

    2:29 p.m.       1.4452    114.82    165.94    2.0825    1.1571
   12:24 p.m.       1.4465    115.11    166.51    2.0867    1.1580 
   10:45 a.m.       1.4425    114.93    165.79    2.0802    1.1603
    7:32 a.m.  Thu  1.4423    115.76    166.96    2.0804    1.1621
    4:06 p.m.  Wed  1.4485    115.35    167.08    2.0789    1.1584
                                                                                              
         -- 212-669-6438; e-mail: vschmelzer@marketnews.com 

  ** Market News International New York Newsroom: 212-669-6430 **   
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | e52 : Euro Zone/Currency | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBMarket News International, Inc.   ANDocument MARNEW0020071102e3b10000m  



 SEMARKETS &INVESTING   HDPound storms to 26-year high on rates signal.    BYBy PETER GARNHAM    WC366 words   PD31 October 2007   SNFinancial Times   SCFTFT   EDLondon Ed1   PGPage 42   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPSterling rose to a 26-year high against the dollar yesterday after Kate Barker, a member of the Bank of England's monetary policy committee, questioned the need for a near-term cut in UK interest rates. 

The pound rose to Dollars 2.0694 against the dollar, surpassing the previous recent peak of Dollars 2.0655 it hit in July. 
   TDFears over the effect of the credit squeeze on the economy, combined with signs of a slowdown in the housing market, have seen markets price in a cut as the next move in UK interest rates, which at present stand at 5.75 per cent. 

However, on a visit to Guernsey, Ms Barker said the question for policymakers at the Bank of England's rate-setting meeting on November 8 was whether economic conditions had changed so much since the central bank's last set of inflation and growth projections in August that interest rates needed to come down. 

"We are asking ourselves if things are so different from August and do we actually have to cut rates," she said. 

Analysts said Ms Barker was seen as a swing voter on the nine-strong monetary policy committee, so her comments were particularly significant when trying to ascertain the prospects for an early UK interest rate cut. 

"This reinforces our view that there is not nearly enough evidence so far of a significant economic slowdown for most members of the monetary policy committee to vote for an interest rate cut as soon as November, or even this year," said Howard Archer, economist at Global Insight. 

Most analysts are expecting the Bank of England to begin its monetary easing cycle either next February or March. 

In contrast, the dollar has been undermined by expectations that the US Federal Reserve will deliver a 25 basis point interest rate cut to 4.5 per cent after its policy meeting today. 

Those expectations have been reinforced by a run of weak economic data that have raised concerns over the state of the US economy after the crisis in the country's subprime mortgage market.  
   RF20071031L142.442   INi81401 : Central Banking | i8150103 : Mortgages/Real Estate Credit | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ireest : Real Estate | i814 : Banking | i81501 : Credit Types/Services | icre : Construction/Real Estate   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | c152 : Earnings Projections | c31 : Marketing | c314 : Pricing | c33 : Contracts/Orders | c332 : Government Contracts | e1101 : Economic Growth | e1103 : Inflation/Prices | e1122 : Mortgage Applications/Refinancing | ecat : Economic News | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter   REeland : England | uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTFT000020071031e3av00065  



 HD Federal Reserve  cuts  interest rate  to help ease strain of housing slump on US economy      BYBy JEANNINE AVERSA      CRAP Economics Writer   WC905 words   PD1 November 2007   ET02:12   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPWASHINGTON (AP) - The Federal Reserve has sliced an important interest rate -- its second reduction in the last six weeks -- to help the U.S. economy survive the strains of a deepening housing slump that is likely to crimp growth in coming months.   

Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke and all but one of his colleagues agreed Wednesday to lower the federal funds rate by one-quarter percentage point to 4.50 percent at the end of a two-day meeting.   
   TD"The pace of economic expansion will likely slow in the near term, partly reflecting the intensification of the housing correction," the Fed acknowledged in a statement explaining its action.   

The funds rate affects many other interest rates charged to millions of individuals and businesses and is the Fed's most potent tool for influencing economic activity.   

In response, commercial banks, including  Bank of America,  Wells Fargo and KeyCorp., announced that they were cutting their prime lending rate -- for certain credit cards, home equity lines of credit and other loans -- by a corresponding amount, to 7.50 percent.   

The rationale behind the cuts is that the lower borrowing costs will induce people and businesses to boost spending, energizing economic activity.   

Wall Street was cheered by the Fed action. The Dow Jones industrials jumped 137.54 points to close at 13,930.01.   

The Fed policymakers supporting Wednesday's rate cut said the action -- along with a rate reduction in September -- was needed to "forestall some of the adverse effects on the broader economy" that might arise from the housing and credit troubles that have wreaked havoc on Wall Street over the past few months.   

Fed policymakers indicated the two rate cuts ordered so far may be sufficient to help the economy make its way safely through the trouble spots.   

They said the risks to the economy from inflation "roughly balance," or are equal to, the risks of a serious downturn in economic growth. Previously, the risks of a recession were seen as more of a threat to the country's economic health.   

"The message: They are now done for the time being," said Lynn Reaser, chief economist at  Bank of America's Investment Strategies Group. "They have taken out a significant insurance policy and now they believe they are fully covered against a recession risk -- at least for the near term," she said.   

For now, Reaser and other economists think the Fed probably will leave the funds rate alone when its meets next on Dec. 11, the last session of the year.   

The 9-1 decision to cut rates on Wednesday was opposed by Thomas Hoenig, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City. He preferred no change in the funds rate.   

So far, the economy has shown amazing resilience to the housing and credit strains.   

The economy grew at a brisk 3.9 percent pace in the summer, the fastest in 1 1/2 years, the government reported Wednesday. The impressive performance came even as the housing market sank deeper into the doldrums.   

Fed policymakers, in their statement, said the economy turned in a "solid" performance in the third quarter. They also said that "strains from financial markets have eased somewhat on balance."   

Even so, economic growth is expected to slow to a pace of around 2 percent or less in the current October-to-December period as the toll of the deteriorating housing market catches up with consumers and chills their spending.   

As another bolstering move, the Fed also sliced its lending rate to banks by one-quarter percentage point on Wednesday. That was the third cut to that rate since mid-August.   

Complicating the Fed's job to keep the economy and inflation on an even keel is surging oil prices. They soared to a record near $95 a barrel on Wednesday.   

The Fed said "recent increases in energy and commodity prices, among other factors, have put renewed upward pressure on inflation." The Fed said that while some inflation barometers that exclude energy and food prices have improved modestly this year, some inflation risks remain. They pledged to "monitor inflation developments carefully."   

If rising oil prices boost the cost of many other goods and services, then inflation could take off. At the same time, high energy prices could crimp consumer and business spending, putting another damper on overall economic activity.   

Although the economy performed well in the third quarter, the housing slump deepened. It shaved more than a full percentage point off economic growth.   

The meltdown in the mortgage market has made it harder for people to obtain financing to buy homes. That's aggravating problems in the housing market and leading to a mounting pileup of unsold homes. The housing slump is expected to drag on well into next year and foreclosures are expected to rise.   

The Fed on Sept. 18 lowered its key interest rate for the first time in more than four years. It was seen as a pre-emptive strike to ensure housing and credit problems don't sink the economy. The Fed's aggressive action at that time prompted a rally on Wall Street, propelling the Dow Jones industrials up by nearly 336 points. It was the Dow's biggest one-day point jump in nearly five years.   

------   

On the Net:   

Federal Reserve:   http://www.federalreserve.gov/  
   RF7   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | e1101 : Economic Growth | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPCtagpf1wcat | sel----- | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | NA FIN US Fed Interest Rates | D8SKIH0G0   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020071101e3b10006t  



 HD Federal Reserve  cuts  interest rate  to help ease strain of housing slump on economy      BYBy JEANNINE AVERSA      CRAP Economics Writer   WC901 words   PD31 October 2007   ET21:58   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPWASHINGTON (AP) - The Federal Reserve sliced an important interest rate Wednesday -- its second reduction in the last six weeks -- to help the economy survive the strains of a deepening housing slump that is likely to crimp growth in coming months.   

Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke and all but one of his colleagues agreed to lower the federal funds rate by one-quarter percentage point to 4.50 percent at the end of a two-day meeting.   
   TD"The pace of economic expansion will likely slow in the near term, partly reflecting the intensification of the housing correction," the Fed acknowledged in a statement explaining its action.   

The funds rate affects many other interest rates charged to millions of individuals and businesses and is the Fed's most potent tool for influencing economic activity.   

In response, commercial banks, including  Bank of America,  Wells Fargo and KeyCorp., announced that they were cutting their prime lending rate -- for certain credit cards, home equity lines of credit and other loans -- by a corresponding amount, to 7.50 percent.   

The rationale behind the cuts is that the lower borrowing costs will induce people and businesses to boost spending, energizing economic activity.   

Wall Street was cheered by the Fed action. The Dow Jones industrials jumped 137.54 points to close at 13,930.01.   

The Fed policymakers supporting Wednesday's rate cut said the action -- along with a rate reduction in September -- was needed to "forestall some of the adverse effects on the broader economy" that might arise from the housing and credit troubles that have wreaked havoc on Wall Street over the past few months.   

Fed policymakers indicated the two rate cuts ordered so far may be sufficient to help the economy make its way safely through the trouble spots.   

They said the risks to the economy from inflation "roughly balance," or are equal to, the risks of a serious downturn in economic growth. Previously, the risks of a recession were seen as more of a threat to the country's economic health.   

"The message: They are now done for the time being," said Lynn Reaser, chief economist at  Bank of America's Investment Strategies Group. "They have taken out a significant insurance policy and now they believe they are fully covered against a recession risk -- at least for the near term," she said.   

For now, Reaser and other economists think the Fed probably will leave the funds rate alone when its meets next on Dec. 11, the last session of the year.   

The 9-1 decision to cut rates on Wednesday was opposed by Thomas Hoenig, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City. He preferred no change in the funds rate.   

So far, the economy has shown amazing resilience to the housing and credit strains.   

The economy grew at a brisk 3.9 percent pace in the summer, the fastest in 1 1/2 years, the government reported Wednesday. The impressive performance came even as the housing market sank deeper into the doldrums.   

Fed policymakers, in their statement, said the economy turned in a "solid" performance in the third quarter. They also said that "strains from financial markets have eased somewhat on balance."   

Even so, economic growth is expected to slow to a pace of around 2 percent or less in the current October-to-December period as the toll of the deteriorating housing market catches up with consumers and chills their spending.   

As another bolstering move, the Fed also sliced its lending rate to banks by one-quarter percentage point on Wednesday. That was the third cut to that rate since mid-August.   

Complicating the Fed's job to keep the economy and inflation on an even keel is surging oil prices. They soared to a record near $95 a barrel on Wednesday.   

The Fed said "recent increases in energy and commodity prices, among other factors, have put renewed upward pressure on inflation." The Fed said that while some inflation barometers that exclude energy and food prices have improved modestly this year, some inflation risks remain. They pledged to "monitor inflation developments carefully."   

If rising oil prices boost the cost of many other goods and services, then inflation could take off. At the same time, high energy prices could crimp consumer and business spending, putting another damper on overall economic activity.   

Although the economy performed well in the third quarter, the housing slump deepened. It shaved more than a full percentage point off economic growth.   

The meltdown in the mortgage market has made it harder for people to obtain financing to buy homes. That's aggravating problems in the housing market and leading to a mounting pileup of unsold homes. The housing slump is expected to drag on well into next year and foreclosures are expected to rise.   

The Fed on Sept. 18 lowered its key interest rate for the first time in more than four years. It was seen as a pre-emptive strike to ensure housing and credit problems don't sink the economy. The Fed's aggressive action at that time prompted a rally on Wall Street, propelling the Dow Jones industrials up by nearly 336 points. It was the Dow's biggest one-day point jump in nearly five years.   

------   

On the Net:   

Federal Reserve:   http://www.federalreserve.gov/  
   RF7   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | e1101 : Economic Growth | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagapf | selapfin | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | APFN Fed Interest Rates | D8SKEPM81   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020071031e3av002iu  



 HDSources: ECB on Hold In the Face of Conflicting Concerns      WC1,116 words   PD30 October 2007   ET15:35   SNMarket News International   SCMARNEW   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007. Market News International, Inc.   
   TD

     FRANKFURT (MNI) - Conflicting concerns over inflation and slower 
growth have stayed the hand of the European Central Bank for now. 
Another interest rate hike is still possible, but it is unlikely to 
happen soon, well-placed sources have told Market News International. 

     Although the eurozone economy appears resilient, it is too early to 
take full comfort, these sources said. The available data do not yet 
give a clear enough picture of the fallout from recent market 
turbulence, which is expected to slow the economy to some extent, they 
said. 
 
     Eurosystem officials are worried about inflation pressures, but are 
also aware that the euro's appreciation is softening the impact of 
higher oil prices, some of these sources said. But others were worried 
that domestic price risks - particularly wage pressures - are mounting 
and that, unlike the case of oil, a strong euro will do little to blunt 
them.  

     The euro's rise to record highs against the dollar has tightened 
monetary conditions in the eurozone, which could temper the need for 
another ECB rate hike, some sources said. They also expressed concern 
that such a hike would push the euro even higher. 

     However, others said the tightening of monetary conditions is not 
the result of monetary policy, but rather - at least in part - of money 
market dislocations. A normalization of money markets could restore rate 
hike leeway, they said. 

     ECB officials will also be watching the U.S. Federal Reserve, which 
cut interest rates 50 basis points last month and is widely expected to 
cut them again by another quarter point on Wednesday in response to a 
rapidly weakening U.S. economic picture. 

     The ECB is in a quandary: It must weigh upside price pressures 
against the prospect that they could dissipate if the economy slows. 
Though with differences of emphasis, the sources generally agreed that 
this conundrum could keep the ECB on hold for many months.     

     "It's difficult," said one central banking official. "There is this 
common perception that growth will slow down somewhat. But then again, 
we still have inflation, and the cost push in the economy is 
non-trivial. The combination of slowing growth and increasing cost 
pressure is not one that central banks want to have." 

     This source said the turmoil in financial markets has "persisted 
longer than we thought two months ago" and that the economic outlook 
could be clouded by uncertainty "for the next couple of months - maybe 
half a year." 

     He said he "wouldn't be surprised" if the ECB hiked rates again, 
but that he would "be more cautious" than other central bankers who 
argue that the ECB's baseline scenario of growth near potential is still 
intact. The odds of growth continuing at a sustained rate are "fragile," 
he said. 

     Yet for all his worries about growth, this source was equally 
concerned about inflationary pressure building up in the economy. He 
cited rising wage costs and expressed concern that inflation 
expectations could become unglued. While the euro's surge can dampen 
exogenous price risks such as oil, it will have little impact on 
domestic inflation pressures, he said. 

     And even the oil price surge will not be entirely neutralized by 
the euro's rise, another source said. If oil stays above $80 per barrel, 
it could add 0.4 to 0.5 percentage point to HICP inflation, given that 
prices were around $57 to $58 a year earlier. "So there will be a strong 
base effect even when you take in account a 10% euro appreciation since 
then."  

     A senior central banking official amplified these sentiments. "As 
we have said before, the risks to price stability are increasing, and 
the bank will act accordingly to ensure price stability," he said. "If 
we see that risks remain on the upside, then we will proceed with 
another rate increase." 

     Yet another source agreed that the ECB may need to tighten again in 
the face of persistent inflation risks. "Of course [inflation] is still 
there and of course it's still a worry," he said. "It's more likely to 
head upwards a little bit than lower, and you have to think ahead and 
think of that." 

     One of the sources asserted that the apparent resilience of the 
eurozone economy also increased the possibility of another ECB rate 
hike. "The economy is still reasonably strong," he said. "We had 
expected slightly more negative news in the last month or so than we 
actually have seen." 

     Yet even those who said the ECB stood ready to act against 
inflation leavened their remarks with a healthy dose of caution. 

     "I stress that there is still uncertainty in the markets and global 
imbalances force us to remain cautious," said the senior source - 
despite his warning that the ECB would hike again if inflation rates 
stayed high. "The final decisions [on monetary policy] will be taken 
when all data are evaluated." 

     The ECB "must have a full picture of the impact the market turmoil 
has on the eurozone economy," this official said. He added that at its 
next meeting on November 8, the ECB's Governing Council will consider 
the possibility of renewed market turmoil, as well as the stance of the 
Federal Reserve. 

     He also noted that the strong euro militates against hasty action 
by the ECB, in part because it helps offset the increase in oil prices. 
He added that the euro is still at "acceptable" levels.  

     Another one of the sources, pointing to the strong euro and the 
spike in money market rates, said a hasty rate hike by the ECB "could 
potentially be a big blow to Europe's economy." 

     Another one agreed, noting that while a 25 basis point hike 
"certainly would not kill off the economy," it could drive the euro 
higher - especially if the Fed continues to cut borrowing costs. 

     The first source illustrated the kind of tightrope act being 
performed by the ECB. If inflation expectations rise, it would adversely 
affect the supply side, "and that by itself will be inflationary" and 
could argue for a rate hike, he said. 

     Yet if a supply-side problem is identified, "maybe the outcome will 
be that the ECB will not raise rates," this official added. "If it is a 
supply side shock, then we see that inflation is increasing but also 
that output is going down. And I wouldn't say that is the time or place 
to increase rates." 

     As another official said: "In the current environment the situation 
is changing a lot, so lots of scenarios are possible." 

--Frankfurt newsroom, +49-69-720-142; frankfurt@marketnews.com

[TOPICS: MT$$$$,M$X$$$,MX$$$$,M$$EC$]   
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | e52 : Euro Zone/Currency | e1101 : Economic Growth | ecbnk : European Central Bank | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News | eec : European Union | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBMarket News International, Inc.   ANDocument MARNEW0020071031e3au0000a  



 HDHong Kong Banks Cut Prime Rates After Fed Move      WC190 words   PD1 November 2007   ET09:25   SNMarket News International   SCMARNEW   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007. Market News International, Inc.   
   TD

     BEIJING (XFN) - Hong Kong's leading commercial banks said that they 
will cut their prime lending rates Friday after the territory's de facto 
central bank followed the US Federal Reserve and cut the base rate for 
its discount window. 

      HSBC, Hang Seng Bank, BOC Hong Kong and the  Bank of East Asia all 
said in seperate notices that they will cut their prime lending rates by 
25 basis points from tomorrow to 7.25%. 

     They were responding to an earlier move by the Hong Kong Monetary 
Authority (HKMA) to cut the base rate for its discount window by 25 
basis points to 6.0%, following a similar cut in the US Federal 
Reserve's federal funds rate. 

     The HKMA generally follows the Fed's interest rate adjustments as 
Hong Kong's currency is pegged to the US dollar. The HKMA base rate is 
the reference rate for lending overnight funds to local banks. 

     The Federal Open Market Committee cut its target for the federal 
funds rate Wednesday to 4.5% from 4.75%, as expected. 

[TOPICS: M$Q$$$,M$A$$$]   
   COboea : The Bank of East Asia Ltd   INi814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REchina : China | usa : United States | hkong : Hong Kong | asiaz : Asia | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America   PUBMarket News International, Inc.   ANDocument MARNEW0020071101e3b1000c4  



 SEMARKETS &INVESTING   HDDollar tumbles following Fed decision.    BYBy PETER GARNHAM    WC508 words   PD1 November 2007   SNFinancial Times   SCFTFT   EDAsia Ed1   PGPage 24   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPThe dollar fell to a record low against the euro and another 26-year trough against the pound yesterday after the Federal Reserve cut US interest rates after its policy-setting meeting. 

The central bank's decision to trim its main lending rate by 25 basis points to 4.5 per cent was widely expected given the steady stream of relatively weak US economic data that have raised concerns over the health of the US economy. 
   TDThe dollar fell 0.2 per cent to a record low of Dollars 1.4472 against the euro by midafternoon in New York and dropped 0.7 per cent to Dollars 2.0810 against the pound, its weakest level since 1981. 

In contrast, data from Europe suggested that neither the European Central Bank nor the Bank of England were likely to follow the Fed with a near-term interest rate cut. 

Eurozone consumer price inflation came in at 2.6 per cent in October, above consensus forecasts and the highest level in more than two years. 

"This will likely give more fuel to the hawks within the ECB, with the possibility of a rate cut definitely not on the cards," said Mathieu Verougstraete at ING Financial Markets. 

Meanwhile a survey from the Nationwide Building Society showed UK house prices rose 1.1 per cent in October, equalling the fastest growth rate this year. 

"The data reinforce our view that the Bank of England will not trim interest rates until next February," said Howard Archer at Global Insight. 

The dollar also fell against higher-yielding currencies, dropping 0.8 per cent to Dollars 0.9260 against the Australian dollar and losing 0.6 per cent to Dollars 0.7675 against the New Zealand dollar. 

Meanwhile, emerging market currencies also advanced, with the Turkish lira surging 1.5 per cent to a fresh six-year high of TL1.1688 against the dollar. The Brazilian real rose 0.8 per cent to RDollars 1.7355. 

However, the dollar rose 0.3 per cent to Y115.00 against the yen as the Bank of Japan's decision to leave interest rates on hold at 0.5 per cent and its semiannual economic report undermined the Japanese currency. 

The BoJ's Outlook for Economic Activity and Prices revealed a lower forecast for both growth and inflation in the current fiscal year. Analysts said the news all but extinguished expectations of a Japanese interest rate rise in the next three months. 

The yen fell 0.5 per cent to Y166.30 against the euro, 1 per cent to Y239.50 against the pound and 1.3 per cent to Y106.58 against the Australian dollar. 

Elsewhere, the Norwegian krone fell 0.6 per cent to NKr5.3820 against the dollar and 0.9 per cent to NKr7.7850 against the euro after the Norwegian central bank struck a dovish tone after its widely expected decision to keep interest rates on hold at 5 per cent.  
   RF20071101A124.494   COnn : ING Groep NV | natnbs : Nationwide Building Society   INi81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | i81501 : Credit Types/Services | i8150103 : Mortgages/Real Estate Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | c152 : Earnings Projections | c314 : Pricing | c33 : Contracts/Orders | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1103 : Inflation/Prices | ecat : Economic News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | c15 : Performance | c31 : Marketing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter   REaustr : Australia | jap : Japan | norw : Norway | nz : New Zealand | turk : Turkey | uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | balkz : Balkan States | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | meastz : Middle East | medz : Mediterranean | namz : North America | nordz : Nordic Countries | scandz : Scandinavia | wasiaz : Western Asia | weurz : Western Europe   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTFT000020071101e3b10002l  



 HD Federal Reserve  Expected to Cut Rates      BYBy JEANNINE AVERSA      CRAP Economics Writer   WC600 words   PD30 October 2007   ET22:27   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPWASHINGTON (AP) - The Federal Reserve is expected to cut an important interest rate this week, a move designed to help the economy get through the stresses of a painful housing slump and credit crunch.   

Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke and his central bank colleagues opened a two-day meeting Tuesday afternoon to assess the economic and financial challenges facing the country and plot their next move on interest rates.   
   TDEven as many await the Fed's interest rate decision, it continues to pump sizable amounts of cash into the financial system to help companies get over credit humps. The Fed, in two operations on Tuesday, injected $17 billion in temporary reserves.   

Many investors and economists are betting the Fed will follow up its bold, half-percentage-point rate cut in September with another, probably smaller, reduction when they wrap up their meeting Wednesday.   

These analysts predict the federal funds rate will be lowered by one-quarter percentage point to 4.50. The federal funds rate affects many other interest rates charged to individuals and businesses and is the Fed's most potent tool for influencing economic activity.   

If that happens, commercial banks' prime lending rate -- for certain credit cards, home equity lines of credit and other loans -- would drop by a corresponding amount, to 7.50 percent.   

The Fed's overriding worry is that problems in housing and harder-to-get credit could seriously crimp spending and investing by people and businesses, dealing a dangerous blow to the national economy.   

Just a few hours before Fed officials gathered for their closed door meeting, a report was issued showing consumers' confidence in the economy had sunk to a two-year low. The Conference Board's index fell to 95.6 in October, down from 99.5 in September.   

The news rattled Wall Street, pulling the Dow Jones industrial average down by 77.79 points.   

Many analysts are hopeful the economy can avoid a recession, but the odds of one occurring have grown considerably since the start of this year.   

Some analysts, meanwhile, think there's a chance the Fed will leave rates unchanged.   

They believe the economy is sufficiently resilient to weather the financial storm. They also worry that surging oil prices, which reached record highs in recent days, could spread inflation through the economy.   

For their own part, Bernanke and his fellow Fed officials have kept their options open about their next move. They have cited much uncertainty about how the various forces might ultimately affect economic activity. If Fed officials were to decide not to lower rates again, they run the risk of disappointing edgy investors on Wall Street and throwing stocks into a tailspin.   

"The expectations for another rate cut by the Fed have moved probably more quickly than Fed policymakers would have anticipated," said Lynn Reaser, chief economist at  Bank of America's Investment Strategies Group. "At this point, it seems a cut of one-quarter point will be ordered as an insurance policy" against undue economic weakness developing, she said.   

The Fed in September lowered its key interest rate for the first time in more than four years. It was seen as a pre-emptive strike to ensure housing and credit problems don't sink the economy. The Fed's aggressive action at that time prompted a rally on Wall Street, propelling the Dow Jones industrials up by nearly 336 points. It was the Dow's biggest one-day point jump in nearly five years.   

------   

On the Net:   

Federal Reserve:   http://www.federalreserve.gov/  
   RF7   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagpf0apon | sel----- | catf | 1310   IPDFinancial/Business | Fed Interest Rates | D8SJQ4JG0   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020071030e3au003ab  



 SEMARKETS   HDDollar plummets on rate cut as bond yields rise.    BYBy NEIL DENNIS and MICHAEL MACKENZIE    WC787 words   PD1 November 2007   SNFinancial Times   SCFTFT   EDLondon Ed1   PGPage 42   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPThe dollar sank to new lows yesterday and bond yields rose after the Federal Reserve cut interest rates by a quarter point to 4.5 per cent while appearing to signal that it was in no rush to cut rates again in the near future. 

Equity investors were initially disappointed by the statement, but buyers soon emerged and stocks closed sharply higher. 
   TDThe Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 1 per cent to 13,930.01 after being up 0.4 per cent before the Fed's move. The S&P 500 rallied 1.2 per cent to 1,549.38, while the Nasdaq Composite rose 1.5 per cent to 2,859.12. 

"It appears that the equity market believes the Fed is on top of things," said Al Greenberg, head floor trader at the CBOE for BNY ConvergEx. "Once investors digested what the Fed had to say, they started to run the market higher." 

The Federal Open Market Committee said: "The committee judges that, after this action, the upside risks to inflation roughly balance the downside risks to growth." The FOMC also said this cut, along with September's 50-basis-point cut, "should forestall the hit to economy caused by recent financial turmoil". 

Drew Matus, economist at Lehman Brothers said: "More generally, when the FOMC discusses rate moves in cumulative terms, they are coming to or at the end of whatever cycle they had been in." 

The yield on the two-year Treasury note rose 13bp to 3.94 per cent and interest rate futures reduced expectations of further cuts when the FOMC meets in December and early next year. The yield on the 10-year note rose 8bp to 4.465 per cent. 

"The prospect of further rate cuts is not looking good," said Tom di Galoma, head of Treasury trading at Jefferies &Co. "The economy and the markets have improved in the last six weeks and until housing weakness rolls over into the broad economy, the Fed will not aggressively ease." 

The latest Fed cut came after US gross domestic product in the third quarter rose by an annualised 3.9 per cent, beating market expectations. Yesterday's numbers also showed household spending and business investment remained robust. 

On currency markets , the dollar fell to a record low of Dollars 1.4504 against the euro after the rate cut was announced. The dollar index, a measure of the US unit's strength against a basket of other major currencies, also hit a new low. 

"This outcome will keep the dollar's longer term downtrend intact," said Marc Chandler at Brown Brothers Harriman.

Sterling rose to a 26-year peak against the dollar after a stronger-than-expected rise in UK house prices in October contrasted with recent data showing slowing mortgage demand and weaker buyer confidence. UK Gilt prices fell on the data, driving the yield on the 10-year note 3.9bp higher to 4.97 per cent. 

The Bank of Japan kept interest rates on hold at 0.5 per cent, offering no support for the weak yen. Furthermore, the central bank's semi-annual outlook on economic activity revealed expectations of lower growth and inflation, limiting the likelihood of any further near-term interest rate increases. The dollar was up 0.6 per cent to Y115.33. 

Oil prices rose sharply after a surprise drawdown in US stockpiles. Commodity markets had expected weekly inventory data to show a rise of 400,000 barrels of crude oil following the previous week's massive 5.3m-barrel fall. A further drain of 3.9m barrels last week shocked the market and Nymex West Texas Intermediate jumped Dollars 4.17 to close at a record Dollars 94.55 a barrel, while London's Brent crude climbed Dollars 3.19 to a new record of Dollars 90.63. 

Gold prices surged back towards recent 28-year highs as the dollar outlook softened. Spot gold was up 1.3 per cent to Dollars 791.70 an ounce. 

Equity markets in Asia and Europe closed before the Fed's rate decision. 

Hong Kong's Hang Seng index broke a four-day winning streak and edged off its record high as Tuesday's oil price decline took its toll on stocks such as CNOOC and Sinopec. 

The index fell 0.9 per cent to 31,352.58. 

In Tokyo the Nikkei 225 Average rose 0.5 per cent to 16,737.63, buoyed by gains in financials. 

Banking stocks helped European equities too, lifting the FTSE Eurofirst 300 index 0.9 per cent to 1,595.7.  
   RF20071101L142.068   CObnycgl : BNY ConvergEx Group, LLC | cpetc : China Petroleum and Chemical Corp (Sinopec Corp) | chno : China National Offshore Oil Corporation | bnyc : The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation | chpc : China Petrochemical Corp   INi81401 : Central Banking | i8150103 : Mortgages/Real Estate Credit | i83101 : Investment Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | i814 : Banking | i81501 : Credit Types/Services | i831 : Financial Investments | iinv : Investing/Securities | i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1300002 : Oil Exploration | i83102 : Security Brokering/Dealing | iexplo : Natural Gas/Oil Exploration   NSm11 : Equity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | c31 : Marketing | c314 : Pricing | c33 : Contracts/Orders | c332 : Government Contracts | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1101 : Economic Growth | e1103 : Inflation/Prices | e1122 : Mortgage Applications/Refinancing | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | m14 : Commodity Markets | m142 : Metals Markets | m15 : Derivative Securities | e1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter   REchina : China | hkong : Hong Kong | jap : Japan | uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | asiaz : Asia | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTFT000020071101e3b100068  



 HDFed Cuts Rate to Help Ease Housing Slump      BYBy JEANNINE AVERSA      CRAP Economics Writer   WC898 words   PD31 October 2007   ET23:45   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPWASHINGTON (AP) - The Federal Reserve sliced an important interest rate Wednesday -- its second reduction in the last six weeks -- to help the economy survive the strains of a deepening housing slump that is likely to crimp growth in coming months.   

Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke and all but one of his colleagues agreed to lower the federal funds rate by one-quarter percentage point to 4.50 percent at the end of a two-day meeting.   
   TD"The pace of economic expansion will likely slow in the near term, partly reflecting the intensification of the housing correction," the Fed acknowledged in a statement explaining its action.   

The funds rate affects many other interest rates charged to millions of individuals and businesses and is the Fed's most potent tool for influencing economic activity.   

In response, commercial banks, including  Bank of America,  Wells Fargo and KeyCorp., announced that they were cutting their prime lending rate -- for certain credit cards, home equity lines of credit and other loans -- by a corresponding amount, to 7.50 percent.   

The rationale behind the cuts is that the lower borrowing costs will induce people and businesses to boost spending, energizing economic activity.   

Wall Street was cheered by the Fed action. The Dow Jones industrials jumped 137.54 points to close at 13,930.01.   

The Fed policymakers supporting Wednesday's rate cut said the action -- along with a rate reduction in September -- was needed to "forestall some of the adverse effects on the broader economy" that might arise from the housing and credit troubles that have wreaked havoc on Wall Street over the past few months.   

Fed policymakers indicated the two rate cuts ordered so far may be sufficient to help the economy make its way safely through the trouble spots.   

They said the risks to the economy from inflation "roughly balance," or are equal to, the risks of a serious downturn in economic growth. Previously, the risks of a recession were seen as more of a threat to the country's economic health.   

"The message: They are now done for the time being," said Lynn Reaser, chief economist at  Bank of America's Investment Strategies Group. "They have taken out a significant insurance policy and now they believe they are fully covered against a recession risk -- at least for the near term," she said.   

For now, Reaser and other economists think the Fed probably will leave the funds rate alone when its meets next on Dec. 11, the last session of the year.   

The 9-1 decision to cut rates on Wednesday was opposed by Thomas Hoenig, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City. He preferred no change in the funds rate.   

So far, the economy has shown amazing resilience to the housing and credit strains.   

The economy grew at a brisk 3.9 percent pace in the summer, the fastest in 1 1/2 years, the government reported Wednesday. The impressive performance came even as the housing market sank deeper into the doldrums.   

Fed policymakers, in their statement, said the economy turned in a "solid" performance in the third quarter. They also said that "strains from financial markets have eased somewhat on balance."   

Even so, economic growth is expected to slow to a pace of around 2 percent or less in the current October-to-December period as the toll of the deteriorating housing market catches up with consumers and chills their spending.   

As another bolstering move, the Fed also sliced its lending rate to banks by one-quarter percentage point on Wednesday. That was the third cut to that rate since mid-August.   

Complicating the Fed's job to keep the economy and inflation on an even keel is surging oil prices. They soared to a record near $95 a barrel on Wednesday.   

The Fed said "recent increases in energy and commodity prices, among other factors, have put renewed upward pressure on inflation." The Fed said that while some inflation barometers that exclude energy and food prices have improved modestly this year, some inflation risks remain. They pledged to "monitor inflation developments carefully."   

If rising oil prices boost the cost of many other goods and services, then inflation could take off. At the same time, high energy prices could crimp consumer and business spending, putting another damper on overall economic activity.   

Although the economy performed well in the third quarter, the housing slump deepened. It shaved more than a full percentage point off economic growth.   

The meltdown in the mortgage market has made it harder for people to obtain financing to buy homes. That's aggravating problems in the housing market and leading to a mounting pileup of unsold homes. The housing slump is expected to drag on well into next year and foreclosures are expected to rise.   

The Fed on Sept. 18 lowered its key interest rate for the first time in more than four years. It was seen as a pre-emptive strike to ensure housing and credit problems don't sink the economy. The Fed's aggressive action at that time prompted a rally on Wall Street, propelling the Dow Jones industrials up by nearly 336 points. It was the Dow's biggest one-day point jump in nearly five years.   

------   

On the Net:   

Federal Reserve:   http://www.federalreserve.gov/  
   RF7   ARTimage image image      NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | e1101 : Economic Growth | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagpf0apon | sel----- | catf | 1311   IPDFinancial/Business | Fed Interest Rates | D8SKGC9G1   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020071031e3av00164  



 HDFed expected to cut rates to help economy survive housing, credit woes      BYBy JEANNINE AVERSA      CRAP Economics Writer   WC606 words   PD30 October 2007   ET22:27   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPWASHINGTON (AP) - The Federal Reserve is expected to cut an important interest rate this week, a move designed to help the economy get through the stresses of a painful housing slump and credit crunch.   

Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke and his central bank colleagues opened a two-day meeting Tuesday afternoon to assess the economic and financial challenges facing the country and plot their next move on interest rates.   
   TDEven as many await the Fed's interest rate decision, it continues to pump sizable amounts of cash into the financial system to help companies get over credit humps. The Fed, in two operations on Tuesday, injected $17 billion in temporary reserves.   

Many investors and economists are betting the Fed will follow up its bold, half-percentage-point rate cut in September with another, probably smaller, reduction when they wrap up their meeting Wednesday.   

These analysts predict the federal funds rate will be lowered by one-quarter percentage point to 4.50. The federal funds rate affects many other interest rates charged to individuals and businesses and is the Fed's most potent tool for influencing economic activity.   

If that happens, commercial banks' prime lending rate -- for certain credit cards, home equity lines of credit and other loans -- would drop by a corresponding amount, to 7.50 percent.   

The Fed's overriding worry is that problems in housing and harder-to-get credit could seriously crimp spending and investing by people and businesses, dealing a dangerous blow to the national economy.   

Just a few hours before Fed officials gathered for their closed door meeting, a report was issued showing consumers' confidence in the economy had sunk to a two-year low. The Conference Board's index fell to 95.6 in October, down from 99.5 in September.   

The news rattled Wall Street, pulling the Dow Jones industrial average down by 77.79 points.   

Many analysts are hopeful the economy can avoid a recession, but the odds of one occurring have grown considerably since the start of this year.   

Some analysts, meanwhile, think there's a chance the Fed will leave rates unchanged.   

They believe the economy is sufficiently resilient to weather the financial storm. They also worry that surging oil prices, which reached record highs in recent days, could spread inflation through the economy.   

For their own part, Bernanke and his fellow Fed officials have kept their options open about their next move. They have cited much uncertainty about how the various forces might ultimately affect economic activity. If Fed officials were to decide not to lower rates again, they run the risk of disappointing edgy investors on Wall Street and throwing stocks into a tailspin.   

"The expectations for another rate cut by the Fed have moved probably more quickly than Fed policymakers would have anticipated," said Lynn Reaser, chief economist at  Bank of America's Investment Strategies Group. "At this point, it seems a cut of one-quarter point will be ordered as an insurance policy" against undue economic weakness developing, she said.   

The Fed in September lowered its key interest rate for the first time in more than four years. It was seen as a pre-emptive strike to ensure housing and credit problems don't sink the economy. The Fed's aggressive action at that time prompted a rally on Wall Street, propelling the Dow Jones industrials up by nearly 336 points. It was the Dow's biggest one-day point jump in nearly five years.   

------   

On the Net:   

Federal Reserve:   http://www.federalreserve.gov/  
   RF7   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagapf | selapfin | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | APFN Fed Interest Rates | D8SJQ4C80   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020071030e3au003ac  



 HDFed expected to cut rates to help US economy survive housing, credit woes      BYBy JEANNINE AVERSA      CRAP Economics Writer   WC607 words   PD30 October 2007   ET19:17   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPWASHINGTON (AP) - The Federal Reserve is expected to cut an important interest rate this week, a move designed to help the U.S. economy get through the stresses of a painful housing slump and credit crunch.   

Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke and his central bank colleagues opened a two-day meeting Tuesday afternoon to assess the economic and financial challenges facing the country and plot their next move on interest rates.   
   TDEven as many await the Fed's interest rate decision, it continues to pump sizable amounts of cash into the financial system to help companies get over credit humps. The Fed, in two operations on Tuesday, injected $17 billion (euro11.8 billion) in temporary reserves.   

Many investors and economists are betting the Fed will follow up its bold, half-percentage-point rate cut in September with another, probably smaller, reduction when they wrap up their meeting on Wednesday.   

The federal funds rate will be lowered by one-quarter percentage point to 4.50, these analysts predict. The federal funds rate affects many other interest rates charged to individuals and businesses and is the Fed's most potent tool for influencing economic activity.   

If that happens, commercial banks' prime lending rate -- for certain credit cards, home equity lines of credit and other loans -- would drop by a corresponding amount, to 7.50 percent.   

The overriding worry for the Fed is that problems in housing and harder-to-get credit could seriously crimp spending and investing by people and businesses, dealing a dangerous blow to the national economy.   

Just a few hours before Fed officials gathered for their closed door meeting, a report was issued showing consumers' confidence in the economy sank to a two-year low. The Conference Board's index fell to 95.6 in October, from 99.5 in September.   

The news rattled Wall Street, pulling stocks lower.   

Many analysts are hopeful the economy can avoid a recession, but the odds of one occurring have grown considerably since the start of this year.   

Some analysts, meanwhile, think there's a chance the Fed will leave rates unchanged.   

They believe the economy is sufficiently resilient to weather the financial storm. They also worry that surging oil prices, which have reached record highs in recent days, could spread inflation through the economy.   

For their own part, Bernanke and his fellow Fed officials have kept their options open about their next move. They have cited much uncertainty about how all the various forces might ultimately affect economic activity. If Fed officials were to decide not to lower rates again, they run the risk of disappointing edgy investors on Wall Street and throwing stocks in a tailspin.   

"The expectations for another rate cut by the Fed have moved probably more quickly than Fed policymakers would have anticipated," said Lynn Reaser, chief economist at  Bank of America's Investment Strategies Group. "At this point, it seems a cut of one-quarter point will be ordered as an insurance policy" against undue economic weakness developing, she said.   

The Fed in September lowered its key interest rate for the first time in more than four years. It was seen as a pre-emptive strike to make sure housing and credit problems don't sink the economy. The Fed's aggressive action at that time prompted a rally on Wall Street, propelling the Dow Jones industrials up by nearly 336 points. It was the Dow's biggest one-day point jump in nearly five years.   

------   

On the Net:   

Federal Reserve:   http://www.federalreserve.gov/  
   RF7   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPCtagpf1wcat | sel----- | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | NA FIN ECO US Fed Interest Rates | D8SJNBIO0   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020071030e3au003b1  



 SECOMMENT   HDHistory's warning about the price of money.    BYBy MANUEL HINDS and BENN STEIL    WC950 words   PD30 October 2007   SNFinancial Times   SCFTFT   EDAsia Ed1   PGPage 11   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPThe Federal Reserve's dramatic 0.5 per cent interest rate cut on Sep-tember 18 was greeted with euphoria in the stock market, which soared 5 per cent in the two weeks that followed. This fact itself was hailed as vindication for a Fed that felt Jim Cramer's pain, and gave the world the cheaper dollars the market guru shrieked for in CNBC's (and YouTube's) most memorable "Mad Money" segment ever. 

To those who worry about inflation, the Fed could point to crunching credit as a danger to growth, and ipso facto a force for disinflation. Waiting for the numbers to prove it would just be reckless dithering. 
   TDWe have sympathy for Ben Bernanke, Fed chairman, and company. The job of a price fixer is never easy. What should money cost? For most of human history this was easy: once you fixed a conversion factor with gold, you just sat back and let the forces of supply and demand do their stuff. But since the collapse of the Bretton Woods currency regime (the last vestige of thousands of years of commodity money), discretion has been the watchword. Nine smart folks at the Fed board have taken over the job of deciding what the price of money should be. If the hagiography and hatred showered on Mr Bernanke's predecessor, Alan Greenspan, is any indication, that price should be wisely wiggled down to make jobs, up to prick bubbles and now, apparently, back down to offset losses on millions of bad credit decisions. 

So, are our cheaper dollars now at the right price? In the coming months, all eyes will be on the consumer price index for the answer. 

Unfortunately, there are circumstances in which excessive monetary creation can destabilise the economy while the rate of CPI inflation remains low. These tend to be present when the danger of monetary destabilisation is at its highest because people have lost faith in the ability of money to keep its value through time. 

As one of the great monetary economists of the last century, Jacques Rueff, pointed out in the late 1960s, people react to the "growing insolvency" of a reserve currency, such as the dollar, by acquiring "gold, land, houses, corporate shares, paintings and other works of art having an intrinsic value because of their scarcity". Sounds familiar? Indeed, this is the story of our present decade, one in which alternatives to the dollar as a store of value have soared even while the CPI has remained subdued. 

This phenomenon is well-known in developing countries, where asset booms combined with low CPI inflation have preceded monetary and financial crises. In Mexico, for example, share prices rose 12-fold between January 1989 and November 1994, while inflation fell from 35 per cent to 7 per cent. Inflation then soared as the Tequila crisis exploded. 

Prices of shares and real estate more than doubled from 1993 to 1996 in Indonesia and South Korea while CPI inflation rates were declining. In May 1997, just weeks before the currencies collapsed, inflation was only 4.5 per cent in Indonesia and 3.8 per cent in South Korea. 

The same symptoms have been visible in many other monetary crises in developing countries. They seem to be visible today in the US. Following the 2001 dotcom crash, resources flowed into real estate, foreign exchange and commodities, while CPI inflation remained modest. In 2007 the housing bubble finally burst, causing credit to crunch as the market struggled to out the owners of dud mortgages and -mortgage-linked contracts. The Fed reacted with cheaper dollars, which did precisely nothing in that regard. Credit risk fears remain unabated. But the market duly dumped dollars for harder assets, pushing the euro, shares, oil and gold to record dollar prices. 

Gold, having been global money for the better part of 2,500 years, and therefore the commodity most sensitive to expectations of macroeconomic in-stability, provides the best measure of the extent of the rush towards -inflation-proof hard assets. 

Between August 2001 and August 2007, the dollar price of gold soared 144 per cent, while the CPI rose only 17 per cent. The last time such a substantial and sustained appreciation of gold was observed was in the 1970s, on the heels of America's loose money policy and balance of payments deterioration in the 1960s and Rueff's warnings regarding "the precarious dominance of the dollar". There were two episodes, from 1971 to 1975 and from 1977 to 1980. In both, the increase in the price of gold and other commodities presaged substantial increases in CPI inflation as well as significant falls in the international value of the dollar. 

The dollar sustained its role as the international standard of value because of good fortune on two fronts. First, the Fed under Paul Volcker hammered out inflationary expectations with a painful but necessary period of high interest rates. Second, there was no viable alternative. 

It may not be so lucky this time. Today, not only does the euro wait in the wings as understudy, but gold banks have risen in tandem with the dollar's decline and offer the world a viable private alternative that has permanent intrinsic value. 

As the Fed debates whether the world is truly crying out for even cheaper dollars, it would be wise to heed the lessons of monetary history. 

Manuel Hinds is a former Salvadoran finance minister and author of Playing Monopoly with the Devil. Benn Steil is director of international economics at the Council on Foreign Relations and co-author of Financial Statecraft  
   RF20071030A111.233   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | nedc : Commentary/Opinion | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTFT000020071030e3au00016  



 SEMARKETS &INVESTING   HDDollar sinks to fresh low against euro.    BYBy PETER GARNHAM    WC541 words   PD30 October 2007   SNFinancial Times   SCFTFT   EDAsia Ed1   PGPage 24   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPThe dollar fell to a fresh record low against the euro and lost ground across the board yesterday as the prospect of a cut in US interest rates continued to pile pressure on the currency. 

Analysts said a recent run of weak US data had seen markets fully price in a 25 basis point cut in the US interest rate after the Federal Reserve's policy meeting tomorrow. 
   TDHans Redeker at BNP Paribas said the risk that rates would be cut by 50bp should not be dismissed. 

"We expect broad-based weakness to persist as weak data from the US continues to fuel Fed rate cut expectations, further supporting equities and risk appetite more broadly," he said. "As long as market participants are of the view that the US economy will not go into a recession, the dollar will remain under pressure with the higher-yielding and emerging market currencies supported." 

The dollar dropped to a low of Dollars 1.4438 against the euro, before paring its losses to stand 0.1 per cent down at Dollars 1.4410 by mid-afternoon in New York. The dollar also fell to a low of Dollars 2.0627 against the pound, within half a cent of the 26-year low of Dollars 2.0655 it hit in July, before pulling back to stand 0.4 per cent down at Dollars 2.0600. 

Traders said that as well as general dollar weakness, the pound had been lifted as expectations of UK monetary easing were cut back following a report in the Financial Times that said UK average earnings might have been rising faster than official statistics had reported. The pound rose 0.3 per cent to Pounds 0.6992 against the euro. 

Meanwhile, oil prices rose to fresh highs yesterday, pushing the Canadian dollar up 0.5 per cent to a 47-year high of CDollars 0.9555 against the dollar. The Australian dollar rose 0.4 per to Dollars 0.9220, a 23-year high, as gold prices struck a 28-year high. 

Elsewhere, the dollar fell 0.9 per cent to RDollars 1.7580 against the Brazilian real and lost 1 per cent to R6.5439 against the South African rand, but rose 0.3 per cent to Y114.50 against the yen. 

Analysts said the yen came under fresh selling pressure as a strong rally in Asian equities encouraged investors to re-enter carry trade positions, in which the purchase of riskier, higher-yielding assets is funded by selling the low-yielding Japanese currency. The yen also fell 0.6 per cent to Y165.30 against the euro, 0.9 per cent to Y236.28 against the pound and 0.9 per cent to Y105.72 and 0.9 per cent to Y88.20 against the high-yielding Australian and New Zealand dollars, respectively. 

However, Lee Hardman at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ said prospects for carry trades were uncertain as the possibility of a pick-up in risk aversion driven by disappointing earnings from European investment banks loomed. "In this uncertain environment, we maintain that the prospects for sustained yen weakness are limited," he said.  
   RF20071030A124.280   CObanqnp : BNP Paribas SA | mitsub : The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd | mitfin : Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Inc.   INi81401 : Central Banking | i83101 : Investment Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | i814 : Banking | i831 : Financial Investments | iinv : Investing/Securities | i81402 : Commercial Banking   NSm13 : Money/Forex Markets | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | c182 : Divestitures/Asset Transactions | c42 : Labor/Personnel Issues | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | cusags : Usage Statistics | cwrkpa : Workers Pay | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | gdip : International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | m11 : Equity Markets | c18 : Ownership Changes | c31 : Marketing | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter   REaustr : Australia | cana : Canada | jap : Japan | nz : New Zealand | safr : South Africa | uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | africaz : Africa | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | souafrz : Southern Africa | weurz : Western Europe   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTFT000020071030e3au0002f  



 SEMARKETS   HDInflation fears leave question mark over Fed.    BYBy NEIL DENNIS and MICHAEL MACKENZIE    WC816 words   PD31 October 2007   SNFinancial Times   SCFTFT   EDUSA Ed1   PGPage 26   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPNervous investors were unsure where to turn yesterday as the balance of expectations for the direction of US interest rates shifted. 

The dollar fell to a fresh low against the euro and a 26-year low versus sterling ahead of today's interest rate decision from the US Federal Reserve. 
   TDMeanwhile, oil and gold prices retreated as investors took profits from the bull run in commodities. 

Government bonds failed to capitalise from this weakness, amid some uncertainty over US rates policy, while equity markets remained in sight of recent highs. 

In recent days, the market had fully priced in a 25 basis point rate cut from the US central bank to 4.5 per cent, and some even suggested the possibility of a 50bp cut. However, sentiment retreated a little as some economists expressed doubts about the Fed moving at all. 

"Annual growth in the third quarter is likely to be in excess of 3 per cent," said James Knightley at ING. "High energy costs and rising food prices could push US inflation above 4 per cent in the fourth quarter. It is easy to understand why economists are more guarded than the markets." 

The uncertainty over policy was highlighted by the pricing in options for Fed funds futures which showed a 70 per cent of a 25 basis point cut, 12 per cent odds of a 50 bp cut and an 18 per cent probability of no change in rates. 

Further gloom for the US housing market and consumer confidence, which hit a two-year low in October, helped Treasury yields fall back from highs set in early trade. Late in New York, the yield on the 10-year Treasury was steady at 4.38 per cent, while the two-year note yield was up 0.8bp at 3.805 per cent, down from a peak of 3.84 per cent. 

The 10-year UK Gilt was little changed at 4.92 per cent. However, the rate-sensitive two-year Gilt yield rose 5.3bp to 5.08 per cent as prices dropped after expectations of lower UK interest rates were dealt a blow by comments from Kate Barker, a member of the Bank of England's monetary policy committee. Ms Barker questioned the need for UK policy to follow that of the US considering economic conditions in Britain had not changed much since the Bank's last inflation report in August. 

On currency markets , the dollar set a record low of Dollars 1.4441 against the euro. Sterling rose to a 26-year high of Dollars 2.0694 against the dollar following Ms Barker's comments. 

Sweden's krona climbed 0.3 per cent against the dollar and 0.2 per cent versus the euro after the country's central bank lifted its base rate from 3.75 per cent to 4 per cent, its third quarter-point increase in a row. 

Equity markets traded cautiously ahead of the Fed decision and were undermined by events at US investment bank Merrill Lynch and its Swiss rival UBS.Merrill Lynch said chief executive Stan O'Neal was leaving following the bank's largest ever quarterly loss. 

Meanwhile, UBS reported that massive writedowns on its subprime holdings had led to a SFr830m loss in the third quarter and said it would remain in the red in the final quarter of the year. 

In the US, the S&P 500 closed 0.7 per cent lower at 1,531.02, while the Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 0.6 per cent to close at 13,792.47. The Nasdaq Composite settled a fraction lower at 2,816.71. 

The FTSE Eurofirst 300 index fell 0.4 per cent to 1,581.69. 

Most Asian equity indices gave up some of their recent gains, although Hong Kong's Hang Seng edged 0.2 per cent higher to 31,638.22, its fourth-straight record close, and China's Shanghai Composite remained in a gravitydefying mood, advancing 2.6 per cent to 5,897.19. 

Tokyo's Nikkei 225 Average slipped 0.3 per cent to 16,651.01. 

Commodity markets were weaker and Nymex West Texas Intermediate fell Dollars 3.15 to close at Dollars 90.38 a barrel, and extended those losses in after-hours trade. WTI reached a record Dollars 93.80 a barrel on Monday. Brent crude in London lost Dollars 2.88 to Dollars 88.44, down from Monday's peak of Dollars 90.49. 

"Although prices have fallen back, we see little sign as yet suggesting that the upward march has come to an end," said Kevin Norrish at Barclays Capital.

Spot gold fell 0.9 per cent to Dollars 783.40 an ounce, as speculative long positions were trimmed ahead of the Fed's decision.  
   RF20071031U126.169   COnn : ING Groep NV | bcaptl : Barclays Capital Securities Ltd | barc : Barclays PLC | bbibnk : Barclays Bank PLC   INi81401 : Central Banking | i83101 : Investment Banking | ireest : Real Estate | i814 : Banking | i831 : Financial Investments | ibnk : Banking/Credit | icre : Construction/Real Estate | iinv : Investing/Securities | i81402 : Commercial Banking   NSm132 : Foreign Exchange News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | c33 : Contracts/Orders | c332 : Government Contracts | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1103 : Inflation/Prices | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | gpol : Domestic Politics | m11 : Equity Markets | m14 : Commodity Markets | m142 : Metals Markets | m143 : Energy Markets | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter   REchina : China | hkong : Hong Kong | jap : Japan | swed : Sweden | switz : Switzerland | uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | asiaz : Asia | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | nordz : Nordic Countries | scandz : Scandinavia | weurz : Western Europe   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTFT000020071031e3av0002f  



 SEFT REPORT - CORPORATE FINANCE 2007   HDA blend of debt and equity.    BYBy KEVIN RYAN    WC924 words   PD31 October 2007   SNFinancial Times   SCFTFT   EDSurveys CGF1   PGPage 9   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPHybrid is a term that has traditionally been used to refer to securities that have features of both debt and equity. 

Beginning in 1993, US companies began issuing a type of hybrid called "trust preferreds". Similar to debt, these securities called for periodic interest payments that were deductible when calculating corporate income tax. 
   TDBut unlike conventional debt, the issuers of trust preferreds retained the option to defer interest payments when facing financial difficulty. This ability to defer interest, when combined with maturities of 30 years or more and a subordinated position in the capital structure, allowed the securities to gain partial "equity credit" from the rating agency Standard &Poor's.

More importantly, for bank holding companies, the Federal Reserve in 1996 began to allow such securities to qualify as Tier 1 capital when determining a bank's capital ratios. 

Despite S&P's and the Fed's acknowledgement of the equity-like function of trust preferreds, Moody's for many years viewed trust preferreds as an expensive form of debt. This view helped limit their issuance mainly to financial institutions. 

In February 2005, Moody's changed its guidelines for assessing the equity credit of securities generally, specifically preferred stock. When the new guidelines were released, several issuers took advantage of the opportunity by issuing non-tax deductible preferred stock which received 50 to 75 per cent equity credit from Moody's. However, the market remained limited until tax-deductible, 50 to 75 per cent equity credit structures from Moody's were possible. 

Beginning with deals from Lehman Brothers, Stanley Works, and the Reinsurance Group of America in late 2005, a wave of structural innovation resulted in a Dollars 76bn market for hybrid securities in the US. 

Since 2005, large commercial banks scuh as Citigroup and JP Morgan have each issued more than Dollars 4bn of the new hybrids to meet their Tier 1 regulatory capital requirements. At the same time, holding companies of US insurance companies such as American International Group and MetLife have issued hybrids to reduce debt, buy back stock, and, in a handful of cases, fund acquisitions. Issuance by corporates remains light. 

The main challenge in structuring hybrids is satisfying the rating agencies that the securities are sufficiently equity-like to merit at least partial equity credit, while at the same time preserving sufficiently debt-like features to maintain tax-deductibility. 

The equity characteristics that Moody's and S&P look for in hybrids are long maturities and permanence in the capital structure, flexibility in payment of coupons, and subordination in the capital structure. At the same time, tax looks for shorter maturities, certainty about regular interest payments, and a strong assurance of repayment of interest and principal. 

Qualities that make a security more equity-like often make it less debt-like for tax purposes. 

For this reason, the most likely candidates to issue hybrids are companies that are either seeking more capital, but have already exhausted their debt capacity (at least for conventional straight debt) in their targeted ratings range and are reluctant to issue new equity, or they wish to repurchase equity while maintaining their current rating. 

In such cases, the equity credit accorded hybrids by the rating agencies has the effect of expanding corporate debt capacity (and the interest tax shield that comes with it), while avoiding the possible dilution of value from issuing underpriced equity. 

For a significant majority of investment grade borrowers, even in today's more volatile credit market, the after-tax cost of hybrid capital will be much less than an equivalent market of senior debt and common equity. 

Therefore, even companies that feel they already have an optimal mix of debt and common equity may issue hybrids so as to reduce their overall cost of capital. 

Accordingly, besides refinancing debt and buying back stock, the proceeds from hybrids have been used for a variety of purposes, including funding acquisitions. In short, tax-deductible hybrids are likely to prove effective capital planning instruments for many companies. 

During the spring of 2006, the US institutional market for hybrid capital shut down for six months, as US state insurance commissioners required insurance company holders of hybrids to hold additional capital against their hybrid portfolio. 

The commissioners' position was resolved through a compromise and the market began its tightening trend in September 2006. Entering 2007, the hybrid market was strong, having significantly outperformed the broader credit market in late 2006 

Between June and September, as credit volatility increased, hybrid markets weakened and there were no institutional deals. However, the retail market was busy, as financial institutions sought to shore up capital, and retail became the viable alternative for capital raising during this dislocation in the institutional markets. 

Despite this, in late August, GE Capital entered the European market and priced the single largest high equity content tax-deductible hybrid ever executed by a US issuer. Then, on September 10th, Florida Power and Light reopened the US institutional market and triggered a re-marking of the entire product with secondary hybrids market moving wider. 

The market picked up significantly after the Fed cut the interest rate by 50 basis points in September. Hybrid issuance so far for 2007 is 23 per cent higher than for 2006 and we expect this trend to continue into 2008, particularly with financial institution issuers that need to shore up their balance sheets. 

Kevin Ryan is managing director, global capital markets, at Morgan Stanley
   RF20071031S109.104   COaiu : American International Group Inc | flprl : Florida Power & Light Co | lehbro : Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc | metlfe : MetLife Inc. | cnyc : JPMorgan Chase & Co. | fpl : NextEra Energy Inc.   INi81401 : Central Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | i83101 : Investment Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | i814 : Banking | i831 : Financial Investments | iinv : Investing/Securities | i1 : Energy | i16 : Electricity/Gas Utilities | i82 : Insurance | i82002 : Life Insurance   NSc11 : Plans/Strategy | c131 : Regulatory Bodies | c17 : Funding/Capital | c171 : Share Capital | c172 : Corporate Debt Instruments | c33 : Contracts/Orders | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | cshbuy : Share Buybacks | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | c13 : Regulation/Government Policy | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTFT000020071031e3av0002v  



 SEWORLD NEWS   HDSweden lifts interest rates to five-year high.    BYBy DAVID IBISON    WC618 words   PD31 October 2007   SNFinancial Times   SCFTFT   EDLondon Ed1   PGPage 11   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPSweden's central bank raised interest rates by 25 basis points to 4 per cent yesterday and warned that the country may not escape unscathed from the global market turmoil. 

The Riksbank's decision to raise rates to their highest level in nearly five years was taken to damp inflationary pressures from an economy expected to grow at 3.1 per cent this year at the same time as unemployment is falling and consumer prices are rising. 
   TDSweden's rate rises come as the European Central Bank and the Federal Reserve have started cutting rates or keeping them on hold - adding to the impression that it is immune to global economic pressures. 

But in a carefully worded statement, the Riksbank steered a path between the inflationary pressures caused by Sweden's economic growth and the downward economic pressure stemming from weakness in the US market and Europe. 

Sweden has so far escaped any contamination from unease in global financial markets, but the central bank cautioned yesterday that this may not necessarily continue. 

"The slowdown in the US and other countries, together with the recent unease in the financial markets, is expected to slow down growth in Sweden somewhat," the bank said in a statement. 

But it added: "Although the international slowdown is expected to lead to some slackening in growth in Sweden, it is not sufficient to check the increased cost pressures." 

Sweden's largest export market is the eurozone and its two largest individual export destinations are Germany and Norway. The US is its third largest export market. 

The central bank said it expected the country's economic growth to continue and for rates to be raised another quarter point to 4.25 per cent in the first half of 2008. 

It added that inflationary pressures would build as Swedish consumer price inflation accelerated to 2.2 per cent year-on-year in September, exceeding the Riksbank's 2 per cent target for the first time in four years. 

"We have a stronger labour market, but also food, energy and house prices and continued high lending, leading to higher cost pressures," said Stefan Ingves, governor. 

The bank forecast inflation of 2.9 per cent next year, higher than its earlier estimate of 2.3 per cent, with the economy growing 2.8 per cent, lower than its previous forecast of 3 per cent. 

"The assessment is that the interest rate increases will contribute to an inflation rate in line with the 2 per cent target at the same time as production and employment develop in a balanced manner," the bank said. 

Research by SEB, the Swedish bank, highlighted that the bank's change in tone was subtle, but suggested it was still significant. "While the Riksbank last month talked about 'financial unrest', it now draws the consequences: 'greater uncertainty and weaker international growth'. Again, we interpret the Riksbank as having taken a minor step back, stressing downside risks," it concluded. 

The Swedish currency, the krona, strengthened on the news. The bank said it expected the krona to strengthen in future. 

"The relatively more contractionary Swedish monetary policy compared with other countries is one reason why the exchange rate is expected to strengthen further," it said. 

A stronger currency will undermine the competitiveness of Sweden's exports. Sweden is a member of the EU but is not part of the eurozone. 

The Riksbank added: "Exports, investment and household consumption are now expected to grow more slowly in 2008 than predicted in June. The reasons for weaker growth in consumption are that households have increased their savings as a result of the financial turbulence."  
   RF20071031L111.367   COseb : Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken AB   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | i81402 : Commercial Banking   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | c152 : Earnings Projections | c314 : Pricing | c42 : Labor/Personnel Issues | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e1101 : Economic Growth | e1103 : Inflation/Prices | e1116 : Employment/Unemployment | e52 : Euro Zone/Currency | ecat : Economic News | ecbnk : European Central Bank | eec : European Union | gjob : Labor Issues | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | c15 : Performance | c31 : Marketing | gcat : Political/General News | gcom : Society/Community/Work | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations   REgfr : Germany | norw : Norway | swed : Sweden | usa : United States | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | nordz : Nordic Countries | scandz : Scandinavia | weurz : Western Europe   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTFT000020071031e3av0004r  



 SEFRONT PAGE - FIRST SECTION   HDFed goes cautious after rates cut to 4.5%.    BYBy EOIN CALLAN, MICHAEL MACKENZIE and DANIEL PIMLOTT    WC501 words   PD1 November 2007   SNFinancial Times   SCFTFT   EDEurope Ed1   PGPage 1   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPThe US Federal Reserve cut interest rates by a quarter of a point to 4.5 per cent yesterday, but warned investors against banking on further monetary easing, sending short-term government bond yields soaring. 

The central bank signalled that it was shifting to a neutral stance on future rate cuts, saying "the upside risks to inflation roughly balance the downside risks to growth". 
   TDHowever, one Fed governor, Thomas Hoenig of Missouri, dissented, preferring to leave rates unchanged in another signal the Fed may be more hawkish than markets might have hoped. 

"This should not be read as the Fed closing the door on easing, but they are signalling the bar will be set quite high for them to cut at the next meeting," said Alan Ruskin, chief international strategist at RBS Greenwich Capital. 

The yield on the two-year note rose 12 basis points to a high of 3.92 per cent. 

Interest rate futures reflected sharply lower odds of further rate cuts when the FOMC (Federal Open Market Committee) meets in December or early next year. 

The Fed is "telling you they're on hold probably through December", said Charles Comiskey, head of Treasury trading at HSBC. But investors continued to price in a high probability of a cut in rates to 4.25 per cent after the January meeting. 

The dollar fell to a new record low of Dollars 1.4495 against the euro. The broad equity benchmarks briefly erased gains and fell into negative territory, but later rallied. With an hour of trading left, the S&P 500 had risen 1.5 per cent from its low for the day. 

The Fed said in its statement accompanying the decision that "the pace of economic expansion will likely slow in the near term" as the housing slump intensified. 

But it added that the second successive rate cut "should help forestall some of the adverse effects on the broader economy that might otherwise arise from the disruptions in financial markets and promote moderate growth over time". 

The Fed statement noted that while readings on "core inflation have improved modestly...recent increases in energy and commodity prices" may put "renewed upward pressure on inflation". 

This may reflect internal pressure from regional Fed presidents who fear an over-reaction to the credit squeeze could let inflation out of the bag. 

Disappointing banking earnings and downbeat corporate forecasts have added to concerns about a slowdown in activity, in spite of a strong overall economic performance last quarter. 

US third-quarter growth was its strongest since the start of last year, according to data yesterday showing gross domestic product rose at an annual rate of 3.9 per cent in the three months to the end of September. 

Additional reporting by Daniel Pimlott in New York 

Editorial Comment, Page 10 The Short View, Page 15 Markets, Pages 32-34  
   RF20071101E101.136   COrbsct : Royal Bank of Scotland Group PLC | hksbc : HSBC Holdings PLC | nwb : National Westminster Bank PLC   INi81401 : Central Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | i814 : Banking   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | c33 : Contracts/Orders | c332 : Government Contracts | e1101 : Economic Growth | e1103 : Inflation/Prices | ecat : Economic News | gpol : Domestic Politics | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | m15 : Derivative Securities | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | npag : Page-One Story | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTFT000020071101e3b10002y  



 SEFRONT PAGE - FIRST SECTION   HDFed eases rates but warns over future cuts.    BYBy EOIN CALLAN, MICHAEL MACKENZIE and DANIEL PIMLOTT    WC509 words   PD1 November 2007   SNFinancial Times   SCFTFT   EDLondon Ed2   PGPage 1   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPThe US Federal Reserve cut interest rates by a quarter-point to 4.5 per cent yesterday, but warned investors against banking on further monetary easing, sending short-term government bond yields soaring. 

The central bank's Federal Open Market Committee signalled it was shifting to a neutral stance on future rate cuts, saying "the upside risks to inflation roughly balance the downside risks to growth". This means Fed policymakers see the likelihood of more cuts as being no greater than the likelihood of rate hikes, in contrast to the market, which had been pricing in big further easing in the months ahead. 
   TDOne Fed governor, Thomas Hoenig of Kansas City, Missouri, dissented. He preferred to leave rates unchanged in another signal that the Fed may be more hawkish than the markets might have hoped. "This should not be read as the Fed closing the door on easing, but they are signalling that the bar will be set quite high for them to cut at the next meeting," said strategist Alan Ruskin at RBS Greenwich Capital. 

The yield on the two-year note, which is particularly sensitive to short-term monetary policy changes, rose 13 basis points to a high of 3.93 per cent. Interest rate futures reflected lower odds of further rate cuts when the FOMC meets in December and January. 

The Fed is "telling you they're on hold probably through December'', said Charles Comiskey, head of Treasury trading at HSBC. But investors continued to price in a high probability of a cut in rates to 4.25 per cent at the January meeting. 

The dollar also fell to a record low of Dollars 1.4504 against the euro, while stocks staged a strong rally late in the day amid optimism that the Fed had done enough to insulate the broader economy from problems in the housing and credit markets. 

The Fed predicted in its statement accompanying the rate decision that "the pace of economic expansion will likely slow in the near term" as the housing slump intensifies. But it added that the second successive rate cut "should help forestall some of the adverse effects on the broader economy that might otherwise arise from the disruptions in financial markets and promote moderate growth over time". 

The Fed played down expectations of future rate cuts, noting that while readings on "core inflation have improved modestly . . . recent increases in energy and commodity prices" may put "renewed upward pressure on inflation". This may reflect internal pressure from regional Fed presidents who fear an overreaction to the credit squeeze could let inflation out of the bag. 

Disappointing earnings in the banking sector and downbeat corporate forecasts have added to concerns about a slowdown in activity, in spite of a strong overall performance last quarter. 

Investors get message, Page 9 Editorial Comment, Page 14 Lex, Page 18 The Short View, Page 19 Currencies, Page 40 Global Overview, Page 42  
   RF20071101L201.161   COhksbc : HSBC Holdings PLC | nwb : National Westminster Bank PLC | rbsct : Royal Bank of Scotland Group PLC   INi81401 : Central Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | i814 : Banking   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | c33 : Contracts/Orders | c332 : Government Contracts | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1103 : Inflation/Prices | ecat : Economic News | gpol : Domestic Politics | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | m15 : Derivative Securities | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | npag : Page-One Story | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTFT000020071101e3b10006a  



 SEFRONT PAGE - FIRST SECTION   HDFed eases rates but warns on future cuts.    BYBy EOIN CALLAN, MICHAEL MACKENZIE, MICHIYO NAKAMOTO, DANIEL PIMLOTT and JONATHAN SOBLE    WC492 words   PD1 November 2007   SNFinancial Times   SCFTFT   EDUSA Ed2   PGPage 1   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPThe US Federal Reserve cut interest rates by a quarter point to 4.5 per cent yesterday, but warned investors against banking on further monetary easing, sending short-term government bond yields soaring. 

The central bank signalled that it was shifting to a neutral stance on future rate cuts, saying "the upside risks to inflation roughly balance the downside risks to growth". 
   TDThis means that Fed policymakers see the likelihood of further rate cuts as being no greater than the likelihood of increases in contrast to the market, which before the decision was pricing in substantial further easing in the months ahead. 

One Fed governor, Thomas Hoenig of Kansas City, Missouri, dissented. He preferred to leave rates unchanged in another signal that the Fed may be more hawkish than the markets might have hoped. 

"This should not be read as the Fed closing the door on easing, but they are signalling that the bar will be set quite high for them to cut at the next meeting," said Alan Ruskin, chief international strategist at RBS Greenwich Capital. 

The yield on the two-year note, which is particularly sensitive to short-term changes in monetary policy, rose 13 basis points to a high of 3.93 per cent. Interest rate futures reflected sharply lower odds of further rate cuts when the FOMC meets in December and January. 

The dollar also fell to a record low of Dollars 1.4504 against the euro, while stocks staged a strong rally late in the day, amid optimism that the Fed had done enough to insulate the broader economy from problems in the housing and credit markets. 

The central bank predicted in its statement accompanying the rate decision that "the pace of economic expansion will likely slow in the near-term" as the housing slump intensifies. 

But it added that the second successive rate cut "should help forestall some of the adverse effects on the broader economy that might otherwise arise from the disruptions in financial markets and promote moderate growth over time". 

The statement from the Fed played down expectations of future rate cuts. 

Disappointing earnings in the banking sector and downbeat corporate forecasts have added to concerns about a slowdown. 

However, US gross domestic product rose at an annual rate of 3.9 per cent in the three months to the end of September. 

"This one was for the banks. The cut is intended to keep money flowing freely and stem the risk of spillover from the financial markets to the real economy," said Jeoff Hall, an economist at Thomson Financial. 

Additional reporting by Daniel Pimlott, Michiyo Nakamoto and Jonathan Soble in Tokyo 

Investors get message, Page 3 Editorial Comment, Page 10 Lex, Page 14 The Short View, Page 15 and www.ft.com/shortview Markets, Pages 26-28  
   RF20071101U201.181   COnwb : National Westminster Bank PLC | rbsct : Royal Bank of Scotland Group PLC   INi81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | c33 : Contracts/Orders | c332 : Government Contracts | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1101 : Economic Growth | e1103 : Inflation/Prices | ecat : Economic News | gpol : Domestic Politics | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | m15 : Derivative Securities | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | npag : Page-One Story | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter   REjap : Japan | usa : United States | asiaz : Asia | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTFT000020071101e3b100070  



 HDHong Kong Monetary Authority Cuts Rates 25BP After Fed Move      WC137 words   PD1 November 2007   ET01:52   SNMarket News International   SCMARNEW   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007. Market News International, Inc.   
   LP

     HONG KONG (XFN) - The Hong Kong Monetary Authority (HKMA) said 
Thursday it has cut the base rate for its discount window by 25 basis 
points to 6.0%, following a similar cut overnight in the US Federal 
Reserve's federal funds rate. 

     The HKMA generally follows the Fed's interest rate adjustments as 
Hong Kong's currency is pegged to the US dollar. The HKMA base rate is 
the reference rate for lending overnight funds to local banks. 

     The Fed's policy-making body, the Federal Open Market Committee 
(FOMC), last night cut its target for the federal funds rate to 4.5% 
from 4.75%, as expected. 

                       beijing@marketnews.com
   ** Market News International Beijing Newsroom +86-10 5864 5241**

[TOPICS: M$Q$$$,M$A$$$]   
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REchina : China | hkong : Hong Kong | usa : United States | asiaz : Asia | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America   PUBMarket News International, Inc.   ANDocument MARNEW0020071101e3b10005o  



 HDRepeat: HKMA Cuts Base Rate 25BP After Fed Move      WC131 words   PD1 November 2007   ET06:35   SNMarket News International   SCMARNEW   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007. Market News International, Inc.   
   LP

     HONG KONG (XFN) - The Hong Kong Monetary Authority (HKMA) said 
Thursday it has cut the base rate for its discount window by 25 basis 
points to 6.0%, following a similar cut overnight in the US Federal 
Reserve's federal funds rate. 

     The HKMA generally follows the Fed's interest rate adjustments as 
Hong Kong's currency is pegged to the US dollar. The HKMA base rate is 
the reference rate for lending overnight funds to local banks. 

     The Fed's policy-making body, the Federal Open Market Committee 
(FOMC), last night cut its target for the federal funds rate to 4.5% 
from 4.75%, as expected. 

                       beijing@marketnews.com
   ** Market News International Beijing Newsroom +86-10 5864 5241**   
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REchina : China | hkong : Hong Kong | usa : United States | asiaz : Asia | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America   PUBMarket News International, Inc.   ANDocument MARNEW0020071101e3b10006p  



 HDFACTBOX-Global interest rates in 2007      WC1,122 words   PD1 November 2007   ET09:42   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007 Reuters Limited   
   LP(Updates with U.S. rate cut, Romanian rate rise)   

LONDON, Nov 1 (Reuters) - The U.S. Federal Reserve cut its main interest rate by a quarter percentage point on Oct. 31 to 4.50 percent. As a result the average rate set by central banks of the Group of Seven nations fell to 3.85 percent from 3.90 percent, while the average rate set by 11 leading central    
   TD
banks -- the five that decide monetary policy for the G7 nations plus six other
major banks -- slipped to 4.55 percent from 4.57 percent.
   

For interest rate changes in 2006 please double click on [ID:nL16106090]   

The following table of average rates is aimed at reflecting the movement of official policy rates during the economic cycle rather than actual borrowing costs.   


                  2007
 MONTH: END05..END06..01...02...03...04...05...06...07...08...09...10...11...12
 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 G7 AVG: 2.85  3.65  3.70 3.75 3.80  -   3.85 3.90 4.00 4.00 3.90 3.85  -    -
 11 AVG: 3.10  4.00  4.05 4.09 4.20 4.23 4.27 4.41 4.48 4.50 4.55 4.55  -    -
 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 FED     4.25  5.25   -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -   4.75 4.5   -    - 
 BOJ 1)  0.00  0.25   -   0.5   -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    - 
 ECB     2.25  3.50   -    -   3.75  -    -   4.0   -    -    -    -    -    - 
 BOE     4.50  5.00  5.25  -    -    -   5.5   -   5.75  -    -    -    -    - 
 BOC     3.25  4.25   -    -    -    -    -    -   4.5   -    -    -    -    - 
 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 SNB 2)  1.00  2.00   -    -   2.25  -    -   2.5   -    -   2.75  -    -    - 
 RBA     5.50  6.25   -    -    -    -    -    -    -   6.50  -    -    -    - 
 RBNZ    7.25  7.25   -    -   7.5  7.75  -   8.0  8.25  -    -    -    -    - 
 RIKSBK  1.50  3.00   -   3.25  -    -    -   3.5   -    -   3.75 4.0   -    - 
 NORWAY  2.25  3.50  3.75  -   4.0   -   4.25 4.5   -   4.75 5.0   -    -    - 
 DENMARK 2.40  3.75   -    -   4.0   -    -   4.25  -    -    -    -    -    - 
 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 NO. OF RATE
 CHANGES: 2006: 40     2    2    5    1    2    6    3    2    4    2   -    - 
 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 MONTH: END05..END06..01...02...03...04...05...06...07...08...09...10...11...12
 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 EASTERN EUROPE:
 POLAND 4.50   4.00   -    -    -   4.25  -   4.5   -   4.75  -    -    -    - 
 HUNG   6.00   8.00   -    -    -    -    -   7.75  -    -   7.5   -    -    - 
 CZECH  2.00   2.50   -    -    -    -   2.75  -   3.0  3.25  -    -    -    - 
 SLOVAK 3.00   4.75   -    -   4.50 4.25  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    - 
 RUSSIA 12.0   11.0  10.5  -    -    -    -  10.0   -    -    -    -    -    - 
 UKRAINE 9.5   8.5    -    -    -    -    -   8.0   -    -    -    -    -    - 
 ROMANIA 7.5   8.75   -   8.0  7.5   -   7.25 7.0   -    -    -   7.5   -    - 
 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 LATIN AMERICA:
 BRAZIL 18.00 13.25 13.0  -  12.75  12.5  -  12.0  11.5  -  11.25  -    -    - 
 MEX 3)  8.2   7.0   7.0 7.0  7.0   7.1  7.2  7.2  7.2   7.2  7.2 7.3   -    - 
 CHILE   4.5   5.25  5.0  -    -     -    -    -   5.25  5.5 5.75  -    -    - 
 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 ASIA
 KOREA   3.75  4.50   -    -    -    -    -    -   4.75  5.0  -    -    -    - 
 THAI 4) 4.00  5.00 4.75 4.5    -   4.0  3.5   -   3.25  -    -    -    -    - 
 PHIL    7.50  7.50   -    -    -    -    -    -   6.0   -    -   5.75  -    - 
 TAIWAN  2.25  2.75   -    -  2.875  -    -  3.125  -    -   3.25  -    -    - 
 INDS   12.75  9.75 9.5  9.25  9.0   -   8.75 8.5  8.25  -    -    -    -    - 
 INDIA   5.25  6.00   -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    - 
 CHINA   5.58  6.12   -    -   6.39  -   6.57  -   6.84 7.02 7.29  -    -    - 
 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 MIDDLE EAST/AFRICA:
 SARB    7.0   9.0    -    -    -    -    -   9.5   -  10.0   -   10.5  -    - 
 ISRAEL  4.5   4.5  4.25 4.0    -   3.75 3.5   -   3.75 4.0   -    -    -    - 
 TURKEY 13.5  17.5    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -  17.25 16.75 -    - 
 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 MONTH:DEC05..DEC06..01...02...03...04...05...06...07...08...09...10...11...12
   

NOTES:   

If rates change more than once a month, the last rate for that month is listed.   

Slovenia has been removed from the table as it joined the euro zone on Jan 1, 2007.   

1. On March 9, 2006 the BOJ said it would no longer set a target for the amount of surplus funds in the money market, ending its "quantitative easing" policy, and adopted a more conventional tactic of guiding the unsecured overnight call rate. On July 14, 2006 it raised interest rates for the first time in six years.   

2. The  Swiss National Bank targets a range for the three-month Swiss franc LIBOR rate. It currently targets roughly the midpoint of that range.   

3. The Bank of Mexico manages reserve money through weekly open market operations. The benchmark is the 28-day treasury bills, Cetes. This is a monthly average rate, rounded to one decimal.   

4. On Jan. 17, 2007 the Bank of Thailand set a new policy rate based on the 1-day repurchase rate <BOT15>, instead of the 14-day rate. The rate was set at 4.75 percent, compared with the market close that day of 4.9375 percent (For details please double click on [ID:nBKK140398]). Comparisons in the table for the end of 2005 and 2006 show the 14-day rate. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------   

INTEREST RATES. (All the interest rates are policy rates identified by each central bank):   

GROUP OF SEVEN CENTRAL BANKS:   

U.S FEDERAL RESERVE = federal funds rate   

BANK OF JAPAN = overnight call rate   

EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK = refi rate   

BANK OF ENGLAND = bank rate   

BANK OF CANADA = overnight funding rate   

MAJOR CENTRAL BANKS:   

SWISS NATIONAL BANK = 3-month Swiss Libor   

RESERVE BANK OF AUSTRALIA = cash rate   

RESERVE BANK OF NEW ZEALAND = cash rate   

SWEDISH RIKSBANK = repo rate   

NORGES BANK = deposit rate   

DENMARKS NATIONALBANK = 2-week cd rate   

CENTRAL AND EASTERN EUROPE:   

NATIONAL BANK OF POLAND (NBP): 28-day intervention rate   

NATIONAL BANK OF HUNGARY: (NBH) 2-week deposit rate   

CZECH NATIONAL BANK (CNB): 2-week repo rate   

NATIONAL BANK OF SLOVAKIA (NBS): 2-week limit repo rate   

CENTRAL BANK OF RUSSIAN FEDERATION (CBR): refinancing rate   

NATIONAL BANK OF UKRAINE (NBU): discount rate   

NATIONAL BANK OF ROMANIA (NBR): monetary policy rate   

LATIN AMERICA:   

CENTRAL BANK OF BRASIL (BCB): Selic rate   

CENTRAL BANK OF CHILE (BCC): Discount rate   

BANK OF MEXICO: 28 day Cetes rate   

ASIA:   

BANK OF KOREA: Overnight call rate   

BANK OF THAILAND: 1-day repurchase (repo) rate. End-05 and end-06 comparisons are for the 14-day repo rate (see note 4 above)   

CENTRAL BANK OF PHILIPPINES: Overnight borrowing rate   

CENTRAL BANK OF CHINA (TAIWAN): Discount rate   

BANK INDONESIA: Bank Indonesia (BI) reference rate   

RESERVE BANK OF INDIA: Reverse repo rate   

PEOPLE'S BANK OF CHINA: One-year yuan lending rate   

MIDDLE EAST/AFRICA:   

SOUTH AFRICAN RESERVE BANK: Repurchase rate   

BANK OF ISRAEL: Short-term lending rate   

CENTRAL BANK OF TURKEY: Overnight borrowing   
   RFGLOBAL-RATES/2007 (FACTBOX)|LANGEN|Table|ABN|M|E|U|NAT|D|CANT|J|UKI|RNP|DNP|PTD   NSe1201 : Central Bank Intervention | ecbnk : European Central Bank | gseven : Group of Seven | m131 : Money Markets | e1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | eec : European Union | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations   REasiaz : Asia | austr : Australia | cana : Canada | eurz : Europe | jap : Japan | nz : New Zealand | uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | weurz : Western Europe | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | easiaz : Eastern Asia | eecz : European Union Countries | namz : North America   IPCG7 | CEN | MCE | INT | MMT | DBT | FRX | FED | BOJ | ECB | BOE | SNB | GLOBAL/INT | EMBG:DBT | EMBG:GLOBAL/INT | embargokeyE2   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020071104e3b100059  



 HDANALYSIS-U.S. consumers tiptoe along confidence cliff      BYBy Emily Kaiser      WC842 words   PD1 November 2007   ET16:25   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007 Reuters Limited   
   LPWASHINGTON, Nov 1 (Reuters) - The mighty U.S. consumer may be starting to crack, just as the Federal Reserve signaled that it was through with interest rate cuts barring a sharper economic downturn.   

Spending has held up remarkably well through months of nonstop news headlines about the free-falling housing market and record-high oil prices, propping up an economy that is limping through a housing recession.   
   TDBut consumer confidence has eroded, and that is beginning to show up in quiet retail stores and disappointing sales.   

Data released on Thursday showed personal spending rose at a modest 0.3 percent annual rate in September, down from a revised 0.5 percent in August and slightly below expectations. For details, see [ID:n01406094].   

"Over the next few months, as the latest spike in gas prices bites, we expect to see weaker spending on goods and discretionary services, so fourth-quarter consumption will be much slower than the 3 percent in the third quarter," said Ian Shepherdson, chief U.S. economist at High Frequency Economics.   

Retailers are already seeing signs of that.  Target Corp , which has recorded strong sales growth in recent years, lowered its sales forecast in September and October. Higher-end stores are starting to feel the pinch, too. Handbag maker  Coach Inc warned of weak traffic earlier this month, and forecast earnings below Wall Street expectations.   

BREACHING THE DAM   

Back in early 2001, Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan worried about an abrupt "break" in consumer confidence, and the central bank began a rate-cutting frenzy that eventually took the benchmark interest rate to 1 percent.   

In testimony to Congress, he likened the erosion in confidence to "water backing up against a dam that is finally breached. The torrent carries with it most remnants of certainty and euphoria that built up in earlier periods."   

Shortly after that testimony, the economy fell into recession, although it lasted all of eight months. The expansion that began in November 2001 appears to still be intact -- but confidence is once again showing deep cracks.   

The current Fed, under Chairman Ben Bernanke, lowered interest rates by a quarter point on Wednesday but sent a clear signal to Wall Street that unless economic conditions take a turn for the worse, further cuts should not be expected.   

There has not been a particularly strong link between consumer confidence and spending in recent years, but a swift decline in confidence often prompts people to retrench, and that is closely associated with recessions.   

The break that Greenspan spoke of in February 2001 first appeared in late November 2000, said Richard Curtin, director of the Reuters/University of Michigan Surveys of Consumers. The recession officially began four months later.   

In November 2000, the University of Michigan's consumer sentiment index stood at 107.6, according to Curtin's database. One month later, it was at 98.4, a 9 percent drop. Last week, the survey showed consumer sentiment at 80.9, the lowest in more than a year as concerns about the housing slump darkened the economic outlook.   

While the index is much lower now than it was when Greenspan testified in 2001, the key seems to be how quickly the mood changes. Curtin said a "break" occurs when there is a swift and widespread loss of confidence like the one in late 2000. While the October reading was poor, it was down only a modest 3 percent from the prior month.   

When asked what might trigger such a break this time, he said, "Housing -- that's the No. 1 candidate. And we're perilously close to $100-a-barrel oil. These two negative trends could join and create an overall downturn."   

COFFEE AND TOILET PAPER   

The downward trend is worrisome, however, and consumers are likely to be shouldering a heavier burden in the weeks to come as gasoline prices look set to rise.   

To make matters worse, food company Kraft said earlier this week that dairy prices were up about 40 percent.  Procter & Gamble , the largest U.S. consumer products maker, is raising prices on a host of everyday items including diapers, coffee and toilet paper.   

For now, a relatively strong job market and wage growth have many people feeling OK about their financial position. A recent Reuters/Zogby survey found that more than half of Americans polled rated their personal financial situation "good" or "excellent" -- yet only about a quarter gave U.S. economic policy such high marks.   

White House economic adviser Edward Lazear blames that on a "disconnect" between what people see in their own checkbooks and the bad news they read in the newspapers.   

"It's kind of a frustration because we can't quite understand the disconnect, but there definitely is one," he said at a recent round-table discussion.   

If consumers act on those negative attitudes this holiday season, the Fed may have to rethink its hawkish position.   
   RFUSA-ECONOMY/CONSUMER (ANALYSIS)|LANGEN|ABN|D|E|RBN|U|M|ABX|BNX   INi64 : Retail/Wholesale | iclt : Clothing/Textiles   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | e1202 : Interest Rates | gvexe : Executive Branch | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCWASH | MCE | RET | FED | CEN | PLCY | STIR | INT | DISC | RETA | MIS | TEX | FOOD | F | CPX | EMBG:PLCY | embargokeyE1E1   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020071104e3b1000d1  



 HDTop Stories in Asia Wednesday Oct 31 & the US Tuesday Oct 30      WC1,436 words   PD31 October 2007   ET08:53   SNMarket News International   SCMARNEW   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007. Market News International, Inc.   
   TD

*    [BOJ Stands Pat] The Bank of Japan on Wednesday said its 
nine-member policy board voted 8-1 to maintain the target for the 
overnight call rate at 0.5% in the face of easing but lingering 
uncertainties triggered by the US subprime mortgage crisis. The BOJ 
issued a brief statement on its "no change" decision at the end of a 
regular policy-setting meeting. Board member Atsushi Mizuno again voted 
against leaving short-term interest rates unchanged. 

*    [JGBs End Mixed] Japanese government bonds ended Wednesday's 
session narrowly mixed, with the longer end of the curve rallying 
modestly in the wake of the Bank of Japan's rate decision. Although the 
BOJ took the widely anticipated decision to leave monetary policy 
unchanged, ultra-long paper staged a modest relief rally. Continued 
month-end duration weighted demand also helped boost the longer dated 
paper. However, traders said volumes remained modest, with many players 
awaiting the outcome of the Federal Reserve's rate decision. Traders 
also noted that the upside appeared capped ahead of the 10-year auction 
due Thursday. The coupon was likely to be set at 1.60% - the lowest 
level since the BOJ ended its ultra-easy monetary policy in March 2006. 
The benchmark 10-year yield was 1 bp lower at 1.610%, while the lead 
Sept JGB futures contract was down 0.05 at 135.99

*    [Japan Stocks Reverse Course To End Higher] Japanese stock indices 
ended the day higher, as an afternoon rally helped push them into 
positive territory. The main indices ended the morning session lower, 
before rallying in the wake of the BOJ's decision to leave rates 
unchanged. The benchmark Nikkei 225 was higher by 86.62 points, or 
0.52%, at 16737.63. The broader-based TOPIX was 12.88 points higher at 
1620.07.

*    [Euro Hits Fresh Lifetime High] Major forex pairs were tied to 
narrow ranges in Asian trade Weds, as the market awaited the FOMC rate 
decision. However, euro-dollar did manage to squeeze out a fresh 
lifetime high at $1.4447, although an option barrier ahead of $1.4450 
again capped the upside. The pair spent the entire Asian session stuck 
in a $1.4434/47 range. Dollar-yen similarly declined, as the BOJ 
took the widely expected decision to leave monetary policy unchanged. 
The pair was unable to break out of a Y114.62/81 range, with offers 
layered ahead of Y115.00 capping the upside. 

*    [BOJ: Japan Economy To Show Sustained Growth] The Bank of Japan on 
Wednesday said the economy will show sustained growth of "around 2% on 
average," or just above its potential rate, in the next 18 months and 
inflation should recover slowly from zero, with the core CPI seen 
"around zero" in fiscal 2007 and "around 0.5%" in the following year. 
The central bank also said in its semi-annual Outlook that "weak 
inflationary pressures have given the bank latitude in conducting 
monetary policy." 

*    [Japan Average Earnings Lower In Sept] The average monthly cash 
earnings per regular employee in Japan, including overtime and bonuses, 
fell 0.5% from a year earlier in September to Y273,144 ($2,381), the 
first drop in two months, the Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare said 
Wednesday. It followed a revised 0.6% gain in August. 

*    [Japan Construction Orders Slump In Sept] The value of construction 
orders received in September by the 50 largest contractors in Japan fell 
16.3% year-on-year to Y1.57 trillion, down for the third consecutive 
month, the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport said 
Wednesday. The September fall followed a 14.2% decline in August and a 
10.4% drop in July and remained the largest decline since the 20.1% fall 
recorded in July 2006. 

*    [Aussie Private Sector Credit Up In Sept] Credit provided to the 
private sector by Australian financial intermediaries rose 1.2% in 
September from August and increased 15.9% from a year earlier, the 
Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) said. In August, private sector credit 
increased by a revised 1.4% from July. The initial estimate was that it 
had increased 1.5%, the RBA said.

*    [Aussie Building Approvals Up In Sept] Building approvals in 
Australia rose a seasonally adjusted 6.8% to 13,710 in September from 
August and were up 4.2% from a year earlier, the Australian Bureau of 
Statistics (ABS) said. The market consensus was for a 1.0% rise 
month-on-month.

[In The US]
*    U.S. October Conference Board consumer confidence measure Tuesday 
slipped to 95.6 vs. a 99.5 revised September reading as it continues to 
hover at two-year lows and portends a slower consumer. The present 
situation index eased to 118.8 from 121.2, while expectations fell to 
80.1 in October from 85.0. Plans to buy autos edged up, but plans to buy 
appliance and homes are down. One-year inflation expectations are 5.1% 
vs. 5.0% in September. 

*    Pessimists now outnumber optimists in the assessment of future 
business conditions, a key reading from the Conference Board's consumer 
confidence report that survey chief Lynn Franco warns is pointing 
squarely at slowing economic growth through the fourth quarter. "For the 
first time in quite some time we see that the pessimists, those that are 
telling us business conditions are worse, are at 13.8% and slightly 
outnumber the optimists at only 13.7% who are saying business conditions 
are getting better," Franco said in a phone interview Tuesday. 

*    The August S&P/Case-Shiller Composite-20 U.S. home price index 
slipped to 197.16, down 0.8% month-over-month and the text said this was 
the sharpest year-over-year drop since June 1991, with the decline led 
by Florida.

*    U.S. Senate Budget Committee Chairman Kent Conrad told Market 
News International Tuesday that he hopes a hearing his panel is holding 
Wednesday on long-term budget issues will "kick start" a serious debate 
on the nation's fiscal challenges. "We are heading for a cliff and we 
have to change direction. But nothing is happening. We are in a crisis 
but there is not a sense of urgency around here. We need a sense of 
urgency," Conrad said. Conrad's panel will hold a hearing Wednesday 
morning on a proposal he has drafted with Sen. Judd Gregg, the ranking 
Republican on the panel, to create a fiscal task force to assess 
long-term fiscal trends and offer recommendations about how to revamp 
spending and tax policies. 

*    U.S. House Majority Leader Steny Hoyer said Tuesday that 
congressional Democrats continue to work on fiscal year 2008 spending 
bills, but said President Bush has done little to help their efforts. 
"We need some cooperation from the president," Hoyer said. He said it is 
important to complete work on the FY'08 budget this fall before Congress 
adjourns for the year. Bush and Democratic leaders in Congress have been 
skirmishing for months on the overall level for discretionary spending 
which is distributed in the 12 spending bills. 

*    U.S. auto sales are expected to show little or no overall growth 
in October as the effects of a depressed housing market ripple through 
the economy, and high gasoline prices continue to cut into personal 
budgets, dealers and analysts said. But dealers in some areas reported 
sales were holding up and even registering double-digit gains as those 
local markets bucked the national trend. 

*    A near shutdown in originations, a dramatic fall in new issuance 
volumes, and a widening of spreads in CMBS have driven market spreads 
back towards 5-year highs -- all while underlying credit fundamentals 
remain rock solid. Based on September remittance reports just released 
last week, the overall CMBS delinquency rate has continued to fall with 
no sign that weakness in U.S. residential subprime is in anyway spilling 
over to commercial real estate (CRE) credit performance. 

*    On the eve of the Federal Reserve's interest rate decision, a top 
Treasury official Tuesday said that despite strong economic 
fundamentals, the decline in the U.S. housing sector remains "most 
significant current risk" to the economy. In remarks to the Women in 
Housing and Finance, Treasury Assistant Secretary for Financial 
Institutions David Nason noted the recent stress in the credit and 
mortgage markets, which he said is "occurring against the backdrop of a 
strong global economy," as well as solid U.S. economic fundamentals. "In 
our view, the underlying strength of the economy should enable further 
continued growth," Nason said.   
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | e1101 : Economic Growth | nsum : News Digest | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | niwe : IWE Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBMarket News International, Inc.   ANDocument MARNEW0020071031e3av000b3  



 HDSummary Box:  Federal Reserve  cuts  interest rate  to help ease strain of housing slump      BYBy The Associated Press      WC118 words   PD1 November 2007   ET02:07   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPANOTHER CUT: The Federal Reserve sliced an important interest rate Wednesday -- its second reduction in the last six weeks -- to help the economy survive a deepening housing slump that is likely to crimp growth in coming months.   

HOW MUCH: Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke and all but one of his colleagues agreed to lower the federal funds rate by one-quarter percentage point to 4.50 percent.   
   TDIN RESPONSE: Commercial banks announced that they were cutting their prime lending rate -- for certain credit cards, home equity lines of credit and other loans -- by a corresponding amount, to 7.50 percent.   
   RF7   INi81501 : Credit Types/Services | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagdsp | sel----- | catw   IPDAP National News | Washington | Fed Interest Rates Summary Box | D8SKIER80   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020071101e3b100042  



 HDBank of America cut key  interest rate  after  Federal Reserve  decision      WC135 words   PD31 October 2007   ET19:27   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPNEW YORK (AP) -  Bank of America on Wednesday lowered its prime rate by one-quarter of a percentage point after the Federal Reserve cut its key interest rate.   

Bank of America said its prime rate is now 7.50 percent, down from 7.75 percent. The Fed cut the federal funds rate, which is what banks charge each other for overnight loans, to 4.50 percent from 4.75 percent previously.   
   TDThe prime rate is what banks charge their best customers, and serves as the benchmark for lending rates to all customers for mortgages, credit cards and other products.   

Most banks typically raise or lower their prime rate by an amount equal to the Fed's rate action within minutes of its decision.   
   RF7   COncnbco : Bank of America Corporation   INi81501 : Credit Types/Services | ibnk : Banking/Credit | i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagapf | selapfin | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | APFN Bank of America Prime Rate | D8SKCJ600   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020071031e3av0032c  



 HDShares of national banks fall on heels of  interest rate  cut by the  Federal Reserve    WC231 words   PD31 October 2007   ET19:50   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPNEW YORK (AP) - Shares of national banks fell after the Federal Reserve cut a key interest rate to 4.5 percent from 4.75 percent Wednesday afternoon.   

Banks have been struggling in recent months due to the deterioration in the housing and credit markets. Credit markets have tightened as borrowers have gone increasingly delinquent and into default on loans, especially subprime mortgages given to customers with poor credit history.   
   TDThe key rate, called the federal funds rate is the rate banks charge each other. It is often used to calculate interest rates on typical consumer and business loans. The cut will likely be reflected in banks' prime lending rate, making borrowing more attractive for individuals and businesses. The prime rate was at 7.75 percent and will likely fall to 7.5 percent in the coming days.   

Here's how the nation's largest banks performed following the Fed's decision:   

Shares of  Bank of America Inc. fell 59 cents to $47.40.   

Wells Fargo & Co. shares fell 56 cents to $33.44.   

Washington Mutual shares fell 26 cents to $27.85.   

Shares of  Citigroup Inc. fell 47 cents to $41.64   

JPMorgan Chase & Co. added 5 cents and is trading at $46.61.   

Wachovia Corp. shares fell 78 cents to $45.19.   
   RF7   COnwbc : Wells Fargo & Company   INi81501 : Credit Types/Services | ibnk : Banking/Credit | i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagapf | selapfin | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | APFN National Banks Sector Glance | D8SKCTSO0   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020071031e3av0033e  



 HDFed injects $41 billion into US financial system to help ease credit problems      BYBy JEANNINE AVERSA      CRAP Economics Writer   WC439 words   PD1 November 2007   ET19:37   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPWASHINGTON (AP) - The Federal Reserve pumped $41 billion (euro28.4 billion) into the U.S. financial system Thursday, the largest cash infusion since September 2001, to help companies get through a credit crunch.   

The action comes one day after Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke and all but one of his central bank colleagues voted to slice a key interest rate for the second time in six weeks to protect the economy from the ill effects of collapse in the housing market, aggravated by the credit troubles.   
   TDThe cash injection also came as Wall Street took a nosedive Thursday. The Dow Jones industrials were down more than 250 points in afternoon trading.   

The Fed on Wednesday ordered its key rate, called the federal funds rate, to be lowered by one-quarter percentage point to 4.50 percent. That followed up on a bolder, half-percentage point cut in September. Those two rate reductions might be sufficient to help the economy make its way safely through trouble spots, Fed policymakers indicated.   

The funds rate affects many other interest rates charged to millions of individuals and businesses and is the Fed's most potent tool for influencing economic activity.   

The  Federal Reserve Bank of New York, which carries out the central bank's open market operations, moved Thursday to inject $41 billion (euro28.4 billion) in temporary reserves into the U.S financial system. It came as part of ongoing efforts designed to ensure that the markets -- which have suffered through a period of turbulence over the last few months -- function smoothly. The cash infusion came in three separate operations.   

A New York Fed spokesman said it was the largest single day of operations since $50.35 billion was pumped into the system on Sept. 19, 2001, following the terror strikes on New York and Washington. He declined further comment.   

Fed policymakers at their meeting on Wednesday noted that the "strains from financial markets have eased somewhat on balance." Still many Fed officials in the last week have described the state of financial markets as fragile. Bernanke and other Fed officials have said it will take time for the markets to fully recover from the credit crisis.   

Since August, the Fed has been pumping cash into the financial system to help ease strains from the credit crunch. It also has cut its lending rate to banks -- a third such cut came on Wednesday. The Fed also has ordered two reductions to its most important interest rate, the funds rate, to help the situation.   
   RF7   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPCtagpf1wcat | sel----- | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | NA FIN US Fed Markets | D8SL1QS83   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020071101e3b1003ke  



 HDGold trades above $800 for 1st time since 1980 following  Federal Reserve 's  interest rate  cut      BYBy LAUREN VILLAGRAN      CRAP Business Writer   WC778 words   PD31 October 2007   ET21:04   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPNEW YORK (AP) - Gold barreled above $800 an ounce Wednesday for the first time since 1980 as investors cheered the Federal Reserve's decision to lower its benchmark interest rate by a quarter point.   

The Fed dropped its federal funds rate to 4.50 percent, as the markets widely anticipated. Lower interest rates tend to undermine the dollar and raise the allure of precious metals as an investment alternative. The dollar stumbled to another low against the euro following the Fed's decision on Wednesday, helping drive gold higher.   
   TDAlthough the regular trading sessions of most commodities markets were closed before the Fed released its decision, gold prices continued to climb in aftermarket trading. An ounce of gold gained $7.50 to settle at $795.30 an ounce on the New York Mercantile Exchange, then rose to a high of $800.80 ounce in later electronic activity.   

Gold last topped $800 an ounce in 1980, when prices reached as high as $875 an ounce in January. Adjusted for inflation, an $800 ounce of gold in 1980 would be worth more than $2,000 today.   

While the $800 mark means something less than it did 27 years ago, gold prices have surged roughly $150 an ounce since mid-August and that means consumers could see prices on gold jewelry go up ahead of the holiday season. But some jewelers say gold at $800 an ounce still isn't high enough to dent demand.   

"Last time it was the talk of the town," said Keith Hurdle, owner of Hurdle's Jewelry in Boulder, Colo., referring to gold's last foray above $800. "Not anymore, they don't even ask. If the piece is in their price range, they're fine."   

In its statement, the Fed said strains in the financial markets have eased somewhat since the summer's turmoil. But the central bank also cautioned that an intensifying housing slump could slow the pace of economic growth and warned that increasing energy and commodity prices raise the risks of inflation.   

The euro, which hit a high for the fourth straight trading day, bought a record over $1.45 in late trading on Wednesday.   

"Gold is a hedge against uncertainty, against currency volatility," said Carlos Sanchez, precious metals analyst with CPM Group. "It's a hedge against inflation. All this going on is supportive of higher gold prices."   

December silver jumped 11 cents to close at $14.438 an ounce on the Nymex.   

January platinum added $6.70 to end at $1,447.60 an ounce on the Nymex.   

Following the Fed's rate cut, energy prices extended a rally that was begun early in the session after the government posted a surprising draw on crude oil inventories for the second week in a row. Light, sweet crude for December delivery gained $4.15 to settle at $94.53 a barrel on the Nymex, after briefly hitting a record $94.74.   

Like gold, oil has approached the inflation-adjusted highs of early 1980. Depending on the calculation, a $38 barrel of crude then would fetch $96 to $101 or more today.   

The Energy Information Administration reported U.S. stockpiles of crude plunged by 3.9 million barrels in the week ended Oct. 26, compared with analysts' consensus forecast for a gain of 100,000 barrels. Expectations had ranged between a build of 2 million barrels and a draw of 2.6 million barrels.   

Gasoline inventories rose by 1.3 million barrels, while distillate inventories increased by 800,000 barrels. Analysts had expected moderate decreases of both.   

Gasoline futures for November rose 8.29 cents to $2.34 a gallon. November heating oil futures added 8.32 cents to $2.5078 a gallon. The November contracts for gas and heating oil expired at the session's end.   

Base metals ended mixed on the London Metal Exchange, with nickel, copper and lead finishing higher while zinc and aluminum prices slipped. Copper for December delivery on the Nymex slipped 0.85 cent to close at $3.473 a pound.   

Agriculture futures also ended mixed after a choppy week that has seen prices move in tandem with other markets, including equities.   

"We're down one day, up the next," said DTN analyst Gary Wilhelmi. "Outside markets are strong influences."   

Wheat for December delivery fell 6 cents to $8.08 a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade. Soybeans for January picked up 16.5 cents to $10.2575 a bushel, while December corn rose 5.25 cents to $3.755 a bushel.   
   RF5   INi13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1 : Energy   NSm14 : Commodity Markets | m143 : Energy Markets | m15 : Derivative Securities | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mcroil : Crude Oil Markets | e1202 : Interest Rates | mpcsmt : Precious Metals Markets | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m142 : Metals Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagapf | selapfin | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | APFN Commodities Review | D8SKE0L00   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020071031e3av002pb  



 HDU.S. Fed cuts rates again --- Quarter-point move signals central bank sees risks in balance      BYBy Greg Ip      WC660 words   PD1 November 2007   SNThe Wall Street Journal Asia   SCAWSJ   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. To see the edition in which this article appeared, click here   http://awsj.com.hk/factiva-ns
   LPThe U.S. Federal Reserve cut its target for short-term interest rates a quarter of a percentage point but sought in its accompanying statement to dispel expectations of more rate cuts.   

As markets had widely expected, the Fed cut the target for the federal-funds rate, charged on overnight loans between banks, to 4.5% from 4.75%, on the heels of a half-point cut in September.   
   TDThe two moves together, the Fed said in its accompanying statement, "help forestall some of the adverse effects on the broader economy that might otherwise arise" from the summer credit crunch that drove up interest rates paid by many homeowners, corporations and banks.   

But the statement, in an apparent attempt to rein in market expectations of more cuts, said it now saw the risks of weaker growth and higher inflation as "roughly balanced."   

Stocks and bonds sold off on the news. The Dow Jones Industrial Average , up over 80 points before the Fed's afternoon announcement, initially fell into negative territory. Long-term bond prices, which move in the opposite direction of yields, fell. The statement appears to sharply reduce the odds the Fed will cut rates again at its December meeting, as markets had expected.   

The statement also reflected continuing concern about inflation. "Readings on core inflation have improved modestly this year, but recent increases in energy and commodity prices, among other factors, may put renewed upward pressure on inflation . . . Some inflation risks remain, and it will continue to monitor inflation developments carefully."   

For the first time this year, the vote by the 10 voting members of the Federal Open Market Committee (seven regional bank presidents participate but do not vote), was not unanimous. Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City President Thomas Hoenig dissented, saying he would have preferred no cut.   

Mreover, only six of the Fed's 12 reserve banks requested the parallel decrease in the less important discount rate, charged on direct Fed loans to banks, to 5% from 5.25%.   

Those signals suggest the decision to cut rates may have been close. It may have been driven in part by a desire not to disappoint markets. With futures markets assigning a 92% probability Wednesday morning to a cut, a failure to deliver would have been the biggest surprise in the 13 years for which comparable data are available, according to Bianco Research LLC, a Chicago financial-research firm. That would likely have led to sharp declines in stock prices and a possible resurgence of risk aversion in debt markets.   

But while avoiding that fallout may have helped tilt the Fed toward a cut, economic and strategic considerations were almost certainly more important. While the Fed expects the economy to emerge from its housing-induced slow period by the middle of next year, the risks around that forecast are of weaker, not stronger growth. Economists on average put the odds of recession in the next 12 months at 34%.   

Mr. Bernanke and other Fed officials say "risk management" -- a phrase coined by previous Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan -- requires them to base interest-rate decisions not just on the likeliest forecast, but on less likely but potentially far more damaging outcomes. Thus, a rate cut could be justified on the possibility that housing activity and prices fall even further than currently envisioned, causing more loss of wealth and more mortgage delinquencies and market turmoil. For the Fed, cutting now may avoid having to cut even more later. Moreover, the risks of such a move appear acceptable: Inflation, by the Fed's preferred measure, has been below 2%, the upper end of what most officials consider acceptable, and with unemployment rising from 4.4% in April to 4.7% in September (October's figure is released tomorrow).   

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | ecat : Economic News | gvexe : Executive Branch | m131 : Money Markets | npag : Page-One Story | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCFED | USG | NND | TPX | PGO | TPT   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument AWSJ000020071031e3b100010  



 HDFED FOCUS-Dissent reveals growing hawkishness in Fed ranks      BYBy Alister Bull      WC564 words   PD31 October 2007   ET22:51   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007 Reuters Limited   
   LPWASHINGTON, Oct 31 (Reuters) - It wasn't an outright mutiny, but the split in the ranks of the Federal Reserve over the rate cut on Wednesday exposes concerns among a hawkish minority of policy-makers that tilt it against further easing.   

Kansas City Federal Reserve Bank President Thomas Hoenig dissented against a quarter-percentage point cut in the bellwether federal funds rate, preferring no change in rates, and only half of the nation's 12 regional Federal Reserve branches requested a matching reduction in the discount rate that governs direct Fed lending to banks.   
   TD"I don't think (Fed Chairman Ben) Bernanke is isolated, but you have a very strong minority that says, 'This is it'," said David Jones of Denver-based consultants DMJ Advisers.   

The Fed lowered the overnight federal funds rate to 4.5 percent as expected on Wedneday, but said recent increases in energy and commodity prices could renew pressure on inflation and risks of higher prices roughly balanced those of slower growth.   

"The hawks made their voices heard today," said Jones.   

It was Hoenig's fourth dissent since he took the reins in October 1991 of the Fed's tenth district, which includes Colorado, Kansas, Nebraska, Oklahoma, Wyoming, northern New Mexico and western Missouri.   

"Hoenig is a Fed veteran. It is hard to believe he would have dissented unless a few other Fed officials were on his side," wrote Roger Kubarych at  UniCredit.

"The implication is that bad housing figures, which are almost inevitable, won't be enough to compel the Fed to cut the funds rate (at the next meeting). Instead, it will take another sizable increase in the unemployment rate," he said.   

A government report on employment conditions in October, which will released on Friday, is expected to show 80,000 new jobs were created, while the unemployment rate is expected to remain unchanged at 4.7 percent.   

But a report from ADP Employer Services that U.S. private employers added 106,000 jobs in October was stronger than expected and hinted at a firmer overall labor market.   

In addition, the U.S. economy grew at a solid 3.9 percent annual rate in the third quarter, providing momentum to cushion activity in the final three months of the year as the economy deals with a housing slump and fallout from an August credit crunch.   

"While not yet 'Mutiny on the Bounty,' Tom Hoenig's vote against the additional quarter point cut is airing a growing minority view among central bankers that aggressive cutting of interest rates to rescue an ailing housing market may create even bigger inflation problems down the road,"  Wells Fargo senior economist Scott Anderson wrote in a note to clients.   

Indeed, interest rate futures scaled back the implied probability of another quarter percentage point cut at the Fed's next policy meeting on Dec. 11 to 42 percent from 64 percent overnight.   

That only six of the 12 regional Fed branches requested a quarter-point cut in the discount rate was "another indication that there was not widespread support for today's rate cut at the reserve banks," said Dean Maki, chief U.S. economist at  Barclays Capital.
   RFUSA-FED/DISSENT (ANALYSIS)|LANGEN|ABN|M|D|E|RBN|U|O|OIL|C|GRO|MTL|SOF|RNP|DNP|PCM|PEN   COfrbkc : Federal Reserve Bank Of Kansas City   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | e1202 : Interest Rates | gvexe : Executive Branch | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCFED | CEN | MCE | INT | WASH | PLCY | STIR   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020071031e3av002wa  



 HDUPDATE 2-HK banks cut rates, currency retreats from ceiling      BYBy Susan Fenton and Donny Kwok      WC674 words   PD1 November 2007   ET05:25   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007 Reuters Limited   
   LPHONG KONG, Nov 1 (Reuters) - Hong Kong banks on Thursday said they would cut their prime lending rates in line with a reduction in U.S. borrowing costs, while the Hong Kong dollar eased away from the ceiling of its trading band with the U.S. dollar.   

The Hong Kong dollar has been bumping against the upper limit of its linked exchange rate system to the U.S. dollar, prompting the territory's central bank to intervene five times on Wednesday to keep its currency peg with the U.S. dollar intact.   
   TDThat intervention, which injected HK$7.8 billion (US$1 billion) into the banking system, pushed down interbank rates, giving banks leeway to cut prime rates on Thursday.   

The Hong Kong dollar is the second-most traded currency in Asia after the Japanese yen.   

The currency peg with the U.S. dollar forces the Hong Kong Monetary Authority (HKMA) to track U.S. interest rate moves but local banks have more flexibility in setting their prime rates, the rates they charge their most creditworthy borrowers.   

The central bank on Thursday lowered the base rate charged through its overnight discount window by 25 basis points to 6 percent after the U.S. Federal Reserve cut its benchmark federal funds rate by a quarter of a percentage point on Wednesday.   

HSBC Holdings Plc , the territory's biggest bank, its subsidiary Hang Seng Bank and other lenders, including Standard Chartered Bank ,  Bank of China (Hong Kong) and  Bank of East Asia , said they would reduce their prime rates from Friday by 25 basis points to between 7.25 and 7.5 percent.   

They will also cut their savings rates by a quarter point.   

The Hong Kong dollar <HKD=> is pegged at 7.8 to the U.S. dollar but can trade between 7.75 and 7.85. It fell on Thursday and was quoted at 7.7553 in late trade, after hitting its upper limit at 7.75 repeatedly on Wednesday, driven by strong demand for Hong Kong dollars to buy stocks.   

Analysts said there had also been signs of speculative trade.   

RUMOURS COOL   

Speculation dissipated on Thursday after the HKMA dismissed a report by U.S.-based research house Medley Global Advisors the previous day which said Hong Kong officials had lobbied Beijing to adjust the currency peg but Beijing had refused.   

The HKMA said the report was unfounded and its Chief Executive Joseph Yam said Hong Kong had no plans to re-peg the local dollar at a different level or widen its trading band. For details, double click on [ID:nHKG269070].   

"Maybe the speculation will take a rest for a bit," said Daniel Chan, senior investment strategist at DBS Bank.   

Economists say a de-pegging of the currency is unlikely.   

"We do not foresee a break in Hong Kong's currency link, because any move would be politically too sensitive for the (Hong Kong) government and, more importantly, for Beijing," investment bank  Credit Suisse said in a research note released on Thursday.   

Interbank rates have been trading at six-month highs amid a global credit squeeze that has made banks reluctant to lend to each other, and amid tight demand for Hong Kong dollars to fund new listings on the stock market.   

But the one-month interbank rate dropped to as low as 3.93/4.00 percent on Thursday, its lowest since February and down from 4.7 percent before the HKMA intervention on Wednesday.   

Analysts said interbank rates were dampened by both Wednesday's fund injection and the U.S. interest rate cut.   

Interbank rates are now back below U.S. dollar interbank rates and traders said carry trades, to take advantage of the interest rate differential by selling Hong Kong dollars for U.S. dollars, was re-emerging.   

(US$=HK$7.8) (Additional reporting by Christina Lo)   
   RFHONGKONG/RATES (UPDATE 2)|LANGEN|ABN|M|E|RBN|D|Z|RNP|DNP   INibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | m131 : Money Markets | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REasiaz : Asia | china : China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | usa : United States | hkong : Hong Kong | chinaz : Greater China | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America   IPCTCF | MCE | INT | STIR | FRX | MMT | DBT | BNK | FIN | BANK | BSVC | CPX   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020071101e3b1000cb  



 HDANALYSIS-Are the world's central banks losing control?      BYBy Mike Dolan      WC1,022 words   PD31 October 2007   ET14:19   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007 Reuters Limited   
   LPLONDON, Oct 31 (Reuters) - Central banks, lauded as near infallible pilots of the monetary economy in recent years, are facing uncomfortable doubts about their collective grip on credit markets, interest rate structures and inflation.   

With the U.S. Federal Reserve expected to deliver its second official interest rate cut in less than six weeks on Wednesday -- less than three months after it declared inflation to be its predominant concern -- financial markets are growing sceptical.   
   TDAnd questions about how much sway the world's most influential central bank may be losing over its banking system are infecting its leading counterparts across the globe too.   

Since this year's slump in U.S. mortgage assets morphed into a full-blown global lending crisis in August, central banks' everywhere have struggled to retain traditionally lock-step control of short-term interbank lending rates critical to much of the borrowing in their economies.   

A private-sector tightening of credit conditions -- which saw bellwether three-month London interbank rates in euros, dollars, sterling and others jump more than half a percentage point regardless of central bank policy -- persists and has already crimped lending across the U.S. and Europe.   

Yet the Fed, faced with a steeper, housing-led slowdown than others, has raced to offset this with official rate cuts.   

And in doing so it has presided over a plummeting dollar and supercharged emerging markets, oil and commodity prices.   

The net result is that market inflation expectations -- crucial in assessing investor confidence in central banks keeping a lid on inflation over time -- are now rising. "The Fed's forecasting record is in tatters, the dollar is in tatters and inflation expectations are ticking up," said Nick Parsons, chief market strategist at nabCapital in London. "They are now in danger of losing control of every part of the yield curve from overnight out to 10-years."   

"Losing control of Libor may be unfortunate, but losing control of official rates is potentially disastrous."   

Whether he carries part of the blame or not, former Fed chief Alan Greenspan said this month he believes central banks, including the Fed, have struggled for years to influence long-term rates central to the pivotal housing boom and bust.   

"Central banks have essentially lost control of markets beyond 3, 4, 5 years out," Greenspan said.   

Fed communications, long its strength, are also in question.   

Speculation was rife this week that the Fed tried to orchestrate an 11th-hour dampening of expectations for another 25 basis point cut in its Fed funds target rate to 4.5 percent because markets had assigned a 100 percent probability to the move.   

This has fuelled a concern the Fed may be led into cutting rates simply because it fears disappointing housing and mortgage markets that are already depressing the economic outlook.   

The upshot is many now believe the Fed and other banks are willing tolerate higher inflation to square the circle.   

GREAT EXPECTATIONS   

Forecasting a rise in headline U.S. inflation to 3.4 percent in the fourth quarter from 2.8 percent now, strategists at Goldman Sachs think this price acceleration may well stick.   

Judging inflation expectations by bond market "breakevens" -- the difference between index-linked or inflation-protected government bond yields and those on underlying cash bonds -- Goldman sees a significant deterioration ahead.   

Ten-year breakevens are now 2.34 percent -- up more than a quarter of a point since the Fed started cutting rates and already well above the 1-2 percent long-term inflation levels most economists see the Fed being comfortable with.   

Goldman's Mike Vaknin sees these rising to 2.60 percent.   

"The Fed's easing policy...can have a detrimental effect on longer-term inflation expectations," Goldman said in a note to clients, adding soaring oil prices and a falling dollar would aggravate the price outlook over the coming months.   

Forced to suspend a planned interest rate rise in September, the European Central Bank's picture is not much better.   

Despite an uncontrolled tightening of lending conditions over the past two months -- where 3-month euro Libor is still more than half a percentage point above official rates -- the ECB is also seeing inflation and inflation expectations rising.   

Euro zone inflation surged to 2.6 percent in October from 2.1 percent the previous month, Eurostat reported on Wednesday. And ten-year breakevens in the euro area have risen to 2.3 percent from under 2 percent in August -- well above the ECB's target of 2 percent or just under it.   

And it's not just the big western central banks that have had monetary frameworks stretched at the seams.   

Many booming emerging markets from China to oil exporters in the Middle East have strict U.S. dollar exchange rate pegs.   

Yet, despite some growth rates in excess of 10 percent they are being forced to match Fed easing to keep those pegs -- flooding local banking systems with ever more cash as a result.   

The upward pressure on their exchange rates is intense and speculation they will have to break these links is rife.   

An example of the pressure on Hong Kong's peg, for example, was seen in data showing M3 money supply growth soaring to 28.3 percent year-on-year in September from 18.6 percent in August.   

Even if you believe the leading central banks are still in charge Thomas Mayer, chief European economist at Deutsche Bank, says the dilemma they face is that "there is no nice, middle way."   

Central banks have to choose between tolerating higher inflation in return for helping debtors honour nominal debts or forcing creditors into writeoffs that would see asset prices slump and recession ensue.   

As they seem to be choosing the former, markets are wary.   

Helping debtors repay is one thing, but if inflation erodes the value of those repayments, creditors will demand a price that will lead to higher borrowing costs.   

"If financial markets wake up to rising inflation -- then we have a problem," said Mayer.   
   RFGLOBAL-CENTRALBANKS (ANALYSIS)|LANGEN|ABX|BNX|FUN   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | nanl : Analysis | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020071031e3av001pc  



 HDThe Afternoon Report: Reckoning Rates      BYBy Matt Phillips      WC1,454 words   PD31 October 2007   SNThe Wall Street Journal Online   SCWSJO   LAEnglish   CYCopyright (c) 2007, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.   
   LPThe U.S. economy beefed up over the summer, despite weak-kneed financial and housing markets. Still, investors aren't expecting the data to keep the Federal Reserve from taking another whack at interest rates today.   
   TDIn its first pass at calculating growth for the July-through-September quarter, the Commerce Department estimated that gross domestic product -- a broad measure of the economy's physique -- rose at an annual rate of 3.9%, up a tick from the second quarter's 3.8% growth and besting the guesses of 24 Wall Street shamans surveyed by Dow Jones Newswires. Their consensus call was 3.2% GDP growth during the quarter. True enough, there was housing-related softness in the report, as residential investment tumbled 20% and zapped more than a percentage point of growth out of the final number. But there were plenty of off-setting bright spots, such as the undaunted millions piloting our national fleet of shopping carts. Consumer spending is the biggest component of GDP and it climbed 3% during the third quarter after posting more of a pipsqueak percentage, 1.4%, during the spring quarter. There were other signs of strength too, especially in exports, which shot up 16% thanks in part to the falling dollar, and business spending, which saw a 7.9% bump. In a separate report, U.S. construction spending unexpectedly jumped in September, with government-financed projects picking up the slack in the housing sector.   

Alas, nothing is simple for Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke and his elite squad of econo-wonks, who are, as of this writing, putting final flourishes on their latest masterpiece of a press release announcing their decision on interest rates. (It's due at 2:15 p.m.). The rosier-than-expected GDP and construction numbers might not have much bearing on the Fed's decision-making, which most handicappers expect will produce a quarter-percentage-point cut in the federal funds rate. That is mostly because these numbers offer a slightly stale view of the economy. "The question now is how well it can withstand even steeper declines in residential construction, the general tightening in credit conditions, falling house prices, oil prices at around $90 per barrel, and their negative implications for consumer and business spending," wrote Nigel Gault, an economist with research firm Global Insight. Such stresses would help make the case for easier credit.   

But not all dismal scientists discounted today's GDP figures. At Nomura Securities, analysts wrote that "the surprising GDP strength could be enough to persuade the FOMC to defer any decision about the need for another rate cut until a clearer picture of the fourth quarter has formed." And analysts with  Bear Stearns wrapped up their GDP commentary by noting refound strength in an employment report from payroll processing giant ADP. "With the evidence [from this morning's ADP report] suggesting that private payrolls grew around 100,000 in October, and with back-to-back quarters of near 4% real GDP growth, the economic argument for a further rate cut at this point is unclear to us." In any event, investors will be surprised with anything other than a quarter-point rate cut today, as they were pegging the chances for such a snip -- via fed-funds futures -- at more than 90% early in the day   

---   

Stocks Rise Ahead of Fed Decision   

Stocks advanced early Wednesday on encouraging third-quarter economic data ahead of the Federal Reserve's interest-rate decision this afternoon. The Dow Jones Industrial Average was up by 0.5% after midday. The S&P 500-stock index rose by about 0.8% and the Nasdaq Composite Index rose by more than 0.8%.  Google's shares passed $700 as news of the search giant's mobile-services plans continued to filter out. Bonds declined, with the 10-year note and the 30-year bond both sinking. Crude oil futures rose by more than $3 after midday. The dollar was mixed, losing ground against the euro and rising against the yen. European markets rose, and Asian markets were mixed.   

---   

Alcatel-Lucent to Speed Restructuring   

Struggling telecommunications-equipment maker  Alcatel-Lucent promised further job cuts and plans to shrink its top management team from 21 to seven as it contends with weak earnings since it completed its merger last December. Chief Executive Patricia Russo also announced that Chief Financial Officer Jean-Pascal Beaufret would be replaced. Analysts gave the announcement mixed reviews.   

---   

Euro-zone Inflation Picks Up   

Euro-zone inflation accelerated to a 25-month high in October and the unemployment picture brightened. But economic sentiment declined further, suggesting that the bloc's expansion will slow in the wake of the credit crunch, as well as indicating that the European Central Bank will resist raising rates for now.   

---   

China Raises Fuel Prices   

China will raise the prices of gasoline, diesel oil and aviation kerosene by 500 yuan ($67) per ton, or roughly 10%, starting from Nov. 1, as regional shortages of fuel spread and even reached Beijing. "The adjustment was made to shorten the gap between high-flying international crude prices and domestic oil prices," the National Development and Reform Commission said in announcing the move.   

Alleged Leader of Madrid Attacks Acquitted, Others Found Guilty   

A Spanish court convicted three lead defendants of murder in connection with the 2004 Madrid terror bombings, but acquitted an Egyptian who allegedly bragged that he masterminded the plot.   

---   

Deutsche Bank's Net Rises 31%; Capital Gains Offset Trading Losses   

Deutsche Bank posted slightly better-than-expected earnings as it was forced to take write-downs -- around 2.2 billion euros in the third quarter -- on assets that have proved harder to sell to investors after the credit markets turned sour this summer.   

MasterCard's third-quarter net income grew 63%, helped by a gain from an asset sale and continued strong growth in cardholder transactions, especially internationally. Shares jumped.   

Soaring commodity costs -- notably dairy -- and charges helped pull Kraft's net income down 20%.   

IAC/InterActiveCorp reported a 4.2% drop in third-quarter net income amid higher costs as home-shopping channel HSN showed signs of a turnaround.   

Pioneer and Hitachi posted weak earnings results for the fiscal second quarter and first half, respectively, as both companies struggled with weak sales of plasma TVs.   

Lazard's third-quarter net income tripled amid record results for the investment firm, including a strong merger-advisory performance.   

Newmont Mining, the world's second-largest gold producer by output, said third-quarter net income doubled, aided by surging gold prices, a tax gain and a joint-venture settlement.   

- - -   

Pakistan's Supreme Court Will Probe Bhutto Attack   

Pakistan's top judge said he will probe the bloody suicide attack on ex-Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto's homecoming parade, wading further into the country's deepening political turmoil. The blast during Ms. Bhutto's homecoming in Karachi on Oct. 18 killed more than 140 people and was the deadliest incident in a wave of violence that has raised fears for nuclear-armed Pakistan's stability. Also, aides say Ms. Bhutto is planning a trip outside of Pakistan to visit her family.   

---   

Bush to Name Agriculture Secretary   

President Bush is expected to nominate Edward Schafer, a former two-term Republican governor from North Dakota, to be his next secretary of agriculture today, according to a senior administration official. Mr. Schafer, who chose not to run again in North Dakota in 2000, will succeed Mike Johanns, who resigned as agriculture secretary last month to launch a bid for the Nebraska Senate seat being vacated by Republican Chuck Hagel at the end of next year.   

---   

Potential Bidding War Over Digital Map Maker   

Garmin, the biggest U.S. maker of car-navigation devices, unveiled an unsolicited $3.3 billion takeover offer for Dutch digital map maker Tele Atlas, topping a July offer by rival TomTom, of Amsterdam, by 15%.   

---   

Earthquake Rattles Bay Area   

The San Francisco Bay area's largest earthquake in nearly two decades rattled homes and nerves, but the magnitude-5.6 temblor caused no serious damage or injuries. Tuesday's night's tremor, centered about 9 miles northeast of San Jose, was the strongest to hit the Bay Area since October 1989, when the Loma Prieta earthquake caused 62 deaths and nearly $6 billion in damage.   

---   

Northern Rock Hires Blackstone as Adviser   

Troubled British mortgage lender  Northern Rock confirmed that it had hired  Blackstone Group as its third adviser in addition to  Merrill Lynch and  Citigroup as part of its strategic review, which it is due to complete by February.   

---   

The Associated Press contributed to this report.   

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   NSe1101 : Economic Growth | nsum : News Digest | e1202 : Interest Rates | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | niwe : IWE Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCNND | TPX   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument WSJO000020071101e3av00003  



 HDUPDATE 4-Fed cuts rates but signals scant appetite for more      BYBy Mark Felsenthal      WC798 words   PD31 October 2007   ET19:19   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007 Reuters Limited   
   LP(Adds analyst's comment in paragraph 5, and primary dealer poll in paragraph 15)   

WASHINGTON, Oct 31 (Reuters) - The Federal Reserve cut U.S. interest rates by a quarter-percentage point on Wednesday to buffer the economy from a housing downturn, but suggested further rate reductions were far from a sure bet.   
   TDThe decision by the central bank's Federal Open Market Committee to lower the overnight federal funds rate to 4.5 percent -- a move that followed a more aggressive half-point cut last month -- was widely expected.   

But the Fed offered a bit of a surprise by saying the risk of inflation was about equal with downside risks to growth.   

That statement, coupled with a dissent from  Kansas City Federal Reserve Bank President Thomas Hoenig, who favored holding rates steady, threw cold water on expectations that additional reductions in borrowing costs are in store.   

"The Fed has no inclination to cut rates further unless the economic data suggest otherwise. Hence, barring another financial shock, the economic data will have to weaken for Fed easing to come back on the table," said Joseph LaVorgna, chief U.S. economist for  Deutsche Bank.

U.S. Treasury debt prices fell and stocks initially dropped as traders saw the Fed's statement suggesting a lower likelihood of further rate reductions.   

Stock prices, however, later turned around and the blue- chip Dow Jones industrial average <.DJI> closed up 137.54 points, while the dollar hit a record low against the euro.   

U.S. interest-rate futures contracts implied only a 42 percent chance the Fed will lower rates again at its next meeting in December, down from 64 percent overnight.   

In announcing its decision, the U.S. central bank said its actions should put the economy on better footing and help it weather the housing slump and related credit market woes.   

"The pace of economic expansion will likely slow in the near term, partly reflecting the intensification of the housing correction," the Fed said. But it said its rate cuts "should help forestall some of the adverse effects on the broader economy that might otherwise arise from the disruptions in financial markets and promote moderate growth over time."   

The decision by the Fed to lower the federal funds rate, which governs overnight borrowing between banks, led major banks to lower the prime rate they charge on loans to their best customers. It could also lead to lower rates on credit cards and auto loans for consumers; most mortgage rates, however, are tied to long-term rates set by the markets.   

TENSION IN THE RANKS   

In its statement, the central bank cautioned that it has not put to bed worries about price pressures, a point underscored by Hoenig's dissent.   

"Recent increases in energy and commodity prices, among other factors, may put renewed upward pressure on inflation," the Fed said. "In this context, the committee judges that some inflation risks remain.   

After this (rate) action, "the upside risks to inflation roughly balance the downside risks to growth," it added.   

A Reuters poll of 20 top bond trading firms that deal directly with the Fed in the markets found seven believe the rate-cutting cycle is now over. The median forecast from the firms was that rates would eventually bottom out one-quarter point lower at 4.25 percent.   

More details on the Fed's thinking are likely to emerge on Nov. 8 when Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke testifies before the congressional Joint Economic Committee.   

In addition to lowering the federal funds rate, the Fed's main economic lever, the central bank on Wednesday also trimmed the discount rate by a quarter-percentage point to 5 percent. The discount rate governs loans the Fed makes directly to banks having trouble finding the cash they need in the market.   

Credit markets, which were roiled in August as concerns mounted over rising delinquencies in the U.S. mortgage market, have regained some stability since the Fed lowered rates by a half-percentage point on Sept. 18.   

As policy-makers convened on Wednesday, a government report showed that growth in the third quarter was considerably stronger than most economists expected.   

U.S. gross domestic product, which measures total production within the country's borders, grew at an annual rate of 3.9 percent in the July-September period -- the strongest advance since the first quarter of 2006.   

A separate report showed private-sector employers added more jobs than expected in October, implying more underlying strength to the economy than previously thought. (Additional reporting by Glenn Somerville)   
   RFUSA-FED/ (UPDATE 4)|LANGEN|ABN|C|D|E|M|O|U|MTL|GRO|SOF|OIL|G|RBN|J|Z|CANT|AUF|UKI|RNP   COfrbkc : Federal Reserve Bank Of Kansas City   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | e1202 : Interest Rates | gvexe : Executive Branch | m131 : Money Markets | ntop : Dow Jones/Reuters Top Wire News | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCWASH | MUNI | DBT | GVD | FED | CEN | MCE | PLCY | STIR | INT | MMT | NEWS | FED/CHRONO   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020071031e3av002dw  



 HDUPDATE 4-Fed cuts rates but signals scant appetite for more      BYBy Mark Felsenthal      WC788 words   PD31 October 2007   ET22:47   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007 Reuters Limited   
   LP(Adds analyst's comment in paragraph 5, and primary dealer poll in paragraph 15)   

WASHINGTON, Oct 31 (Reuters) - The Federal Reserve cut U.S. interest rates by a quarter-percentage point on Wednesday to buffer the economy from a housing downturn, but suggested further rate reductions were far from a sure bet.   
   TDThe decision by the central bank's Federal Open Market Committee to lower the overnight federal funds rate to 4.5 percent -- a move that followed a more aggressive half-point cut last month -- was widely expected.   

But the Fed offered a bit of a surprise by saying the risk of inflation was about equal with downside risks to growth.   

That statement, coupled with a dissent from  Kansas City Federal Reserve Bank President Thomas Hoenig, who favored holding rates steady, threw cold water on expectations that additional reductions in borrowing costs are in store.   

"The Fed has no inclination to cut rates further unless the economic data suggest otherwise. Hence, barring another financial shock, the economic data will have to weaken for Fed easing to come back on the table," said Joseph LaVorgna, chief U.S. economist for  Deutsche Bank.

U.S. Treasury debt prices fell and stocks initially dropped as traders saw the Fed's statement suggesting a lower likelihood of further rate reductions.   

Stock prices, however, later turned around and the blue- chip Dow Jones industrial average closed up 137.54 points, while the dollar hit a record low against the euro.   

U.S. interest-rate futures contracts implied only a 42 percent chance the Fed will lower rates again at its next meeting in December, down from 64 percent overnight.   

In announcing its decision, the U.S. central bank said its actions should put the economy on better footing and help it weather the housing slump and related credit market woes.   

"The pace of economic expansion will likely slow in the near term, partly reflecting the intensification of the housing correction," the Fed said. But it said its rate cuts "should help forestall some of the adverse effects on the broader economy that might otherwise arise from the disruptions in financial markets and promote moderate growth over time."   

The decision by the Fed to lower the federal funds rate, which governs overnight borrowing between banks, led major banks to lower the prime rate they charge on loans to their best customers. It could also lead to lower rates on credit cards and auto loans for consumers; most mortgage rates, however, are tied to long-term rates set by the markets.   

TENSION IN THE RANKS   

In its statement, the central bank cautioned that it has not put to bed worries about price pressures, a point underscored by Hoenig's dissent.   

"Recent increases in energy and commodity prices, among other factors, may put renewed upward pressure on inflation," the Fed said. "In this context, the committee judges that some inflation risks remain.   

After this (rate) action, "the upside risks to inflation roughly balance the downside risks to growth," it added.   

A Reuters poll of 20 top bond trading firms that deal directly with the Fed in the markets found seven believe the rate-cutting cycle is now over. The median forecast from the firms was that rates would eventually bottom out one-quarter point lower at 4.25 percent.   

More details on the Fed's thinking are likely to emerge on Nov. 8 when Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke testifies before the congressional Joint Economic Committee.   

In addition to lowering the federal funds rate, the Fed's main economic lever, the central bank on Wednesday also trimmed the discount rate by a quarter-percentage point to 5 percent. The discount rate governs loans the Fed makes directly to banks having trouble finding the cash they need in the market.   

Credit markets, which were roiled in August as concerns mounted over rising delinquencies in the U.S. mortgage market, have regained some stability since the Fed lowered rates by a half-percentage point on Sept. 18.   

As policy-makers convened on Wednesday, a government report showed that growth in the third quarter was considerably stronger than most economists expected.   

U.S. gross domestic product, which measures total production within the country's borders, grew at an annual rate of 3.9 percent in the July-September period -- the strongest advance since the first quarter of 2006.   

A separate report showed private-sector employers added more jobs than expected in October, implying more underlying strength to the economy than previously thought. (Additional reporting by Glenn Somerville)   
   RFUSA-FED/ (UPDATE 4)|LANGEN|AFA|CSA|LBY|RWSA|RWS|REULB|GNS|ABX|BNX|SXNA   COfrbkc : Federal Reserve Bank Of Kansas City   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | e1202 : Interest Rates | gvexe : Executive Branch | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCWASH | FED | CEN | MCE | PLCY | STIR | INT   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020071031e3av002w4  



 HDDollar lending stress persists after Fed rate cut      BYBy Natsuko Waki      WC499 words   PD1 November 2007   ET17:23   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007 Reuters Limited   
   LPLONDON, Nov 1 (Reuters) - Interbank dollar lending rates fell to 1-1/2 year lows on Thursday after the Federal Reserve cut key interest rates by a quarter point to 4.5 percent, but the Fed move failed to ease persistent distortions in the money market.   

The gap between the Fed's new target for overnight interbank funds and interbank dollar lending rates overseas -- a key gauge of the severity of the three-month old credit crunch by reflecting banks' hoarding of cash -- has crept higher.   
   TDAt 38 basis points, this spread is up 4 basis points from Wednesday and remains far above historical averages of 10-15 basis points.   

Spreads reached 70 basis points on August 10, when the credit crunch started. They were at 49 bps the day after the Fed cut interest rates by half a point in September.   

"Spreads have improved (in recent weeks) but they are still wide. The credit crisis in terms of interbank lending is not over. Banks are still hoarding liquidity and imposing higher borrowing costs," said Trevor Williams, head of group economic research at Lloyds Financial Markets.   

"However, absolute levels have come off and some people say that's what determines the economic activity. The cost of borrowing is not as bad as it appears to be on the surface in the interbank market."   

London interbank offered rate for three-month dollar deposits fell on Thursday to 4.8775 percent <LIBOR>, its lowest since March 2006. The rates for overnight dollar deposits fell to 4.64125 percent, also a 1-1/2 year low.   

Analysts say the future move in spreads depends on market expectations for future U.S. interest rate cuts.   

"We see little scope for the dollar Libor-funds spread to narrow below 30 bp and unless or until the market now turns to fully price in a further 25bp at the Dec 11th meeting, three month Libor could struggle to break below 4.80 percent in the near-term," Nick Parsons, head of market strategy at nabCapital, said in a note to clients.   

The sharp rise in interbank lending of August to September stemmed from the fallout in the U.S. subprime mortgage market and the near closure of the short-term asset-backed commercial paper (ABCP) market.   

Troubles in the credit market have prompted banks to hoard cash so that they could cover their potential losses in structured products exposed to the risky mortgage market.   

The ABCP market shows little sign of recovering, with Fed data showing the size of the U.S. ABCP market shrinking for a 12 straight week to $874.7 billion in the week ending October 31.   

Three-month euro rates fell to 4.59875 percent, their lowest since August 16 -- a day before the Federal Reserve delivered an emergency cut in the discount rate.   
   RFMARKETS-MONEY|LANGEN|ABN|M|D|NAT|UKI|RBN|RNP|DNP|PTD|PMF   INibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | m131 : Money Markets | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REeurz : Europe | uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | weurz : Western Europe | eecz : European Union Countries | namz : North America   IPCFRX | DRV | DBT | BNK | FIN | MMT | STIR | MCE | INT   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020071101e3b10029p  



 HDMORTGAGES/AGENCIES-Prices lag Treasury rally as stocks slide   BYBy Julie Haviv      WC596 words   PD1 November 2007   ET20:46   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007 Reuters Limited   
   LPNEW YORK, Nov 1 (Reuters) - Prices of U.S. mortgage-backed securities and agency debt trailed sharply higher Treasuries on Thursday as a stock market sell-off and renewed credit market concerns caused investors to seek safety in government bonds.

The safe-haven buying failed to spill over into spread products issued by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac despite their triple-A ratings.
   TDThe rally in Treasuries offset losses garnered during the previous session after the Federal Reserve lowered interest rates and signaled it may refrain from further easing if the economy holds up.

"Investors are concerned about a diminished appetite for risk in the market," said Scott Kirby, sector leader for structured products at RiverSource Investments, an Ameriprise Financial Company based in Minneapolis.

"There are concerns about liquidation of positions and selling in the market due to further price erosion on troubled assets," he said. "In the near-term, I think price action in mortgage-backeds will be choppy and risk appetite will be pretty constrained."

The mortgage bond market over the near-term faces several obstacles, but Kirby said over the long-term the level of spreads in the market and the current level of compensation for taking risk is reasonably attractive at this point.

Kirby, who oversees roughly $25 billion in an array of different mortgage-type securities in RiverSource's roughly $100 billion fixed-income portfolio, has expectations that the appetite for risk will return and spreads will tighten and so investors will be rewarded for having risk on their books over time.

Active 15- and 30-year mortgage securities were 4/32 to 17/32 higher. Bond equivalent yields on 30-year 5.50 percent coupon MBS ranged from 5.563 percent to 5.760 percent.

Prices on 30-year 6 percent coupons were 8/32 to 9/32 higher. Bond equivalent yields ranged from 5.637 percent to 5.780 percent.

The yield premium on Fannie Mae MBS paying 6 percent interest versus the 10-year Treasury note widened to 1.368 percentage points on Thursday from 1.35 percentage points on Wednesday, according to Reuters data.

Fannie Mae 5.375 percent 10-year benchmark notes due June 12, 2017, were 2.5 basis points wider at 50.5 basis points bid and 48.5 basis points offered over Treasuries.

U.S. benchmark 10-year Treasury notes <US10YT=RR> were a full point higher at 103-5/32 to yield 4.348 percent. Yields, which move inversely to price, were down from Wednesday's 4.467 percent.

Government data showing tame core inflation and weaker consumer spending, together with a private-sector report of slower manufacturing growth, cut risk appetite and boosted bond prices. For more details, see [ID:nN01469383]

The stock sell-off and renewed credit worries led traders to put back bets that the Federal Reserve would lower rates again at its Dec. 11 policy meeting. U.S. interest rate futures implied roughly a 66 percent chance of another quarter-percentage point cut at the Fed's last 2007 meeting, up from 41 percent at Wednesday's close and roughly equal to the level prior the FOMC statement.

Market participants are now shifting their focus to data gauging the state of the labor market.

Friday's payroll report is typically one of the key market movers every month, primarily because the central bank's monetary policy is heavily reliant on economic data. 
   RFMARKETS-MORTGAGES/AGENCIES|LANGEN|Table|ABN|M|D|E|RBN|U   COfednat : Fannie Mae   INi81501 : Credit Types/Services | i8150103 : Mortgages/Real Estate Credit | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe1122 : Mortgage Applications/Refinancing | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | cmabs : Mortgage Backed Securities | emort : Mortgage Rate | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | c17 : Funding/Capital | c172 : Corporate Debt Instruments | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCDBT | GVD | DRV | MTG | AGN | FIN | AGN/ | MTG/ | EMBG:DBT | embargokeyE1   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020071104e3b1000m3  



 HDDollar interbank lending rates hit 1-1/2 yr low      WC162 words   PD1 November 2007   ET12:55   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007 Reuters Limited   
   LPLONDON, Nov 1 (Reuters) - Interbank lending rates for overnight and three-month dollar deposits fell to 1-1/2 year lows on Thursday, a day after the Federal Reserve cut interest rates by a quarter point.   

London interbank offered rate for three-month dollar deposits fell to 4.8775 percent at their daily fixing <LIBOR>, their lowest since March 2006, according to the data by the British Bankers Association.   
   TDThe rates for overnight dollar deposits fell to 4.64125 percent, also a 1-1/2 year low.   

The dollar rates have been coming off steadily in the run up to the Fed's interest rate cut to 4.5 percent on Wednesday.   

Three-month euro rates fell to 4.59875 percent, their lowest since August 16 -- a day before the Federal Reserve delivered an emergency cut in the discount rate.   
   RFLANGEN|ABN|M|D|NAT|UKI|RNP|DNP|PTD   INibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | m131 : Money Markets | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REeurz : Europe | uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | weurz : Western Europe | eecz : European Union Countries | namz : North America   IPCFRX | DRV | DBT | BNK | FIN | MMT | STIR | MCE | INT   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020071101e3b1001is  



 HDUPDATE 1-CME Oct volume growth lower on Eurodollar slump      WC250 words   PD1 November 2007   ET16:54   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007 Reuters Limited   
   LP(Adds details)   

CHICAGO, Nov 1 (Reuters) - CME Group , the world's largest derivatives exchange, said on Thursday that average daily trading volume in October dropped 18 percent from September, but was up 14 percent from a year ago.   
   TDThe year-on-year growth was the slowest for CME since it absorbed cross-town rival the Chicago Board of Trade in July. Total monthly volume was some 218 million contracts.   

Activity in CME's biggest contract, Eurodollar futures, was down 7 percent from a year ago to about 1.9 million contracts a day, and Eurodollar options volume dropped 15 percent from a year earlier.   

That helped pull year-on-year growth in the interest rate segment, CME's largest, to 5 percent.   

Eurodollar contracts are used to bet on or hedge against changes in Federal Reserve interest rate policy.   

By contrast, activity in e-mini stock index futures contracts expanded by 53 percent on the year and in foreign exchange contracts by 31 percent.   

CME said total electronic volume on its Globex trading platform averaged 7.7 million contracts a day, up 28 percent on the year.   

Electronic volume accounted for some 81 percent of monthly turnover, a new high. Turnover on CME's open-outcry trading floors was down 23 percent from a year ago, to an average of 1.7 million contracts a day.   
   RFCME/VOLUME (UPDATE 1)|LANGEN|ABN|E|RBN|U|RNP|DNP   INibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | m15 : Derivative Securities | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCINVS | FIN | DRV | EXCA | RES | BSVC | FINS | INT | MCE | STIR | DBT | CPX   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020071101e3b100255  



 HDFed  interest rate  meeting restarts, cut expected      WC180 words   PD31 October 2007   ET14:05   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007 Reuters Limited   
   LPWASHINGTON, Oct 31 (Reuters) - The U.S. Federal Reserve resumed a meeting on Wednesday that analysts expect will deliver a quarter-percentage point cut in benchmark overnight interest rates to 4.5 percent.   

A Fed official said the meeting, which opened on Tuesday, resumed at 9 a.m. (1300 GMT). A statement outlining the Fed's interest-rate decision is expected around 2:15 p.m. (1815 GMT).   
   TDAnalysts expect the Fed to ease borrowing costs again as additional insurance for the U.S. economy against its slumping housing market and the fallout from a credit crunch.   

Housing and credit problems have tightened financial conditions and could sap consumer spending, curbing growth and forcing up the country's currently low level of unemployment.   

At its last meeting on Sept. 18, the Fed cut its target for the bellwether federal funds rate by a half-point to 4.75 percent.   
   RFUSA-FED/MEETING|LANGEN|ABN|C|D|E|M|O|U|MTL|GRO|SOF|OIL|G|RBN|ABX|BNX|RNP|PGE   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | e1202 : Interest Rates | gvexe : Executive Branch | ntop : Dow Jones/Reuters Top Wire News | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | ncat : Content Types   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCWASH | FED | CEN | MCE | PLCY | STIR | INT | FIN | BNK | NEWS | EMBG:PLCY | embargokeyE1R1:1   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020071031e3av001nz  



 HDTaiwan dollar nearly flat U.S. on rate outlook, stocks      WC386 words   PD30 October 2007   ET02:53   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007 Reuters Limited   
   LP (Updates to close)   

 TAIPEI, Oct 30 (Reuters) - The Taiwan dollar closed nearly flat on Tuesday as the impact from falling stocks offset guarded anticipation of a U.S. interest rate cut this week.   
   TD Taiwan's currency <TWD=TP> closed at T$32.410 to the U.S. dollar compared with Monday's close of T$32.415 after reaching an intraday peak of T$32.335.   

 A U.S. interest rate cut would narrow the difference between U.S. and Taiwan rates, bolstering the local currency's appeal.   

 Uncertainty ahead of the Fed's decision held back the local currency, but few traders in Taiwan are worried, dealers said.  "Mainly that's because the Taiwan currency market isn't the same as markets internationally, as the central bank can step in," a dealer said. "So traders are optimistic."   

 The U.S. edged up from record lows against the euro and a basket of major currencies on Tuesday, but it remained under pressure from expectations that the Federal Reserve will lower interest rates when its two-day meeting ends on Wednesday and possibly again later this year.   

 The euro fell 0.1 percent to $1.4404 <EUR=>, off a record peak of $1.4439 hit on trading platform EBS on Monday, the highest since its launch in 1999.   

 The Fed is expected to cut rates by a quarter point to 4.5 percent on Wednesday to prevent the U.S. economy from sustaining broader damage from deterioration in the housing sector.   

 Taiwan stocks <.TWII>, which closed 0.53 lower on Tuesday after hitting a 7-year high a day earlier, also weighed on the local currency.   

 Oil importers were active on Tuesday, buying U.S. dollars and pressuring the Taiwan currency, although the impact was partially offset by exporters, who sought Taiwan dollars to meet their cash needs. The central bank also moved to keep the currency strong.   

 Volume on the  Taipei Forex Inc. was $1.282 billion at closing, less than the $1.704 billion at the same time on Monday.   

 On the smaller Cosmos exchange <COSMOS1> the Taiwan dollar closed at T$32.402, down from T$32.385 on Monday.       
   RFMARKETS-TAIWAN/CURRENCY (UPDATE 2)|LANGEN|ABN|M|Z|ABX|DNP   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News   REasiaz : Asia | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | taiwan : Taiwan | usa : United States | chinaz : Greater China | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America   IPCFRX | TWD/ | EMBG:TWD/ | embargokeyE2E2E2   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020071102e3au0002v  



 HDREFILE-Taiwan dollar nearly flat on US rate outlook, stocks      WC400 words   PD30 October 2007   ET02:53   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007 Reuters Limited   
   LP(Fixes wording in headline, dropped word in 6th paragraph) (Updates to close)   

TAIPEI, Oct 30 (Reuters) - The Taiwan dollar closed nearly flat on Tuesday as the impact from falling stocks offset guarded anticipation of a U.S. interest rate cut this week.   
   TDTaiwan's currency <TWD=TP> closed at T$32.410 to the U.S. dollar compared with Monday's close of T$32.415 after reaching an intraday peak of T$32.335.   

A U.S. interest rate cut would narrow the difference between U.S. and Taiwan rates, bolstering the local currency's appeal.   

Uncertainty ahead of the Fed's decision held back the local currency, but few traders in Taiwan are worried, dealers said.   

"Mainly that's because the Taiwan currency market isn't the same as markets internationally, as the central bank can step in," a dealer said. "So traders are optimistic."   

The U.S. dollar edged up from record lows against the euro and a basket of major currencies on Tuesday, but it remained under pressure from expectations that the Federal Reserve will lower interest rates when its two-day meeting ends on Wednesday and possibly again later this year.   

The euro fell 0.1 percent to $1.4404 <EUR=>, off a record peak of $1.4439 hit on trading platform EBS on Monday, the highest since its launch in 1999.   

The Fed is expected to cut rates by a quarter point to 4.5 percent on Wednesday to prevent the U.S. economy from sustaining broader damage from deterioration in the housing sector.   

Taiwan stocks <.TWII>, which closed 0.53 lower on Tuesday after hitting a 7-year high a day earlier, also weighed on the local currency.   

Oil importers were active on Tuesday, buying U.S. dollars and pressuring the Taiwan currency, although the impact was partially offset by exporters, who sought Taiwan dollars to meet their cash needs. The central bank also moved to keep the currency strong.   

Volume on the  Taipei Forex Inc. was $1.282 billion at closing, less than the $1.704 billion at the same time on Monday.   

On the smaller Cosmos exchange <COSMOS1> the Taiwan dollar closed at T$32.402, down from T$32.385 on Monday.   
   RFMARKETS-TAIWAN/CURRENCY (UPDATE 2, REFILE)|LANGEN|ABN|M|Z|RBN|RNP|DNP|PTD|PMF   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News   REasiaz : Asia | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | taiwan : Taiwan | usa : United States | chinaz : Greater China | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America   IPCFRX | TWD/ | EMBG:TWD/ | embargokeyE2E2E2E2   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020071102e3au0002w  



 HDRPT-Taiwan dollar strengthens on inflows, U.S. outlook      WC203 words   PD30 October 2007   ET03:11   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007 Reuters Limited   
   LP  (Repeats without change to text)   

 TAIPEI, Oct 30 (Reuters) - The Taiwan dollar strengthened again on Tuesday on foreign fund inflows and continued expectations of a U.S. interest rate cut this week.   
   TD Taiwan's currency <.TWD=TP> opened at T$32.345 to the U.S. dollar compared with Monday's close of T$32.415. It stood at T$32.395 as of 0208 GMT.   

 Dealers in Taipei said investors were trading cautiously ahead of a widely expected U.S. interest rate cut.  "Today we still have to look at what the United States is going to do," one dealer said. "The trend in Taiwan could reverse course."   

 Volume on the Taipei Forex Inc. was an active $97 million as of 0130 GMT, more than the $82 million at the same time on Monday.  The U.S. dollar had edged up on Tuesday after hitting a record low on Monday against a basket of major currencies, on expectations the U.S. Federal Reserve will cut interest rates this week and possibly again later this year.   

 (Additional reporting by Argin Chang)       
   RFMARKETS-TAIWAN/CURRENCY (REPEAT)|LANGEN|ABN|M|Z|ABX|DNP   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REtaiwan : Taiwan | usa : United States | chinaz : Greater China | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America | asiaz : Asia | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries   IPCFRX | TWD/ | EMBG:TWD/ | embargokeyE2   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020071102e3au0003e  



 HDUS TREASURY OUTLOOK-Data drumbeat continues after rate cut      BYBy Ellen Freilich      WC745 words   PD31 October 2007   ET22:26   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007 Reuters Limited   
   LPNEW YORK, Oct 31 (Reuters) - The economic data drumbeat continues on Thursday after the Federal Reserve's latest interest-rate cut and with the Fed sounding flexible on future rate changes, truly fresh data will intrigue investors.   

The performance of the stock market is also likely to influence bond prices on Thursday, analysts said.   
   TDThe Fed cut U.S. interest rates on Wednesday, asserting that the risk of inflation was roughly equal to downside risks to growth. The statement that accompanied the rate cut suggested that further rate cuts were not a certainty and would be influenced by whether or not the economy could produce "moderate growth" on a path safe from recession.   

"The Fed's statement was designed to give the FOMC maximum flexibility, either to ease further, or take back recent steps, or keep policy unchanged," said  Daiwa Securities America chief economist Michael Moran.   

"It emphasized that the Fed is watching both the outlook for economic growth and inflation. It recognized the risk of the economy slowing down, but also talked about the risk that inflation could pick up," he added.   

The decision by the Fed's Federal Open Market Committee to cut the overnight federal funds rate by a quarter-percentage point to 4.5 percent was widely expected by the bond market.   

Fed officials had said that they expected the housing slump and the after-effects of tighter credit to weigh on the economy into next year. Slipping consumer confidence and tumbling home sales had also recently raised fears the economy might be weaker in coming quarters than the Fed had anticipated.   

One new clue to the economy's health will arrive with the Insitute for Supply Management (ISM) manufacturing index. Due at 10 a.m. EDT (1400 GMT) on Thursday, the ISM index will likely be the report of most interest to bond investors during the trading session because on Wednesday, the Chicago Purchasing Managers reported that its index (PMI) of regional manufacturing dipped below 50, a sign of contraction.   

Bond investors want to know if that slip below 50 foreshadowed a nationwide reduction in manufacturing during October. With housing weakening and credit conditions choppy, a downturn in manufacturing, which has been bolstered by the weak dollar, would create more concern about the economic outlook.   

Economists polled by Reuters offered a median estimate of 51.5 for the October ISM index, compared with 52.0 in September.   

JOBLESS CLAIMS, PERSONAL INCOME AND SPENDING   


 Two reports due earlier in the trading session -- jobless
claims and personal income and spending data -- should have
   

minimal impact on bond prices.   

The Labor Department's jobless claims numbers due early in the session are expected to show that new jobless claims remained fairly steady at 330,000 in the week ended Saturday, little changed from 331,000 new claims a week earlier.   

Investors have an eye on the labor market because a resilient job market supports consumer demand when it is under pressure from rising oil prices and weakening home values.   

But a much broader and more detailed view of the labor market will be revealed on Friday when the government releases its monthly employment data, this time for October.   

September personal income, spending, and inflation numbers, also due at 8:30 a.m. EDT, will offer more specific data on the state of the economy at the end of the third quarter. But these data ought to have little market impact since the third-quarter core personal consumption expenditure (PCE) price index, which included September, was released on Wednesday.   

STOCKS, STOCKS AND MORE STOCKS   

While bond investors absorb these economic data, they will also be minding the stock market, where the ebb and flow mirrors investors' varying appetite for risk. An increased tolerance for investment risk boosts stocks, but depletes demand for less risky U.S. government debt.   

If stock investors take some profits on Thursday, bond prices would benefit and their yields, which move in the opposite direction of prices, could ease. If stocks extend Wednesday's gains, bond prices could lose more ground.   

U.S. stocks rallied on Wednesday, buoyed in part by the Fed's interest-rate cut. Benchmark 10-year notes <US10YT=RR> traded 22/32 lower in price for a yield of 4.475 percent from 4.39 percent late on Tuesday.   
   RFMARKETS-BONDS-OUTLOOK|LANGEN|Table|ABN|E|RBN|U|D|M|MNI   NSe1101 : Economic Growth | e1122 : Mortgage Applications/Refinancing | e1202 : Interest Rates | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m131 : Money Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCMMT | DBT | GVD | AGN | MTG | STIR | MCE | MUNI | US/O | EMBG:DBT | embargokeyE1   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020071103e3av003el  



 HDTREASURIES-Bonds leap in safety bid as stocks plummet      BYBy Chris Reese      WC593 words   PD1 November 2007   ET14:17   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007 Reuters Limited   
   LP(Updates prices)   

NEW YORK, Nov 1 (Reuters) - U.S. Treasuries prices leaped on Thursday as steep stock market losses and a resurgence in credit worries spurred demand for safe-haven investments a day after the Federal Reserve lowered interest rates.   
   TDGovernment data showing tame core inflation and weaker consumer spending, together with a private-sector report of slower manufacturing growth, also cut risk appetite and boosted expectations the Fed will lower rates at its December meeting. For details, see [ID:nN01406094]   

"It is all concerns about the implosions in the credit markets and that we are only seeing the beginning of it -- that it is going to hurt the economy and most likely force the Fed's hand again to ease," said Mary Ann Hurley, vice president of fixed income trading at  D.A. Davidson & Co. in Seattle.   

"Also the economic data today was really mixed at best for the economy," she said.   

U.S. benchmark 10-year Treasury notes <US10YT=RR> traded 30/32 higher in price for a yield of 4.36 percent from 4.47 percent late on Wednesday. Benchmark yields, which move inversely to prices, posted their biggest single-day dip in nearly eight weeks.   

"The risk-aversion trade is to be long Treasuries," said Brian Edmonds, head of rates trading with  Cantor Fitzgerald in New York.   

At the shorter end of the curve, two-year notes <US2YT=RR> traded 11/32 higher in price for a yield of 3.78 percent, from 3.95 percent. The two-year note took back more than Wednesday's price gains, when traders trimmed bets for future interest rate cuts after the Fed's policy statement raised doubts about tighter monetary policy.   

However, worries resurfaced in a big way on Thursday that further deterioration in the financial sector stemming from the housing slump and credit turmoil would hurt economic growth and pressure the Fed to lower rates in coming months.   

Short-term interest rate futures on Thursday afternoon implied a 64 percent chance the Fed will lower rates by 25 basis points again in December, to 4.25 percent, against 42 percent on Wednesday afternoon.   

The rate cut expectations were boosted after  Credit Suisse on Thursday reported a $1.9 billion write-down on bad loans and mortgage investments, and brokerage downgrades of  Citigroup raised concerns as to whether the biggest U.S. bank is under-capitalized.   

Citigroup shares ended down nearly 7 percent and the decline in financial stocks weighed on the broader equities market. The Dow Jones industrial average <.DJI> tumbled 2.6 percent. For the full market report, see [.N]   

Early in the session, data showing a slowdown in factory growth in October suggested the U.S. economy was cooling from its surprisingly robust third-quarter pace, even as data showed U.S. incomes edged higher in September while underlying consumer prices rose modestly.   

Data also showed the number of U.S. workers filing new claims for jobless aid fell more than expected last week, but the four-week moving average of claims edged up to a six-month high.   

Five-year notes <US5YT=RR> traded 21/32 higher for a yield of 4.03 percent from 4.18 percent, while the 30-year bond <US30YT=RR> traded 1-23/32 higher in price for a yield of 4.64 percent. (Additional reporting by Richard Leong)   
   RFMARKETS-BONDS (UPDATE 12)|LANGEN|ABN|E|RBN|U|D|M|MNI|J|UKI|AUF|RNP|DNP   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | m131 : Money Markets | ntop : Dow Jones/Reuters Top Wire News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCDBT | GVD | MUNI | INT | MCE | STIR | MMT | NEWS | SWP/ | US/ | US/N | XXSNPT   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020071101e3b1001si  



 HDUS TREASURY OUTLOOK-Data to stir market before Fed decision      BYBy Ellen Freilich      WC607 words   PD30 October 2007   ET21:06   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007 Reuters Limited   
   LPNEW YORK, Oct 30 (Reuters) - A number of important economic reports could impact U.S. government securities prices on Wednesday as investors wait for the Federal Reserve to make its afternoon interest-rate announcement.   

Financial markets largely expect the Fed to cut benchmark rates by 25 basis points on Wednesday, a follow-up to the U.S. central bank's 50-basis-point rate cut in September.   
   TD"Monetary policy works with a lag of six to nine months and almost everyone is forecasting a really sluggish, weak economy for the first half of next year," said Bill Hampel, chief economist for the Credit Union National Association, predicting that the Fed would cut its federal funds rate by 25 basis points to bolster "a below-trend, borderline recession economy in the first half of 2008."   

But before that afternoon announcement, about which there is still some suspense, the market will get a number of substantive economic reports that could stir Treasury prices even as investors wait to hear from the Fed.   

Some analysts said the imminent rate announcement could constrain the market's reactions to these reports.   

Others said reaction to the fresh economic data could be somewhat magnified by the realization that the Fed will be incorporating these latest data -- including third-quarter GDP, inflation and employment costs, September construction spending and October regional manufacturing -- into its rate decision.   

"These may be the final inputs into the Fed's ultimate decision on interest rates and given that they will be closely scrutinized, they could impact the tempo of trading going into the Fed's decision in the afternoon," said William Sullivan, chief economist at JVB Financial Group in Boca Raton, Florida.   

Among the most closely watched economic data on Wednesday before the Fed's rate announcement will be the government's first estimate of third-quarter gross domestic product growth, expected to show GDP grew an annualized 3 percent last quarter, with core personal consumption expenditure prices, the Fed's favored inflation gauge, rising at a 1.5 percent rate, safely in the Fed's presumed "comfort zone" of 1 to 2 percent.   

The October Chicago PMI -- expected to read 53.0, down from 54.2 in September -- will be watched for hints about the state of manufacturing at the start of the fourth quarter and to get a sense of what the nationwide ISM manufacturing index might look like when it is released on Thursday.   

The ADP employment report on private sector employment growth in October will get attention as traders try to get a better fix on what the Labor Department's monthly employment data will reveal when it is released on Friday.   

September construction spending, due at 10 a.m. (1400 GMT), the same time as the Chicago purchasing managers report, is estimated to have fallen 0.5 percent after a 0.2 percent increase in August.   

The Treasury's quarterly refunding announcement, scheduled for 9 a.m. (1300 GMT), is expected to be a 'nonevent' with so much economic data being released and the Fed about to make an interest-rate announcement, analysts said.   

"Trading could be a little more volatile on Wednesday (than it would normally be on the day of a Fed rate decision), but reactions to economic reports will be quick," said John Canavan, analyst at Stone and McCarthy Research Associates in Princeton, New Jersey. "Then it will settle in again until the Fed announcement. It will be tough to find much momentum."   
   RFMARKETS-BONDS-OUTLOOK|LANGEN|ABN|M|D|E|RBN|U|MNI   NSe1122 : Mortgage Applications/Refinancing | e1202 : Interest Rates | m131 : Money Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCMMT | DBT | GVD | AGN | MTG | STIR | MCE | MUNI | US/O | EMBG:DBT | embargokeyE1   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020071102e3au002a3  



 HDHong Kong lowers  interest rate  quarter point in wake of US  Federal Reserve 's cut      WC475 words   PD1 November 2007   ET11:26   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPHONG KONG (AP) - The Hong Kong Monetary Authority -- the Chinese territory's de facto central bank -- cut its base lending rate to 6 percent from 6.25 percent on Thursday after the U.S. Federal Reserve's quarter-point cut overnight.   

Banks in Hong Kong quickly followed by announcing cuts themselves, offering some relief to borrowers but dealing a blow to savers.   
   TDBank of China Hong Kong,  Hong Kong & Shanghai Banking Corp. and Hang Seng bank all said they would lower their prime lending rates to 7.25 percent from 7.50 percent, effective Friday. Standard Chartered cut its prime rate to 7.50 percent from 7.75.   

The HKMA's move was widely expected as the former British territory's monetary policy tracks closely that of the U.S. because of its 24-year-old peg to the U.S. dollar.   

The monetary authority has pledged to keep its base rate -- the reference rate for the lending of overnight funds to local banks through its discount window -- fixed at least 1.5 percentage points above the federal funds rate.   

The Fed on Wednesday cut its target for the federal funds rate to 4.5 percent from 4.75 percent. It last cut rates in September, a move that the HKMA also matched.   

Banks in Hong Kong are not required to follow the monetary authority's move, but usually do. Earlier this week, some banks had suggested they may not match the rate cut because of a high interbank rate -- the rate at which banks lend money to one another.   

Driving up the interbank rate has been an insatiable demand for Hong Kong dollars. Foreign and local funds are buying into Hong Kong's red-hot stock market in anticipation that Beijing will soon allow mainland Chinese to invest in Hong Kong.   

The demand has also pushed up the strength of the local currency, prompting the Hong Kong Monetary Authority to step in and buy U.S. dollars in a bid to keep the Hong Kong dollar within its narrow trading band.   

On Wednesday, the authority intervened five times, selling a total of HK$7.828 billion (US$1 billion; 690 million) to defend the local currency's peg to the U.S. dollar.   

HKMA Chief Executive Joseph Yam said the local dollar's strength against the greenback was partly driven by speculation, but the city's government was committed to maintaining the peg.   

"The linked exchange rate system has been functioning well to deliver exchange-rate stability," Yam said Thursday in his weekly column on the HKMA Web site.   

"There is no plan or intention to change the system in any way (such as re-pegging at a different level or widening" the trading band, he said.   
   RF7   COhksbc : HSBC Holdings PLC   INi814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | ecat : Economic News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REchina : China | hkong : Hong Kong | usa : United States | asiaz : Asia | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America   IPCtagapf | selapfin | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | APFN AS FIN Hong Kong Rate Cut | D8SKQKF01   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020071101e3b100236  



 HDHong Kong lowers  interest rate  quarter point in wake of US  Federal Reserve 's cut      WC475 words   PD1 November 2007   ET11:25   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPHONG KONG (AP) - The Hong Kong Monetary Authority -- the Chinese territory's de facto central bank -- cut its base lending rate to 6 percent from 6.25 percent on Thursday after the U.S. Federal Reserve's quarter-point cut overnight.   

Banks in Hong Kong quickly followed by announcing cuts themselves, offering some relief to borrowers but dealing a blow to savers.   
   TDBank of China Hong Kong,  Hong Kong & Shanghai Banking Corp. and Hang Seng bank all said they would lower their prime lending rates to 7.25 percent from 7.50 percent, effective Friday. Standard Chartered cut its prime rate to 7.50 percent from 7.75.   

The HKMA's move was widely expected as the former British territory's monetary policy tracks closely that of the U.S. because of its 24-year-old peg to the U.S. dollar.   

The monetary authority has pledged to keep its base rate -- the reference rate for the lending of overnight funds to local banks through its discount window -- fixed at least 1.5 percentage points above the federal funds rate.   

The Fed on Wednesday cut its target for the federal funds rate to 4.5 percent from 4.75 percent. It last cut rates in September, a move that the HKMA also matched.   

Banks in Hong Kong are not required to follow the monetary authority's move, but usually do. Earlier this week, some banks had suggested they may not match the rate cut because of a high interbank rate -- the rate at which banks lend money to one another.   

Driving up the interbank rate has been an insatiable demand for Hong Kong dollars. Foreign and local funds are buying into Hong Kong's red-hot stock market in anticipation that Beijing will soon allow mainland Chinese to invest in Hong Kong.   

The demand has also pushed up the strength of the local currency, prompting the Hong Kong Monetary Authority to step in and buy U.S. dollars in a bid to keep the Hong Kong dollar within its narrow trading band.   

On Wednesday, the authority intervened five times, selling a total of HK$7.828 billion (US$1 billion; euro690 million) to defend the local currency's peg to the U.S. dollar.   

HKMA Chief Executive Joseph Yam said the local dollar's strength against the greenback was partly driven by speculation, but the city's government was committed to maintaining the peg.   

"The linked exchange rate system has been functioning well to deliver exchange-rate stability," Yam said Thursday in his weekly column on the HKMA Web site.   

"There is no plan or intention to change the system in any way (such as re-pegging at a different level or widening" the trading band, he said.   
   RF7   COhksbc : HSBC Holdings PLC   INi814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | ecat : Economic News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REchina : China | hkong : Hong Kong | usa : United States | asiaz : Asia | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America   IPCtagpf1wcat | sel----- | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | AS FIN Hong Kong Rate Cut | D8SKQKAG2   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020071101e3b100237  



 HDEnergy, metals and agricultural futures fall ahead of  Federal Reserve interest rate  decision      BYBy LAUREN VILLAGRAN      CRAP Business Writer   WC647 words   PD30 October 2007   ET20:31   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPNEW YORK (AP) - Commodities prices declined Tuesday as uncertainty about the Federal Reserve's upcoming decision on current interest rates and future policy left investors jittery.   

Oil prices retreated sharply from a record just shy of $94 a barrel on Monday, while gold, silver and industrial metals prices declined. Agricultural futures also fell back.   
   TDThe Fed's decision about key interest rates, and any indication it gives about the direction of monetary policy, has bearing on the strength of the U.S. dollar and, indirectly, on commodities prices. A rate cut -- which investors widely expect -- could further undermine the greenback, boosting commodities prices by drawing more investors into the markets for energy and metals as a hedge against the currency's decline.   

The central bank's move is expected at the conclusion of its two-day meeting on Wednesday.   

Although a poorly performing housing market, strained credit conditions and sluggishness in other areas of the economy have bolstered the case for lower interest rates, record oil prices and high raw materials costs have sparked concerns about inflation -- which could hold the Fed back from a rate cut.   

Investors are also waiting for Wednesday's initial estimate of third-quarter GDP and construction spending for September, both reports due from the Commerce Department.   

Crude oil tumbled $3.15 to settle at $90.13 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Gold dipped $4.80 to settle at $787.80 an ounce on the Nymex, while silver shed 10.2 cents to $14.328 an ounce.   

November gasoline futures fell 7.03 cents to settle at $2.2571 a gallon, and November heating oil slid 4 cents to settle at $2.4246 a gallon.   

The dollar gave up ground to the euro and traded mixed against other major currencies on Tuesday; it's fallen more than 9 percent against the euro this year alone.   

Dollar bears may be getting nervous ahead of the Fed decision on interest rates, said  MF Global analyst Edward Meir, in a report. Should a cut be paired with a tougher policy statement, the dollar could jump. If the markets get no rate cut at all, that "would be a severe jolt to all the markets, and result in heavy dollar buying, which inevitably would pressure commodities even further," he wrote.   

Rising stockpiles of base metals held by the London Metal Exchange, and uncertainty about interest rates, combined to pressure prices of copper, aluminum, zinc and other metals.   

More bad housing news also hurt the metals market. The S&P/Case-Shiller index on Tuesday showed U.S. home prices slid for the eighth straight month in August. An index of prices in 10 metropolitan areas declined 5 percent in August from a year ago, the biggest drop since 1991.   

On the Nymex, copper for December delivery slipped 3.95 cents to close at $3.4815 a pound.   

Energy prices mostly weakened ahead of the Energy Information Administration's report on petroleum inventories, due Wednesday. Analysts polled by Dow Jones Newswires forecast a modest increase in crude oil inventories of 100,000 barrels, on average, and declines of both gasoline and distillates. However, last week's report took the market by surprise with a huge, 5.3 million-barrel draw on crude stockpiles, propelling oil prices over $90 a barrel.   

Gasoline for November delivery fell 7.03 cents to settle at $2.2571 a gallon, while heating oil dipped 4 cents to $2.4246 a bushel.   

Agricultural futures declined on the Chicago Board of Trade. December wheat dropped 14.5 cents to settle at $8.14 a bushel. December corn fell 5.75 cents to $3.7025 a bushel, while soybeans for January delivery fell 19.5 cents to $10.0925 a bushel.   
   RF5   INi13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1 : Energy   NSm14 : Commodity Markets | m143 : Energy Markets | m15 : Derivative Securities | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mcroil : Crude Oil Markets | e1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagapf | selapfin | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | APFN Commodities Review | D8SJOE8G0   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020071030e3au003uk  



 HDFed Pumps $41B Into US Financial System      BYBy JEANNINE AVERSA      CRAP Economics Writer   WC364 words   PD1 November 2007   ET22:15   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPWASHINGTON (AP) - The Federal Reserve pumped $41 billion into the U.S. financial system Thursday, the largest cash infusion since September 2001, to help companies get through a credit crunch.   

The action came one day after Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke and all but one of his central bank colleagues voted to slice a key interest rate. It was the second time in six weeks that policymakers acted to protect the economy from the effects of the housing downturn and credit troubles.   
   TDWall Street took a nosedive with the Dow Jones industrials losing 362.14 points to close at 13,567.87.   

The Fed on Wednesday ordered its key rate, called the federal funds rate, to be lowered by one-quarter of a percentage point to 4.5 percent. That followed up on a half-percentage point cut in September. Those two rate reductions might be sufficient to help the economy make its way safely through trouble spots, Fed policymakers indicated.   

The funds rate affects many other interest rates charged to millions of individuals and businesses and is the Fed's most potent tool for influencing economic activity.   

The  Federal Reserve Bank of New York, which carries out the central bank's open market operations, moved Thursday to inject $41 billion in temporary reserves into the financial system.   

A New York Fed spokesman said it was the largest single day of operations since $50.35 billion was pumped into the system on Sept. 19, 2001, following the terrorist attacks on New York and Washington. He declined further comment.   

Fed policymakers at their meeting on Wednesday noted that the "strains from financial markets have eased somewhat on balance." In the past week, many Fed officials have described the state of financial markets as fragile.   

Bernanke and other Fed officials have said it will take time for the markets to fully recover from the credit crisis.   

Since August, the Fed has been pumping cash into the financial system to help ease strains from the credit crunch. It also has cut its lending rate to banks -- a third such cut came on Wednesday.   
   RF7   ARTimage      NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagpf1apon | sel----- | catf | 1310   IPDFinancial/Business | Fed Markets | D8SL45180   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020071101e3b1003k5  



 HDFed injects $41 billion into US financial system to help ease credit problems      BYBy JEANNINE AVERSA      CRAP Economics Writer   WC369 words   PD1 November 2007   ET22:12   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPWASHINGTON (AP) - The Federal Reserve pumped $41 billion into the U.S. financial system Thursday, the largest cash infusion since September 2001, to help companies get through a credit crunch.   

The action came one day after Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke and all but one of his central bank colleagues voted to slice a key interest rate. It was the second time in six weeks that policymakers acted to protect the economy from the effects of the housing downturn and credit troubles.   
   TDWall Street took a nosedive with the Dow Jones industrials losing 362.14 points to close at 13,567.87.   

The Fed on Wednesday ordered its key rate, called the federal funds rate, to be lowered by one-quarter of a percentage point to 4.5 percent. That followed up on a half-percentage point cut in September. Those two rate reductions might be sufficient to help the economy make its way safely through trouble spots, Fed policymakers indicated.   

The funds rate affects many other interest rates charged to millions of individuals and businesses and is the Fed's most potent tool for influencing economic activity.   

The  Federal Reserve Bank of New York, which carries out the central bank's open market operations, moved Thursday to inject $41 billion in temporary reserves into the financial system.   

A New York Fed spokesman said it was the largest single day of operations since $50.35 billion was pumped into the system on Sept. 19, 2001, following the terrorist attacks on New York and Washington. He declined further comment.   

Fed policymakers at their meeting on Wednesday noted that the "strains from financial markets have eased somewhat on balance." In the past week, many Fed officials have described the state of financial markets as fragile.   

Bernanke and other Fed officials have said it will take time for the markets to fully recover from the credit crisis.   

Since August, the Fed has been pumping cash into the financial system to help ease strains from the credit crunch. It also has cut its lending rate to banks -- a third such cut came on Wednesday.   
   RF7   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagapf | selapfin | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | APFN Fed Markets | D8SL43H00   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020071101e3b1003k6  



 HDAustralian dollar hits 23-year high against US dollar      WC118 words   PD1 November 2007   ET00:45   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPSYDNEY, Australia (AP) - The Australian dollar hit a 23-year high against the U.S. dollar Thursday after the Federal Reserve lowered a key interest rate by a quarter percentage point to 4.5 percent.   

The Australian dollar opened trade at US$0.9312, its highest rate since April 4, 1984. Analysts expect the currency could top US$0.94 if the Reserve Bank of Australia lifts interest rates next week.   
   TDEconomists have widely predicted the central bank will lift a key interest rate by a quarter of a percentage point to 6.75 percent to contain inflationary pressures in the economy.   

The announcement is expected Nov. 7.   
   RF7   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REaustr : Australia | usa : United States | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | namz : North America   IPCtagapf | selapfin | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | APFN AS FIN Australia Dollar | D8SKH88G3   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020071031e3av0046t  



 HDGrocer shares drop on fears that Fed will end its rate cuts, slowing economy      WC227 words   PD1 November 2007   ET21:08   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPNEW YORK (AP) - Grocer shares dropped Thursday, led by a big decline in  Winn-Dixie Stores Inc., as investors feared an end to interest rate cuts amid a slowing economy.   

Stocks across the market dropped as the price of oil passed $96 per barrel for the first time overnight and a Commerce Department report indicated consumers didn't spend as much in September.   
   TDResponding to the slow economy, the Federal Reserve cut a key interest rate by a quarter point Wednesday. But the Fed also said that inflation remained a concern, signaling that it was unlikely to cut rates again.   

Winn-Dixie shares fell the hardest in the grocer sector even though the company reported a narrower first-quarter loss earlier in the week.   

Here is how some key grocer stocks did Thursday:   

Kroger Co. fell $1.19, or 4.1 percent, to $28.20.   

Safeway Inc. lost $1.13, 3.3 percent, to $32.87.   

Great Atlantic & Pacific Tea Co. Inc. declined $1.41, or 4.4 percent, to $30.96.   

Supervalu Inc. eased $1.19, or 3.1 percent, to $37.56.   

Winn-Dixie Stores Inc. tumbled $3.54, or 15 percent, to $20.10.   

Whole Foods Market Inc. retreated $2.33, or 4.7 percent, to $47.21.   
   RF7   COgapt : The Great Atlantic & Pacific Tea Company, Inc. | krogr : The Kroger Co | sfwfs : Safeway Inc | windxi : Winn-Dixie Stores Inc | tnglmn : Tengelmann Warenhandelsgesellschaft KG   INi41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i64 : Retail/Wholesale | i641 : Food Retailing | i6411 : Supermarkets/Grocery Stores | i654 : Specialty Stores | ifood : Food Products   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | m11 : Equity Markets | c1522 : Share Price Movement/Disruptions | c15 : Performance | c152 : Earnings Projections | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagapf | selapfin | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | APFN Sector Glance Grocers | D8SL358G0   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020071101e3b1004e5  



 HDUS Fed cuts key  interest rate  for a second time to guard against recession threats      BYBy MARTIN CRUTSINGER      CRAP Economics Writer   WC880 words   PD31 October 2007   ET20:45   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPWASHINGTON (AP) - The Federal Reserve, confronted by surging oil prices and a slumping housing market, cut a key interest rate by one-quarter of a percentage point Wednesday. But policymakers signaled that may be all the rate relief the U.S. economy needs right now.   

The central bank lowered the federal funds rate to 4.5 percent, as expected. While financial markets had hoped for a clear sign of further cuts, the central bank indicated that rates cuts in September and October may be enough to stave off the threats of a recession.   
   TDEconomists worry that growth will slow dramatically over the final three months of the year because of the housing slump, a credit crisis and record-high oil prices. The Fed, however, sounded a more upbeat tone.   

The Fed also cited continued worries about inflation and said it believed that after the two rate cuts, the risks between weak growth and higher inflation were roughly balanced.   

"The odds of another rate cut at the December meeting are substantially less than they were before this statement," said David Jones, chief economist at DMJ Advisors in Denver. Jones said he still expected one more rate cut to deal with a weak economy, but it probably would come at the Fed's January meeting.   

Commercial banks responded to the Fed's decision by announcing a quarter-point cut to 7.5 percent in their prime lending rate, the benchmark rate for millions of consumer and business loans.   

Wall Street sagged a bit immediately after the announcement, but quickly regained its footing and rose by more than 100 points in late afternoon trading.   

In a brief statement explaining its decision, Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke and his colleagues said they now judge that "the upside risks to inflation roughly balance the downside risks to growth."   

Stating that risks are now almost balanced was seen as a signal that the Fed believes further rate cuts may not be necessary.   

The Fed's decision came on a 9-1 vote. Thomas Hoenig, president of the Kansas City regional Fed bank, dissented and preferred no change.   

The Fed had lowered the funds rate by one-half of a percentage point at its Sept. 18 meeting.   

Commenting on the economy, the Fed was more positive than last month, when it expressed concerns about the toll the credit crisis would take on housing and the overall economy.   

"Economic growth was solid in the third quarter and strains in financial markets have eased somewhat on balance," according to the Fed statement.   

The central bank said the pace of the economic expansion "will likely slow in the near term, partly reflecting the intensification of the housing correction."   

The Fed met on the same day the government announced that the overall economy grew at a stronger-than-expected 3.9 percent rate from July through September.   

Many economists believe growth will dip to around 2 percent from October through December and may slow even further, to about 1 percent, in the first three months of 2008.   

The Fed said the reading on core inflation, which excludes energy and food, had "improved modestly this year." But the central bank worried about what the recent increases in energy prices and other commodities might do to inflationary pressures.   

The committee said "some inflation risks remain," a signal it will be hesitant to cut rates further because of concerns on inflation.   

The Fed had pushed the federal funds rate up a record 17 consecutive times in quarter-point moves over two years. The last increase was in June 2006.   

From that time until last month, the rate did not change. The Fed watched to see whether its credit tightening had the desired effect of slowing the economy enough to lessen inflationary pressures.   

But the worst housing downturn in more than two decades has threatened the Fed's goal of slowing growth and containing inflation.   

Economists worry that the credit crisis this summer will make home sales and prices fall even more, undermining consumer confidence and causing consumers to cut back on spending.   

Bernanke, who took over as Fed chairman in February 2006 from Alan Greenspan, came under criticism in August when the Fed left rates unchanged and said inflation was the primary economic threat.   

But two days after that meeting, when a severe credit crunch hit world financial markets, the Fed provided billions of dollars in cash to the U.S. financial system and cut the rate at which it makes direct loans to banks. Then, on Sept. 18, the Fed reduced the funds rate by one-half of a percentage point, which was more than expected.   

Lyle Gramley, a former Fed board member and now an economist with  Stanford Financial Group, put the chances of a recession at around 40 percent. He said the Fed's primary concern is what is happening in housing and how much of a spillover that will have on the overall economy.   

"It is possible that the housing industry will take us over the edge into a recession," he said. Gramley noted that every housing downturn of the past 60 years, except for two, have triggered recessions.   
   RF7   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | e1101 : Economic Growth | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPCtagpf1wcat | sel----- | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | NA FIN US Fed Interest Rates | D8SKDNRO1   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020071031e3av0008u  



 HDWall Street plunges on fears that  interest rate  cuts will end even as economy is weakening      BYBy JOE BEL BRUNO      CRAP Business Writer   WC1,013 words   PD1 November 2007   ET22:44   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPNEW YORK (AP) - Wall Street plunged Thursday, pulling the Dow Jones industrial average down more than 360 points as investors found themselves confronted by two uncomfortable prospects: an end to interest rate cuts and a slowing economy.   

Mindful of a warning from the Federal Reserve Wednesday about inflation, the market nervously watched the price of oil, which passed $96 a barrel overnight for the first time before dipping on profit-taking. The Fed, which cut interest rates a quarter point, said in a statement that inflation remained a concern, and oil's ascent to another record raised the possibility not only that the Fed might stop cutting rates, but that it might even consider raising them if inflation accelerates.   
   TDMeanwhile, Wall Street also had to contend with concerns about a slowing economy. A report from the Commerce Department indicated consumers scaled back their spending in September as worries mounted about a worsening housing market and further credit market turmoil. And a trade group reported that manufacturing in the U.S. grew in October at the weakest pace since March.   

The combination of factors led investors to pull back sharply from Wednesday's rally, in which the Dow climbed 137 points after the Fed said the economy had weathered the summer's credit crisis.   

"Wall Street is in love with the idea of a rate cut, and realized that the Fed said inflation is still a concern -- that lowered the chances of a cut in December," said Ryan Detrick, a senior technical strategist with Schaeffer's Investment Research. "We're now feeling the pain now that investors have slept on it, and figured out what they said."   

Christopher Cordaro, chief investment officer at RegentAtlantic Capital, said Wall Street remains anxious about the possibility of recession. He also believes the market is devoid of enough positive news "to have any type of sustained rally."   

Investors were unswayed when the Fed pumped $41 billion into the U.S. financial system, one of its largest cash infusions since the credit crisis began in the summer. This increases the amount of money banks have to lend, and helps improve liquidity. In the past, such an action helped soothe the market, but that was not the case Thursday.   

With the market growing pessimistic about the economy, the Labor Department's report on October jobs creation, scheduled to be released Friday morning, will be taking on even more importance than it usually has. The data is expected to show unemployment remained steady in October, with payroll growth of 85,000 new jobs, compared with 110,000 in September.   

The Dow fell 362.14, or 2.60 percent, to 13,567.87.   

The Standard & Poor's 500 index was off 40.94, or 2.64 percent, at 1,508.44, while the Nasdaq composite index dropped 64.29, or 2.25 percent, to 2,794.83.   

Big late-session moves became common on Wall Street during the summer. Investors remain hopeful that a down market will turn around, but tend to launch a late afternoon selloff if that doesn't happen.   

"We've been getting all these mixed signals, and this is just a confluence of bad news between the Fed, the financials, and this mixed earnings season," said Chris Johnson, president of Johnson Research Group.   

Financial stocks were pummeled after  Citigroup Inc. and  Bank of America Corp., the two biggest U.S. banks, were downgraded by CIBC World Markets on worries about the credit markets.   

Investors pulling money out of stocks turned to the safe haven of the Treasury market. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note dropped to 4.35 percent from 4.47 percent late Wednesday, and was unchanged in after-hours trading.   

Crude prices vaulted above $96 per barrel in overnight trading. A barrel of light sweet crude settled down $1.04 at $93.49 on the New York Mercantile Exchange.   

The Commerce Department's report that consumer spending rose by 0.3 percent in September, slightly lower than the 0.4 percent increase that analysts expected, raised concerns about a slowing economy.   

In addition, the performance of the manufacturing sector in October suggested that ongoing troubles in the housing and credit markets have seeped into the industrial sector. The Institute for Supply Management, a Tempe, Ariz.-based trade group, reported its manufacturing index registered 50.9, down from 52.0 in September and below expectations for 51.8. A reading above 50 indicates growth; below that spells contraction.   

Also Thursday, the Labor Department said the number of people filing for unemployment benefits declined by a larger-than-expected 6,000 last week to total 327,000.   

Wall Street was also troubled by the day's corporate news.  Exxon Mobil Corp., the world's largest publicly traded oil company, reported third-quarter profit fell 10 percent because of lower refining and chemical margins. Shares of the Dow component dropped $3.49, or 3.8 percent to $88.50.   

Bank of America, the No. 2 U.S. bank, dropped $2.57, or 5.3 percent, to $45.71. Citi, the nation's largest financial institution, dropped $2.85, or 6.9 percent to $38.51 -- its lowest level in four years.   

Declining issues outnumbered advancers by about 4 to 1 on the New York Stock Exchange, where consolidated volume came to 4.20 billion shares, compared to 3.84 billion shares on Wednesday.   

The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies was down 32.84, or 3.97 percent, at 795.18.   

The plunge in U.S. stocks caused European bourses to tumble. Britain's FTSE 100 was down 2.17 percent, Germany's DAX index fell 1.77 percent, and France's CAC-40 dropped 2.09 percent. Japan's Nikkei stock average, which closed before U.S. markets opened, rose 0.79 percent.   

------   

On the Net:   

New York Stock Exchange:   http://www.nyse.com  

Nasdaq Stock Market:   http://www.nasdaq.com  
   RF5   NSm11 : Equity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | e1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagapf | selapfin | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | APFN Wall Street | D8SL4IEG4   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020071101e3b10038x  



 HDWRAPUP 1-ECB warns of stagflation after prices spike      BYBy Henrique Almeida and Emma Davis      WC822 words   PD31 October 2007   ET18:49   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007 Reuters Limited   
   LP(Wraps ECB's Constancio, Quaden, Draghi, Weber, Bank of Spain and poll)   

LISBON/BRUSSELS, Oct 31 (Reuters) - Higher oil costs are putting Europe at risk of stagnant growth and rising prices, ECB Governing Council member Vitor Constancio said on Wednesday as euro zone inflation spiked to its highest since September 2005.   
   TDOther ECB officials also warned of slowing growth and inflation dangers, as the ECB tries to assess the impact of months of credit market turbulence and rising energy costs in the run-up to its Nov. 8 interest rate decision.   

But Belgian central bank chief Guy Quaden struck a relatively bullish note, saying the latest data supported a favourable growth outlook and that the ECB would be ready to counter inflation pressure as soon as market turmoil fades.   

Markets are trying to guess whether the ECB's tightening cycle, which took interest rates to the current 4.0 percent from 2.0 percent in 2005, has ended as the euro zone economy slows amid more expensive credit, oil and the euro currency.   

Economists polled by Reuters this week expect rates to stay on hold through 2008 [ECB/INT], though the bigger-than-expected jump in euro zone inflation to 2.6 percent in October puts extra pressure on the ECB to raise rates to tame price growth.   

"Today's number is negative information, although partly explained by statistical effects," Constancio told reporters after testifying to the Portuguese parliament.   

"2.6 percent is a very high number. We will have to analyse it. There is no pre-commitment on monetary policy," he said.   

Earlier Constancio had told lawmakers of the baleful effects of higher oil prices, hours before North Sea crude hit a fresh high above $90 a barrel <LCOc1>.   

"The price of oil is another problem that could create stagflation conditions," he said.   

The pace of the U.S. economic slowdown and how fast the U.S. dollar moves against the euro <EUR=> are other important risk factors for the world and European economy, Constancio said.   

The dollar weakened to a record $1.4472 against the euro on Wednesday, as traders expected the U.S. Federal Reserve to cut interest rates. A stronger euro mutes the effect of higher oil prices, but also makes euro-zone exports more expensive abroad.   

"The ECB is clearly facing a massive juxtaposition on rates,"  Bear Stearns economist David Brown wrote to clients.   

"Rising euro zone inflation suggests the need for higher rates, while plummeting economic confidence highlights the need for lower rates ahead. This effectively leaves policy at an impasse."   

SHARED CONCERNS   

The Bank of Spain took a downbeat view on growth in its monthly report.   

"The slowdown in 2008 euro zone economic growth will probably be somewhat sharper than expected a few months ago," it said. "In the medium term, prospects for growth have moderated as a consequence of the change in the economic and financial environment."   

ECB staff projections published in September -- when euro zone market turbulence had only been under way for a few weeks -- forecast growth to slow slightly to 2.3 percent in 2008 from an estimated 2.5 percent in 2007. Inflation was seen at 2.0 percent, just above the ECB's target for price growth.   

Italian central bank governor Mario Draghi was also cautious, saying he expected the world economy to be hit by tighter bank lending standards after the U.S. subprime mortgage crisis, though the effect so far had been limited.   

Belgium's Quaden was more optimistic, though he accepted uncertainty had increased.   

"The latest news from Europe is not bad. 2006 was an excellent year and prospects for this year and next year remain positive," he said.   

He also said that the ECB was ready to act to tame inflation if money market turbulence faded and the economy grew as expected.   

"Downside risks are ... relevant both for the growth and the inflation outlook, as they have the potential to alleviate some of the expected upward pressure on prices of a cyclical nature embedded in the baseline scenario.   

"Conversely, should the financial turbulence fade away and the main scenario be confirmed, our monetary policy should be and would be ready to counter possible upside risks to price stability," he told a business dinner in Dubai.   

This echoed the view of Bundesbank President Axel Weber in an interview with the Wall Street Journal Europe.   

"Risks to price stability have increased," he said in remarks published on Wednesday. "We at this stage cannot exclude the option that ... this will warrant further action." (Additional reporting by Sergio Goncalves in Lisbon, Andrew Hay in Madrid, Paolo Biondi in Rome, Jan Strupczewski in Brussels, London and Bangalore polling teams and Andreas Framke, Paul Carrel and David Milliken in Frankfurt)   
   RFECB/ (WRAPUP 1)|LANGEN|ABN|M|E|RBN|D|ABX|BNX|FUN|RNP   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | e1202 : Interest Rates | e52 : Euro Zone/Currency | ecbnk : European Central Bank | m131 : Money Markets | ecat : Economic News | eec : European Union | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations   REeurz : Europe | gfr : Germany | italy : Italy | spain : Spain | usa : United States | weurz : Western Europe | eecz : European Union Countries | medz : Mediterranean | namz : North America   IPCECB | FED | CEN | MCE | PLCY | ECI | INT | STIR | MMT | DBT | BBK | FRX | EUR   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020071031e3av002c2  



 HDFed cuts key U.S.  interest rate  by 1/4 point      WC130 words   PD31 October 2007   ET19:15   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007 Reuters Limited   
   LPWASHINGTON, Oct 31 (Reuters) - The U.S. Federal Reserve cut the benchmark federal funds rate rate by a quarter-percentage point to 4.5 percent on Wednesday to buffer the economy against a housing downturn and tighter credit conditions.   

The decision by the central bank's Federal Open Market Committee was widely expected by financial markets. The U.S. central bank lowered rates by a more aggressive half-percentage point at a meeting last month in response to market turmoil and abruptly higher risks to economic growth.   
   RFUSA-FED/RATES (URGENT)|LANGEN|ABN|C|D|E|M|O|U|MTL|GRO|SOF|OIL|G|RBN|MNI|AFA|CSA|LBY|RWSA|RWS|REULB|GNS|ABX|BNX|RNP   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1122 : Mortgage Applications/Refinancing | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | e1202 : Interest Rates | gvexe : Executive Branch | ntop : Dow Jones/Reuters Top Wire News | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | ncat : Content Types   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCWASH | FED | CEN | MCE | NEWS | INT | STIR | PLCY | GVD | DBT | STX | FRX | MTG | ECI | EMBG:DBT | EMBG:PLCY | embargokeyE1R1:1   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020071031e3av002dr  



 HDUPDATE 2-PIMCO's Gross: Further Fed cuts needed for growth      WC279 words   PD31 October 2007   ET19:53   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007 Reuters Limited   
   LP(Adds comment on non-dollar assets)   

NEW YORK, Oct 31 (Reuters) - The Federal Reserve will have to cut its federal funds target rate to between 3 and 3.5 percent over about the next year to boost U.S. economic growth, Bill Gross, manager of the world's biggest bond fund, said on Wednesday.   
   TDGross, chief investment officer of  Pacific Investment Management Co., or PIMCO, spoke on CNBC Television shortly after the Federal Open Market Committee announced it cut its target overnight rate for lending among banks by 25 basis points to 4.50 percent.   

"Ultimately, over the next six to 12 months, what the Fed has to do, and what the Fed has done in prior cycles, is to move down to a 1 percent real (as opposed to nominal) interest rate in order to restimulate the economy," Gross said.   

"Three to 3.5 percent fed funds target is where they must go," said Gross.   

He expects the U.S. economy to grow between about 1 and 2 percent over the next 12 months, inflation to run at between 2 and 2.5 percent and the jobless rate to rise above 5 percent.   

In his November Investment Outlook letter released on Monday, Gross had said that fed funds would have to go down to 3.5 percent because of "an increasingly recessionary-looking U.S. economy."   

Asked what his best investment was right now, Gross said: "Any non-dollar asset".   
   RFUSA-MARKETS/PIMCO-GROSS (UPDATE 2)|LANGEN|ABX|BNX|ABN|M|D|E|RBN|U|MNI|C|GRO|MTL|SOF|J|Z|RNP|DNP   COpimc : Pacific Investment Management Co LLC | allanz : Allianz SE   INi831 : Financial Investments | iinv : Investing/Securities   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | e1202 : Interest Rates | gvexe : Executive Branch | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m131 : Money Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ntop : Dow Jones/Reuters Top Wire News | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCMCE | MUNI | DBT | NEWS | FED | CEN | WASH | PLCY | INT | MMT | STIR | GVD   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020071031e3av002fm  



 HDTREASURIES-Edge lower in Asia after Fed rate cut, data eyed      BYBy Chikako Mogi      WC560 words   PD1 November 2007   ET03:16   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007 Reuters Limited   
   LPTOKYO, Nov 1 (Reuters) - U.S. Treasuries edged lower in Asia on Thursday after the Federal Reserve lowered interest rates as expected overnight but suggested it may refrain from further easing if the economy holds up.   

Treasuries fell on Wednesday after the Fed cut the federal funds rate by a quarter percentage point to 4.5 percent, and said the move "should help forestall" any further deterioration in economic growth.   
   TDThe Fed said in a statement after the policy meeting that "the upside risks to inflation roughly balance the downside risks to growth," and that it will act as needed to foster price stability and sustainable economic growth.   

"The statement was slightly more hawkish than what the market had expected, suggesting that by emphasising both the upside and the downside risks, the Fed wants to avoid the market factoring in successive rate cuts," said a dealer at a Japanese trust bank.   

"The Fed wants the market to think the next policy action will depend on data and not market expectations."   

The dealer said investors may return to Treasuries, as many players remain wary of the credit market woes.   

A Reuters survey taken shortly after the Fed rate cut found that many primary dealers think the current easing cycle has ended or will end with one more quarter-point easing.   

Twelve of the 20 primary dealers polled expect the Fed to stand pat at its next policy meeting in December, compared with 10 out of 18 dealers in a previous poll. [FED/R]   

Short-term interest rate futures were implying around a 40 percent chance the Fed will lower rates by 25 basis points again in December, to 4.25 percent, down from roughly 60 percent before the Fed's rate cut on Wednesday.   

Benchmark 10-year yields <US10YT=RR> were at 4.484 percent, inching up from 4.467 percent in late U.S. trade on Wednesday.   

Two-year Treasury notes <US2YT=RR> yielded 3.967 percent, a tad above 3.941 percent in late U.S. trade on Wednesday, and off a two-year low near 3.70 percent hit last week.   

The spread between two- and 10-year yields stood at 52 basis points, narrowing from 57 basis points which was near its widest in 2- years.   

December T-note futures <TYv1> fell 4/32 to 109-28.5/32.   

Traders were waiting for manufacturing figures due later in the session, to be followed by Friday's monthly jobs data.   

The Institute for Supply Management releases its October manufacturing index at 1400 GMT, with economists expecting a reading of 51.5 against 52.0 in September.   

For Friday's jobs data, economists expect 80,000 jobs were added in October, down from September's 110,000 gain.   

The government's initial reading on third-quarter gross domestic product growth, released on Wednesday, was an annualised 3.9 percent, its strongest quarterly growth since the first quarter of 2006. For details see [ID:nN31336431].   

The ADP National Employment Report on Wednesday showed U.S. private employers added 106,000 jobs in October, raising the prospects that Friday's payrolls will be stronger than forecast.   
   RFMARKETS-TREASURIES-ASIA|LANGEN|RBN|ABN|M|J|D|NAT|AUF|E|U|MNI|RNP|DNP|PTD|PMF   NSe1101 : Economic Growth | e1202 : Interest Rates | m131 : Money Markets | ntop : Dow Jones/Reuters Top Wire News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REasiaz : Asia | jap : Japan | usa : United States | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America   IPCDBT | GVD | INT | MCE | MMT | NEWS | DRV | STIR | MUNI | US/T | US/   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020071101e3b10008f  



 HDUPDATE 3-Gulf moves to deter revaluation bets after Fed cut      BYBy Daliah Merzaban      WC781 words   PD1 November 2007   ET06:06   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007 Reuters Limited   
   LP(Updates with Qatar cuts, reserve requirement)   

DUBAI, Nov 1 (Reuters) - Saudi Arabia and other Gulf oil producers followed a U.S. interest rate cut by lowering some borrowing costs on Thursday to try to relieve pressure on their dollar-pegged currencies without stoking inflation at home.   
   TDThe Saudi riyal <SAR=> led a retreat among Gulf currencies after the rate cuts made bets on exchange-rate appreciation less attractive, and signals from the Federal Reserve diminished expectations for cheaper money in the United States.   

"If this does prove to be the end of the loosening cycle, that would be welcome by Gulf policymakers," said Simon Williams,  HSBC's regional economist in Dubai.   

"But rates are still low in nominal and real terms at a time when they should have been rising," he said.   

Most of the central bank moves reflected concerns about inflation, which is at decade highs across the Gulf, where economies are booming on a quadrupling of oil prices since 2002.   

Of the five central banks that changed rates on Thursday, only Bahrain matched Wednesday's quarter percentage point Fed easing with its benchmark rate.   

Kuwait kept its benchmark steady as did Saudi Arabia, which also tightened bank lending curbs. Qatar left its main policy signal unchanged and the United Arab Emirates reduced rates by as much as 20 basis points.   

"They are doing the minimum that they have to because of the pegs," said Marios Maratheftis, Standard Chartered's regional head of research.   

Most Gulf currencies eased and the Saudi riyal <SAR=> hit a three-week low after the central bank of the world's largest oil exporter cut its reverse repo rate by 25 basis points.   

The riyal had hit a 21-year high after the Saudi central bank opted to ignore the last Fed cut on Sept. 18, firing market speculation of an imminent revaluation.   

Since then the International Monetary Fund has urged Saudi Arabia and its neighbours make sure that interest rates were consistent with their policy of shackling currencies to the tumbling dollar in the run up to monetary union.   

Bids on the riyal fell as low as 3.7430 per dollar, its weakest since Oct. 8, after the Saudi rate cut. The central bank has officially kept the riyal stable at 3.75 to the dollar since June 1986, although on the market its latest 21-year peak was 3.7290 on Oct. 10.   

The Saudi central bank also raised the reserve requirement for banks to 9 percent from 7 percent, to prevent lower borrowing costs from increasing lending and fuelling inflation that hit a seven-year high of 4.4 percent in August.   

"This means that banks will have to keep more money in their vaults...," said John Sfakianakis, chief economist at SABB bank, one of the bankers who had seen the central bank statement.   

DILEMMA   

Saudi Arabia's dilemma mirrors that of central banks around the region, which could soon be under less pressure to choose between deterring currency appreciation and fighting inflation.   

A Reuters poll of primary dealers on Wednesday showed most expecting the Fed to keep rates on hold or end the easing cycle with another 25 basis point cut.   

"If there are no more Fed cuts from here on this does take some of the pressure off these central banks," said Caroline Grady, regional economist at  Deutsche Bank.

Gulf central banks usually track U.S. monetary policy to maintain the relative yield on their currencies. The Fed cut on Wednesday takes the gap between returns investors get on the Saudi riyal and dollar to its widest since 2002.   

The Saudi central bank left its benchmark repurchase rate unchanged at 5.5 percent with the U.S. federal funds rate at 4.5 percent. The average rate spread over the past 15 years has been 36 basis points, according to  Deutsche Bank.

The Sept. 18 Fed cut divided the six states preparing for monetary union as early as 2010. Oman, Bahrain and Saudi Arabia ignored that move. Qatar and the UAE cut some rates with Kuwait, which has tracked the dinar against a currency basket since May.   

Oman's central bank is closed on Thursdays. Qatar cut its the deposit facility rate and Kuwait its repurchase rate by 25 basis points each. Bahrain reduced all borrowing costs by a quarter point. The UAE, which has no benchmark, cut certificate of deposit rates by 20 basis points. (Additional reporting by Souhail Karam in Riyadh and Mohammed Abbas in Bahrain)   
   RFGULF-CURRENCIES/ (UPDATE 3)|LANGEN|ABN|M|E|RBN|D|MD|GFN|BNX|RNP|DNP   NSe1201 : Central Bank Intervention | e1202 : Interest Rates | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REasiaz : Asia | bahrn : Bahrain | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | kuwait : Kuwait | meastz : Middle East | oman : Oman | qatar : Qatar | saarab : Saudi Arabia | uae : United Arab Emirates | usa : United States | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | gulfstz : Persian Gulf Regions | namz : North America | wasiaz : Western Asia   IPCCEN | MCE | FRX | INT | FED | STIR   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020071101e3b1000gw  



 HDCanada dollar dips on rate uncertainty, bonds mixed      BYBy John McCrank      WC776 words   PD30 October 2007   ET15:05   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007 Reuters Limited   
   LPTORONTO, Oct 30 (Reuters) - The Canadian dollar slipped against the U.S. dollar on Tuesday, amid uncertainty ahead of an impending interest rate decision by the U.S. Federal Reserve on Wednesday.   

Domestic bond prices were mixed in the wake of weaker-than-expected Canadian producer prices data showing a drop of 0.9 percent in September.   
   TDAt 9:34 a.m. (1334 GMT), the Canadian dollar was at US$1.0465, putting each U.S. dollar at 95.55 Canadian cents, down from Monday's close of US$1.0496, or 95.27 Canadian cents.   

The Canadian unit continued to benefit from strong commodities prices but was unable to reach its 47-year high of over US$1.05 on Monday, amid renewed U.S. dollar strength.   

The greenback's rebound was partly spurred by a report by Wall Street Journal's Fed watcher Greg Ip, who said a Fed rate cut was not a sure thing, said Camilla Sutton, currency strategist at Scotia Capital.   

Ip, who is known for reflecting the views of central bankers, all but nixes the idea of another 50-point cut to the fed funds rate, and suggests the Fed may not cut rates at all, while leaving the door open for future softening.   

The market has fully priced in a 25-basis-point cut in the fed funds rate to cushion the impact of the U.S. housing downturn. Many analysts see more cuts in the future.   

Before Ip's report, the main focus for Wednesday had been what the Fed would say in its statement following its rate decision, as a cut was seen as a slam dunk.   

But that's not the case anymore, said Sutton.   

"We have those calling for (a cut of) 50 (basis points), those calling for 25 and those calling for a Fed on hold, so it's definitely going to be an interesting Fed meeting tomorrow," she said.   

The U.S. central bank cut its key fed funds rate by 50 basis points to 4.75 percent in September, at a time when the market was divided over the size of its cut.   

A quarter-point cut this week would bring interest rates in the U.S. and Canada in sync for the first time since February 2005.   

Sutton said the Canadian dollar should continue to strengthen against its U.S. counterpart with or without a Fed cut, with U.S. crude oil prices <CLc1> lofty above $91 a barrel. Canada is a major oil producer and exporter.   

The North American currency pair could also be influenced this week by a slew of economic data, including Canadian and U.S. October employment figures.   

The robust Canadian dollar and the U.S. economic slowdown were seen as key factors behind the sharper-than-expected drop in Canadian producer prices, Statistics Canada said. Producer prices dropped 0.9 percent in September on a retreat in prices of vehicles, some metals and forestry products.   

BONDS LOWER   

Bond prices were weighed down by the weak producer prices data, but climbed on the long end shortly thereafter.   

While the initial movement in the bond prices was focused on the Canadian data, all eyes quickly shifted to Wednesday's Fed decision, said Max Clarke, economist at IDEAglobal in New York.   

"You're going to see some notable (U.S.) reaction following it in terms of the market not knowing exactly where to stand and I think you'll probably see (Canadian Government Bonds) follow suit," said Clarke.   

The overnight Canadian Libor rate <LIBOR01> dipped to 4.7000 percent from 4.7417 percent on Monday. The  Bank of Canada targets 4.50 percent for the overnight rate.   

Monday's CORRA rate <CORRA=> rose to 4.5195 percent from 4.500 percent on Friday. The  Bank of Canada publishes the rate at around 9:00 a.m.   

The two-year bond fell 2 Canadian cents to C$100.26 to yield 4.265 percent, while the 10-year bond gained 2 Canadian cents to C$97.89 to yield 4.269 percent.   

The yield spread between the two-year and 10-year bond moved to 15.5 basis points from 16.7 at the previous close.   

The 30-year bond rose 1 Canadian cent to C$110.87 to yield 4.343 percent. In the United States, the 30-year treasury yielded 4.669 percent.   

The three-month when-issued T-bill yielded 3.99 percent, unchanged from the previous close.   
   RFMARKETS-CANADA-DOLLAR-BONDS|LANGEN|Table|ABN|E|U|RBN|CANT|D|M|RNP|DNP   NSm12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m131 : Money Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | e1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REcana : Canada | usa : United States | namz : North America   IPCFRX | DBT | GVD | MMT | CAD/ | CA/ | EMBG:DBT | EMBG:CAD/ | EMBG:CA/ | embargokeyE2   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020071102e3au001on  



 HDKuwait rate cuts won't stoke inflation -NBK      WC357 words   PD30 October 2007   ET16:26   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007 Reuters Limited   
   LPDUBAI, Oct 30 (Reuters) - Gulf Arab oil producer Kuwait's move last month to track the U.S. Federal Reserve and cut one of its key interest rates would reduce rather than stoke inflationary pressures,  National Bank of Kuwait said on Tuesday.   

Kuwait, the Middle East's fourth-largest oil exporter, cut its repurchase rate by 50 basis points to 4.74 percent on Sept. 19, a day after an equivalent cut in the U.S. Fed funds rate.   
   TDA week earlier, Kuwait had cut the repo rate by 25 basis points in an move analysts said would deter speculation on dinar revaluation.   

But the central bank left the benchmark discount rate -- which is used by banks to set lending rates -- unchanged at 6.25 percent.   

"Far from providing a boost to credit growth and adding fuel to the inflationary fire, the move was in part an attempt by the central bank to dampen inflationary pressures,"  National Bank of Kuwait, the country's largest lender, said in a report.   

Alone among the Gulf Arab oil producers, Kuwait dropped its peg to the tumbling dollar in May to fight inflation near 12-year highs and lower the cost of some imports, a third of which the desert state pays for in euros.   

Banks use the repo rate to set deposit rates, thus making dinar assets less attractive to international investors, NBK said.   

"By increasing the opportunity cost to speculators of betting on a dinar revaluation" the move restricted liquidity inflows from abroad, capping money supply growth that would fuel inflation, NBK said.   

With future Fed cuts looming -- economists polled by Reuters expect the Fed will cut rates by a further 25 basis points before the end of the year -- the Kuwait central bank would likely continue with this strategy, NBK said.   

"CBK is able to track future interest rate cuts ... whilst balancing the needs of the domestic economy by keeping lending rates relatively high," NBK said.   

The basket to which Kuwait now pegs its dinar currency is comprised mainly of dollar.   
   RFKUWAIT-RATES/NBK|LANGEN|GFN|GBN   COnbk : National Bank of Kuwait   INi814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REasiaz : Asia | kuwait : Kuwait | meastz : Middle East | usa : United States | gulfstz : Persian Gulf Regions | namz : North America | wasiaz : Western Asia   IPCINT | MCE | CEN | ECI | PLCY | EMBG:PLCY | embargokeyE1   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020071102e3au001uu  



 HDBrazil stocks fall on US rate doubts, real firmer      WC446 words   PD30 October 2007   ET16:39   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007 Reuters Limited   
   LP(Updates to close)   

SAO PAULO, Oct 30 (Reuters) - Brazil's stock market fell on Tuesday on concerns the U.S. Federal Reserve may not cut interest rates on Wednesday to revive the economy, while the country's currency firmed slightly on growing capital inflows.   
   TDThe Bovespa index <.BVSP> of the Sao Paulo Stock Exchange fell 1.02 percent to 64,383.13 points, falling below the 65,000-point mark after a record close of 65,044 on Monday. The index has gained about 46 percent so far this year.   

Brazil's currency, the real <BRBY>, gained 0.17 percent to 1.753 per U.S. dollar.   

A Wall Street Journal article on Tuesday cast doubt on the chances for a Fed rate cut, sending the Dow Jones industrial average lower and putting pressure on Brazilian markets.   

"The market is cautious. Overseas, there has been some profit-taking and here the market is taking its foot from the accelerator a bit as well," said Luiz Pizani, a trader at the Liquidez brokerage. "Everyone is trying to find hints on what the Fed decision will be."   

The real strengthened even after the central bank bought dollars in the foreign exchange market. The currency has benefited from continued dollar inflows, Pizani said.   

"Capital inflows continue to be very strong, from investments to the stock market and from exporters," he said.   

Interest-rate futures <0#DIJ:> on the BM&F commodities and futures exchange in Sao Paulo were mostly higher, after data released on Tuesday showed Brazil's broadest inflation measure rose more than expected in October. The IGP-M index rose 1.05 percent, compared with the 0.85 percent median forecast by 15 analysts in a Reuters survey.   

Shares in mining giant CVRD , the second most heavily weighted stock in the Bovespa index, fell 2 percent to 53.9 reais, retreating after a 4.56 percent surge the previous session, as prices of copper, zinc, nickel and other metals fell in international markets.   

State oil company  Petrobras , the top heavyweight at the Bovespa, lost 3.86 percent to 70.02 reais as oil prices fell from record highs, down more than 3 percent in London and New York as expectations grew that supplies rose last week.   

Shares of Bovespa Holding , the holding company that controls the Sao Paulo Stock Exchange, fell 2.66 percent to 31.15 reais, adding to an 8.55 percent tumble in the previous session. The stock surged 52 percent in its first trading day on Friday.   
   RFMARKETS-BRAZIL (UPDATE 1)|LANGEN|ABN|E|RBN|M|D|U|RNP|DNP   INi221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | i22 : Primary Metals | imet : Metals/Mining   NSm11 : Equity Markets | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | e1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REbraz : Brazil | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | usa : United States | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | lamz : Latin America | namz : North America | samz : South America   IPCSTX | FRX | DBT | STEE | STL | OILI | ENR | BMAT | MINE | MTAL | ENE | CPX | .SA   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020071030e3au00338  



 HDFED FOCUS-No rate cut would spark question of what Fed knows      BYBy Herbert Lash      WC811 words   PD30 October 2007   ET18:17   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007 Reuters Limited   
   LPNEW YORK, Oct 30 (Reuters) - Federal Reserve policy-makers are widely expected to cut U.S. interest rates on Wednesday, but if they make no move, investors will wonder what the Fed knows that they don't and question its commitment to transparency.   

Anticipation of a rate cut drove a two-week rally in bonds until late last week, when an upbeat outlook from  Microsoft and a profit forecast from struggling mortgage lender  Countrywide Financial took some steam out of U.S. Treasury bonds.   
   TDBut stocks also have rallied -- at least in part -- on expectations the Fed will ease and the dollar has fallen to record lows in the last few weeks in anticipation of a cut.   

At the same time, oil prices hit a record high on Monday, and if the October jobs report at the end of the week shows a strong labor market, economists say a rate cut would fan inflation worries. On the other hand, some are concerned that a cut in rates would unfairly bail out investors who have been hurt by the troubles in the subprime mortgage market.   

Short-term U.S. interest rate futures on Tuesday showed a 94 percent chance the Fed will cut rates this week <FFX7> against 98 percent on Monday.   

"If the Fed does not cut interest rates our speculation will be that the Friday unemployment report will be at the very least firm and that does risk a rise in interest rates across the board," said Jane Caron, chief economic strategist at Dwight Asset Management Co in Burlington, Vermont.   

Stocks would likely immediately sell off on no Fed move and short-term bond prices would likely fall, Caron said. What longer-term bonds would do is harder to tell and would depend on the post-meeting statement.   

If the Fed leaves policy unchanged, Caron said, policy-makers are likely to say they are carefully monitoring the economy and are prepared to act. But a rate cut and suggestions of more to come would push long-term bond prices down on inflation worries, she said.   

The Fed has a "very difficult call" to make, but a cut will again raise the question of whether the Fed is taking risk out of the investment equation, Caron added. If it does not ease, "there's going to be a lot of criticism about a lack of transparency."   

ECONOMY OR MARKETS   

The Fed's mandate is the keep inflation in check and the economy growing. That makes unemployment and jobs creation key to understanding a policy decision, said John Davidson, chief executive of ParnerRe in Greenwich, Connecticut.   

"If they don't do it, I think it will be because they think the economy is strong enough, it doesn't need further cuts," Davidson said. "If they do it, they do it based on continued weakness in housing and some initial signs of some weakness in employment, associated with the initial jobless claims."   

Davidson agrees with the consensus view that the Fed will cut the fed funds rate by one-quarter of percentage point. The next likelihood would be no move at all because the Fed should not bail out investors who are imprudent, he said.   

"I do think that the Fed is there to bail out the overall economy so that the penalties that should be absorbed by those who took out too much risk do not extend beyond the risk takers," Davidson said.   

The Fed's half-point cut in September has spurred record high oil prices and pushed the dollar down -- about 3 percent -- which points against a rate cut on Wednesday, said Joseph Battipaglia, market strategist at  Stifel Nicolaus.

"Since the massive intervention by the Fed, the credit markets have been recovering, though they are not fully recovered," he said. "On the economic front we still have a 3 percent growth rate, low unemployment and a pricing environment that doesn't show a lot of slack."   

Battipaglia said that in the past 30 days "there seems to be less Fed speak and demands from Congress about what the Fed can do to stop a meltdown in the economy, which suggests they can take a much more measured look."   

The tumbling dollar and surging oil may lead policy-makers to sit tight, said John Hardy, market strategist at Denmark's Saxo Bank. But the Fed also must avoid disappointing market expectations by not cutting, he said in a research note.   

"So perhaps the highest odds scenario is that the Fed does cut, but injects firm, hawkish language that gives the Fed maximum flexibility going forward," Hardy said. (Additional reporting by Jennifer Coogan)   
   RFUSA-FED/NORATECUT (ANALYSIS)|LANGEN|ABN|C|D|E|M|O|U|MTL|GRO|SOF|OIL|UKI|Z|ABX|BNX|DNP   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | e1202 : Interest Rates | gvexe : Executive Branch | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m131 : Money Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ntop : Dow Jones/Reuters Top Wire News | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCCEN | MCE | FED | WASH | PLCY | DBT | GVD | MUNI | INT | STIR | MMT | DRV | NEWS | EMBG:DBT | EMBG:PLCY | embargokeyE1R1:1   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020071030e3au0039n  



 HDFed meets with chances high for small rate cut      BYBy Glenn Somerville      WC567 words   PD30 October 2007   ET19:03   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007 Reuters Limited   
   LPWASHINGTON, Oct 30 (Reuters) - Federal Reserve policy-makers began meeting on Tuesday against the backdrop of a still-plummeting U.S. housing market that is sapping consumer optimism and may require more interest-rate tonic.   

The U.S. central bank's Federal Open Market Committee began a two-day meeting at 2 p.m. (1800 GMT) with futures markets betting that it will announce a quarter-percentage-point cut in rates at about 2:15 p.m. (1815 GMT) on Wednesday.   
   TDThat would be on top of a surprise half-point reduction the Fed made on Sept. 18 to its trend-setting federal funds rate for overnight loans between banks and would bring the key rate to 4.5 percent, its lowest since March 2006.   

There was a only a slight doubt in financial markets on Tuesday whether policy-makers would cut rates on Wednesday, with futures markets pricing in more than a 90 percent chance for a small reduction.   

Another dose of bad news on housing on Tuesday morning helped dissipate lingering doubts on rate cuts.   

The  Standard & Poor's/Case Shiller national home price index showed prices in 10 major metropolitan areas fell 0.8 percent in August -- a reminder of the deep housing-sector slide that policy-makers say is a key risk to the economy.   

The report showed home prices were down 5 percent from year-ago levels, the biggest year-over-year decline since June 1991, just after the 1990-91 recession ended.   

Not surprisingly, separate data on Tuesday from the Conference Board showed consumer confidence tumbled for a third straight month in October, reaching a two-year low.   

"Further weakening in business conditions has, yet again, tempered consumers' assessment of current-day conditions and may very well be a prelude to lackluster job growth in the months ahead," said Lynn Franco, director of the Conference Board's consumer research center.   

During the two-day meeting, in which the Fed may also resume a discussion on potential changes to their communications policy, officials will get a reading on third-quarter economic growth, which should at least assure them that a precipitous decline in activity has not taken hold.   

Economists surveyed by Reuters predict that gross domestic product figures on Wednesday morning will show the economy expanded at a 3 percent annual rate in the third quarter. That will be only a moderate easing from the 3.8 percent growth in the second quarter, although a steeper slowing is expected in the final three months of the year.   

The expected fourth-quarter softness puts a burden on Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke and his colleagues to meet their test of sustaining a noninflationary expansion at time when a housing downturn and credit-market strains are weighing heavily.   

In a speech on Oct. 19, Bernanke said that during times of stress, policy-makers must be prepared to counter uncertainty by acting boldly with measures to ward off a worse situation.   

"Intuition suggests that stronger action by the central bank may be warranted to prevent particularly costly outcomes," Bernanke said -- words that would echo the thoughts of many of those on Wall Street.   
   RFUSA-FED/|LANGEN|ABN|C|D|E|M|O|U|MTL|GRO|SOF|OIL|G|RBN|ABX|BNX|AFA|CSA|LBY|RWSA|RWS|REULB|GNS|RNP|PGE   NSe1122 : Mortgage Applications/Refinancing | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | e1202 : Interest Rates | gvexe : Executive Branch | m131 : Money Markets | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCWASH | FED | INT | MCE | STIR | PLCY | MTG | DBT | REAM | MUNI | CEN | GVD | MMT | EMBG:DBT | EMBG:PLCY | embargokeyE1R1:1   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020071030e3au003c8  



 HDRPT-TREASURIES-Bonds fall after Fed cuts, but hints at pause      BYBy Chris Reese      WC522 words   PD31 October 2007   ET12:59   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007 Reuters Limited   
   LP(Adds economist quote, updates prices)   

NEW YORK, Oct 31 (Reuters) - U.S. Treasury debt prices fell on Wednesday after the Federal Reserve cut benchmark interest rates as expected but signaled it may refrain from further easing if the economy holds up.   
   TDThe central bank cut the federal funds rate, the recommended overnight lending rate among banks, by a quarter percentage point to 4.50 percent, and said the move "should help forestall" any further deterioration in economic growth.   

Bonds extended losses immediately after the Fed statement.   

"(The Fed) gave the market a rate cut today with one hand, but with the other hand they pulled the rug out from under those who were looking for more rate cuts," said Chris Rupkey, senior financial economist at  Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ in New York.   

Benchmark 10-year notes <US10YT=RR> traded 21/32 lower in price for a yield of 4.47 percent from 4.39 percent late on Tuesday. Benchmark yields, which move inversely to prices, reached as high as 4.48 percent, the loftiest in over a week, and marking the biggest single-day jump in 10-year yields in over three weeks.   

"The market was expecting greater hints about the likelihood of further easing," said Richard Iley, senior economist at  BNP Paribas in New York.   

Short-term interest rate futures slipped on Wednesday, with futures implying a 42 percent chance the Fed will lower rates by 25 basis points again in December, to 4.25 percent, against 64 percent overnight. Bigger losses were seen in 2008 contracts as dealers scaled back ideas of rate cuts in the new year.   

Bonds had already been trading lower before the Fed statement, after stronger-than-expected jobs and economic growth data early in the day, along with stock market gains.   

The government's initial reading on third-quarter gross domestic product growth, released on Wednesday morning, was an annualized 3.9 percent, its strongest quarterly growth since the first quarter of 2006. For details see [ID:nN31336431].   

Earlier, the ADP National Employment Report showed U.S. private employers added 106,000 jobs in October, raising the prospects that the government's payrolls data on Friday will be stronger than the consensus forecast, analysts said.   

Economists expect 80,000 jobs were added to U.S. nonfarm payrolls in October, down from September's 110,000 gain, a recent Reuters poll showed.   

Two-year Treasury notes <US2YT=RR> traded 9/32 lower in price for a yield of 3.95 percent from 3.81 percent late on Tuesday. While two-year notes fell in price on Wednesday, their yields in October posted the fifth monthly drop in a row, which was their longest winning streak in four years.   

Five-year notes <US5YT=RR> traded 16/32 lower for a yield of 4.17 percent from 4.06 percent, while the 30-year bond <US30YT=RR> traded 1-2/32 lower in price for a yield of 4.75 percent.   
   RFMARKETS-BONDS (UPDATE 10)|LANGEN|DA|FN|NW|SW   NSe1101 : Economic Growth | e1202 : Interest Rates | m131 : Money Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ntop : Dow Jones/Reuters Top Wire News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCDBT | GVD | MUNI | INT | MCE | STIR | MMT | NEWS | SWP/ | US/ | US/N | XXSNPT   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020071031e3av001ie  



 HD3-month euro Libor rates fixed higher, dollar rates fall      WC298 words   PD31 October 2007   ET13:00   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007 Reuters Limited   
   LPLONDON, Oct 31 (Reuters) - London interbank lending rates for three-month euro deposits fixed slightly higher on Wednesday for the third straight session, while dollar rates fell ahead of an expected interest rate cut from the Federal Reserve.   

The rise in euro rates marks the first time in two months that three-month Libors have been fixed higher for three consecutive days, according to the daily fixing data by the British Bankers Association.   
   TDThe BBA fixings also showed that three-month dollar Libor rates fell to their lowest since March last year and were fixed lower for the 17th straight session.   

Three-month euro rates <EUR3MFSR=> rose to 4.60313 percent from 4.60250 percent on Tuesday, having hit their lowest level in over two months last Friday.   

Two-month euro Libor rates <EUR2MFSR=>, which now cover the year-end period, were at 4.58563 percent, slightly lower from Tuesday's near 30 basis point surge to 4.58750 percent.   

Three-month sterling rates <GBP3MFSR=> were fixed at 6.27938 percent from Tuesday's 6.27050 percent.   

Libor rates for three-month dollar deposits <USD3MFSR=> fell to 4.89375 percent, their lowest since March 2006, from 4.91125 percent on Tuesday, the BBA data showed.   

Dollar rates are coming down as investors anticipate the Fed will cut benchmark interest rates to 4.5 percent on Wednesday, although they're trimming their bets on a follow-up cut in December.   

Three-month rates, particularly in euro and sterling deposits, had shot up in August and September as banks hoarded cash as contingency to cover losses in their structured products hit by the credit crisis.   
   RFMARKETS-LIBOR (URGENT)|LANGEN|ABN|M|D|NAT|UKI|RNP|DNP|PTD   INibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | m131 : Money Markets | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REeurz : Europe | uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | weurz : Western Europe | eecz : European Union Countries | namz : North America   IPCFRX | DRV | DBT | BNK | FIN | MMT | STIR | MCE | INT   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020071031e3av001ij  



 HDUS RATE FUTURES-Q3 growth casts doubt on Fed decision      BYBy Ros Krasny      WC327 words   PD31 October 2007   ET13:39   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007 Reuters Limited   
   LP(Adds details, analyst comments)   

CHICAGO, Oct 31 (Reuters) - A stronger-than-expected reading on U.S. third-quarter economic growth has cast doubt on Federal Reserve monetary policy, hours before the Fed announces its latest decision on benchmark interest rates.   
   TDShort-term rate futures, which measure market expectations on Fed policy, slipped after Commerce Department data showed third-quarter growth at its strongest since the first quarter of 2006.   

Implied prospects for the Fed to lower interest rates today <FFX7> fell as low as 86 percent from 94 percent on Tuesday, but quickly rebounded to 90 percent.   

Bigger losses were logged in futures contracts for 2008 delivery, suggesting the market is anticipating less Fed policy easing in the new year.   

U.S. advance third-quarter gross domestic product rose by a 3.9 percent annual rate, up from 3.8 percent in the second quarter and well above the consensus forecast of 3.0 percent.   

With growth above trend, the case for follow-up interest rate cuts by the Federal Open Market Committee to its one-half-percentage point September ease looks less persuasive.   

"The Fed will have to mention the strong growth in their statement," said David Sloan, economist at 4CAST Ltd in New York.   

Still, analysts said policy-makers will probably be more concerned with fresh signs of weakness in the housing market along with declining consumer confidence that threatens to infect spending patterns in the months ahead.   

Many economists forecast much lower growth in the fourth quarter and in early 2008.   

"The big question is how the economy performs in Q4 and how much spillover there is from dire residential investment. This data does very little to resolve the question," said Alan Ruskin, chief international strategist at RBS Greenwich Capital in Greenwich, Connecticut.   
   RFMARKETS-RATEFUTURES-GDP (UPDATE 1)|LANGEN|ABN|E|RBN|D|U|M|MNI|RNP|DNP   NSe1201 : Central Bank Intervention | e1202 : Interest Rates | m131 : Money Markets | m15 : Derivative Securities | ntop : Dow Jones/Reuters Top Wire News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCDBT | GVD | INT | MCE | STIR | NEWS | MMT | DRV | FED | CEN | EMBG:DBT | embargokeyE1R1:1   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020071031e3av001nl  



 HDFed rate cut this week not a sure thing -WSJ      WC365 words   PD30 October 2007   ET02:56   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007 Reuters Limited   
   LPTOKYO, Oct 30 (Reuters) - A Federal Reserve interest rate cut this week is no sure thing and officials are not seriously considering a half-point reduction in overnight rates, the Wall Street Journal reported on Tuesday without citing sources.   

The article by Greg Ip, the Journal's Fed watcher who is known for sometimes reflecting the views of senior central bankers, said policymakers view this week's decision as a choice between a quarter-point cut to 4.5 percent and not moving at all.   
   TDInvestors have widely expected the Fed to cut rates at a two-day meeting ending on Wednesday, following a half-point slash in September, to limit the economic damage from the housing market's incessant slide.   

Futures on the fed funds rate have shown a small chance of a half-point cut.   

Currency traders in Tokyo said the article helped nudge the dollar up slightly from near record lows against the euro and multi-decade lows against other major currencies.   

Ip said perhaps the biggest risk for the Fed is that the market's certainty on a pending rate cut puts a burden on the central bank to deliver.   

"But the current market environment is more fragile than usual, and thus the consequences of disappointing the market are potentially more damaging. Against that, the Fed will have to weigh the risk that a cut will stoke inflationary psychology," Ip wrote in the article on the Journal's Web site,   www.wsj.com  .   

The Fed can mitigate such risks with its post-meeting statement by either leaving the door open to a future cut if it does not move this week or by dampening expectations for future monetary easing if it does lower rates, Ip said.   

Ip said the case for keeping policy on hold comes down to the economic outlook.   

While the housing market has deteriorated further, there has been little evidence of spillover into the broader economy and Fed officials "don't appear to have significantly altered their forecast of a return to moderate growth next year," Ip said.   
   RFUSA-FED/WSJ|LANGEN|ABX|BNX|FUN   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | e1202 : Interest Rates | m131 : Money Markets | ntop : Dow Jones/Reuters Top Wire News | ecat : Economic News | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCFED | CEN | MCE | GVD | DBT | MMT | STIR | INT | PLCY | NEWS   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020071030e3au0003g  



 HDASSET-BACKEDS-ABX up post-Fed, Sallie Mae deal eyed      BYBy Nancy Leinfuss      WC490 words   PD31 October 2007   ET21:51   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007 Reuters Limited   
   LP(Updates to add quotes)   

NEW YORK, Oct 31 (Reuters) - A key derivatives index tied to subprime mortgages bounced back above record lows on Wednesday as the Federal Reserve unleashed its second round of interest-rate cuts in two months to ease credit conditions.   
   TD"The Fed's Halloween cut turned out to be neither a trick nor a treat, with 25 basis points coming in as expected - not as good as an XXL (extra, extra large) Snickers bar, but better than an old box of raisins," one dealer said.   

The Fed cut the key federal funds and discount rates by a quarter-percentage point each on Wednesday. The latest action follows a half-percentage point rate cut last month by the central bank.   

The top-rated slices of the ABX were driven 3 to 5 points higher on short-covering ahead of the Fed's key announcement on Wednesday, but later gave back some of the gains after the latest rate cut was deemed not enough.   

"This morning was kind of quiet with indexes trading around the low, but then we saw a rally right before the Fed," one ABX trader said. "People began buying 'AAA' and 'AA' indexes and at one point, they were up by as much as 5 points."   

The top "AAA" slice of the benchmark ABX 07-1 index shot up by several points on Wednesday to 82.72, versus a previous record low close of 79.28, while the "AA" tier climbed to 49.57, versus a 45.72 record low close on Tuesday, traders said.   

"After the announcement, the index came back down to earth somewhat, with increased selling interest from shorts and profit-takers balancing out the buying flows," the dealer said. "There were very good flows over the session as the index finished broadly positive to break its recent downtrend."   

The riskiest "BBB-" slice of the ABX 07-1 index traded up to 18.94 on Wednesday from 17.36 at the prior close, traders said. The index has tumbled by 80 percent this year as the subprime mortgage crisis intensified.   

The index used by investors to hedge subprime mortgage exposure tumbled to record lows over recent days after October subprime loan performance data revealed delinquencies on loans made to risky borrowers had increased further.   

Credit rating agencies Moody's Investors Service and  Standard & Poor's each downgraded billions of dollars worth of subprime mortgage securities over recent weeks.   

In the primary sector, Sallie Mae will lead issuance in the market this week with a $2.0 billion student loan ABS offering, which is expected to meet with good demand.   

The deal is currently being marketd to investors by underwriters  Barclays Capital,  Credit Suisse,  Lehman Brothers, RBS Greenwich Capital and  Wachovia Securites, dealers said.   
   RFMARKETS-ASSETBACKEDS (UPDATE 1)|LANGEN|Table|ABN|D|E|RBN|U|MNI   INibnk : Banking/Credit   NSccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e1122 : Mortgage Applications/Refinancing | e1202 : Interest Rates | m15 : Derivative Securities | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REcana : Canada | usa : United States | namz : North America   IPCMTG | DBT | FIN | ABS | STIR | MCE | DRV | REAM | FUND | INS | BNK | BUS | IND | MAC | MUL | COFS | ABS/ | EMBG:DBT | embargokeyE1E1E1   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020071103e3av003cs  



 HDASSET-BACKEDS-ABX up post-Fed, Sallie Mae deal eyed      BYBy Nancy Leinfuss      WC480 words   PD31 October 2007   ET21:51   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007 Reuters Limited   
   LP(Updates to add quotes)   

NEW YORK(Reuters) - A key derivatives index tied to subprime mortgages bounced back above record lows Wednesday as the Federal Reserve unleashed its second round of interest-rate cuts in two months to ease credit conditions.   
   TD"The Fed's Halloween cut turned out to be neither a trick nor a treat, with 25 basis points coming in as expected - not as good as an XXL (extra, extra large) Snickers bar, but better than an old box of raisins," one dealer said.   

The Fed cut the key federal funds and discount rates by a quarter-percentage point each on Wednesday. The latest action follows a half-percentage point rate cut last month by the central bank.   

The top-rated slices of the ABX were driven 3 to 5 points higher on short-covering ahead of the Fed's key announcement on Wednesday, but later gave back some of the gains after the latest rate cut was deemed not enough.   

"This morning was kind of quiet with indexes trading around the low, but then we saw a rally right before the Fed," one ABX trader said. "People began buying 'AAA' and 'AA' indexes and at one point, they were up by as much as 5 points."   

The top "AAA" slice of the benchmark ABX 07-1 index shot up by several points Wednesday to 82.72, versus a previous record low close of 79.28, while the "AA" tier climbed to 49.57, versus a 45.72 record low close Tuesday, traders said.   

"After the announcement, the index came back down to earth somewhat, with increased selling interest from shorts and profit-takers balancing out the buying flows," the dealer said. "There were very good flows over the session as the index finished broadly positive to break its recent downtrend."   

The riskiest "BBB-" slice of the ABX 07-1 index traded up to 18.94 on Wednesday from 17.36 at the prior close, traders said. The index has tumbled by 80 percent this year as the subprime mortgage crisis intensified.   

The index used by investors to hedge subprime mortgage exposure tumbled to record lows over recent days after October subprime loan performance data revealed delinquencies on loans made to risky borrowers had increased further.   

Credit rating agencies Moody's Investors Service and  Standard & Poor's each downgraded billions of dollars worth of subprime mortgage securities over recent weeks.   

In the primary sector, Sallie Mae will lead issuance in the market this week with a $2.0 billion student loan ABS offering, which is expected to meet with good demand.   

The deal is currently being marketd to investors by underwriters  Barclays Capital,  Credit Suisse,  Lehman Brothers, RBS Greenwich Capital and  Wachovia Securites, dealers said.   
   RFMARKETS-ASSETBACKEDS (UPDATE 1)|LANGEN|Table|FUN   INibnk : Banking/Credit   NSccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e1122 : Mortgage Applications/Refinancing | e1202 : Interest Rates | m15 : Derivative Securities | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REcana : Canada | usa : United States | namz : North America   IPCMTG | DBT | FIN | ABS | STIR | MCE | DRV | REAM | FUND | INS | BNK | BUS | IND | MAC | MUL | COFS | ABS/ | EMBG:DBT | embargokeyE1E1   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020071103e3av003ct  



 HDTREASURIES-Bonds rise on weaker stocks, writedown fears      WC279 words   PD1 November 2007   ET12:57   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007 Reuters Limited   
   LP(Updates market action, adds jobless claims data)   

NEW YORK, Nov 1 (Reuters) - U.S. Treasury debt prices rose on Thursday, as safe-haven demand emerged on an expected weaker opening for the stock market due to disappointing earnings and worries about more bank writedowns.   
   TDAlso, government data showing tame inflation also bolstered bond prices, a day after the Federal Open Market Committee invoked inflation concerns in its monetary policy statement.   

Treasuries slipped in overnight trading as traders trimmed bets for future interest rate cuts by the Federal Reserve after it raised doubts whether it would cut benchmark rates further.   

Bond bulls argued further deterioration in the financial sector stemming from the housing slump and credit turmoil would pressure policy-makers to lower rates more in coming months.   

Worries about the financial sector intensified on Thursday after  Credit Suisse reported a $1.9 billion writedown on bad loans and mortgage investments and brokerage downgrades of  Citigroup due to capital concerns.   

These reports suggest  Citigroup, the biggest U.S. bank, "is under-capitalized and won't be able to deal with the blow from the consumer. This is helping Treasuries," said T.J. Marta, fixed income strategist with  RBC Capital Markets in New York.   

The price on benchmark 10-year debt <US10YT=RR> was up 11/32, wiping out an earlier 10/32 decline. The 10-year yield was 4.43 percent, down from 4.47 percent late Wednesday but up as high as 4.51 percent in earlier trading.   
   RFMARKETS-BONDS (UPDATE 4)|LANGEN|ABN|C|D|E|M|O|U|MTL|GRO|SOF|OIL|J|UKI|AUF|DNP   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | m131 : Money Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ntop : Dow Jones/Reuters Top Wire News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCDBT | GVD | MUNI | INT | MCE | STIR | MMT | NEWS | US/ | US/N | XXSNPT   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020071101e3b1001jd  



 HDUS RATE FUTURES-Up from lows on in-line core PCE      WC112 words   PD1 November 2007   ET13:37   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007 Reuters Limited   
   LPCHICAGO, Nov 1 (Reuters) - U.S. short-term interest rate futures edged higher on Thursday after the Federal Reserve's favored inflation gauge was in line with expectations for September.   

Futures show a 44 percent chance that the Fed will lower benchmark rates again in December, up from as low as 38 percent earlier in the day.   
   TDThe core personal consumption expenditures (PCE) price index rose by 0.2 percent in September, and the year-on-year core index was up 1.8 percent.   
   RFMARKETS-RATEFUTURES-PCE (URGENT)|LANGEN|ABN|E|RBN|D|U|M|MNI|RNP|DNP   NSe1201 : Central Bank Intervention | e1202 : Interest Rates | m131 : Money Markets | m15 : Derivative Securities | ntop : Dow Jones/Reuters Top Wire News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCDBT | GVD | INT | MCE | STIR | NEWS | MMT | DRV | FED | CEN   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020071101e3b1001ng  



 HDUS RATE FUTURES-Fed cut ideas up on ISM, stocks      WC134 words   PD1 November 2007   ET15:12   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007 Reuters Limited   
   LPCHICAGO, Nov 1 (Reuters) - U.S. short-term interest rate futures cemented earlier gains on Thursday after a key reading on the U.S. factory sector for October was weaker than expected.   

Futures show a 60 percent chance that the Federal Reserve will lower benchmark rates again in December, up from as low as 38 percent earlier. Much of the climb in expectations followed a steep drop in U.S. equities.   
   TDThe Institute for Supply Management said its October report on business fell to 50.9, showing the rate of expansion in the manufacturing sector is slowing. Analysts had forecast the ISM factory indicator at 51.5.   
   RFMARKETS-RATEFUTURES-ISM (URGENT)|LANGEN|ABN|E|RBN|D|U|M|MNI|RNP|DNP   NSe1201 : Central Bank Intervention | e1202 : Interest Rates | m131 : Money Markets | m15 : Derivative Securities | ntop : Dow Jones/Reuters Top Wire News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCDBT | GVD | INT | MCE | STIR | NEWS | MMT | DRV | FED | CEN   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020071101e3b1001xe  



 HD3-month euro Libor rates fixed higher for 2nd day      WC289 words   PD30 October 2007   ET13:02   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007 Reuters Limited   
   LPLONDON, Oct 30 (Reuters) - London interbank lending rates for three-month euro and sterling deposits rose on Tuesday, while dollar rates fell ahead of Wednesday's expected interest rate cut from the Federal Reserve.   

The rise in euro rates marks the first time in almost a month three-month Libors have been fixed higher two days in a row, according to the daily fixing data by the British Bankers Association.   
   TDThe BBA fixings also showed that three-month sterling Libors marked their biggest jump in two weeks, while dollar rates fell to their lowest since March last year.   

Three-month euro rates <EUR3MFSR=> rose to 4.60250 percent from 4.60063 percent on Monday, having hit their lowest level in over two months on Friday.   

Three-month sterling rates <GBP3MFSR=> were fixed at 6.27500 percent from Monday's 2-1/2 week low of 6.26750 percent.   

Libor rates for three-month dollar deposits <USD3MFSR=> fell to 4.91125 percent, their lowest since March 2006, from 4.96 percent, the BBA data showed.   

Dollar rates are coming down as investors anticipate the Fed will cut benchmark interest rates to 4.5 percent on Wednesday, although they're trimming their bets on a follow-up cut in December.   

Three-month rates, particularly in euro and sterling deposits, had shot up in August and September as banks hoarded cash as contingency to cover losses in their structured products hit by the credit crisis. Expectations for steady or lower interest rates and measures by central banks to calm money markets have pulled rates off these peaks.   
   RFMARKETS-LIBOR (URGENT)|LANGEN|ABN|M|D|NAT|UKI|RNP|DNP|PTD   INibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | m131 : Money Markets | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REeurz : Europe | uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | weurz : Western Europe | eecz : European Union Countries | namz : North America   IPCFRX | DRV | DBT | BNK | FIN | MMT | STIR | MCE | INT   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020071030e3au002gm  



 HDUPDATE 1-COMMODITIES-Markets down ahead of Fed rate move      BYBy Barani Krishnan and Veronica Brown      WC556 words   PD30 October 2007   ET13:29   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007 Reuters Limited   
   LP(Recasts, updates with U.S. markets' activity, adds NEW YORK to dateline)   

NEW YORK/LONDON, Oct 30 (Reuters) - Energy, metals and agricultural markets were down broadly on Tuesday as investors took profit from recent highs before a critical meeting Wednesday on U.S. interest rates.   
   TDIf the Federal Reserve cuts rates at the end of the meeting to avoid an economic slowdown, like it did in September, the dollar will get hammered again and that could create inflationary pressures that push oil up to $100 a barrel and gold $800 an ounce, analysts said.   

But if the Fed leaves rates where they are, the dollar could rebound sharply from the record lows it has struck against the euro for weeks now, resulting in an abrupt devaluation of commodities.   

"Everyone's looking to the Fed to cut rates by a quarter point, and if they do that, all those commodities priced in the dollar are likely to have a nice little jolt to the upside," Adam Sarhan, a Florida-based analyst at GlobalMacroResearch.com, said.   

"But if Fed remains flat, it will catch a lot of people off-guard," he added.   

The dollar sank to a new all-time low against the euro on Tuesday, with futures markets betting that the Fed's key rate will fall to 4.5 percent after Wednesday's meeting from the current 4.75 percent. Before September's cut, the rate was 5.25 percent.   

U.S. crude oil futures settled down $3.15 at $90.38 a barrel after hitting a record high of $93.80 in the previous session. London Brent fell $2.88 to $87.44, down from Monday's peak of $90.49.   

Interest rate fears aside, profit-taking in oil was encouraged by an expected recovery to Mexican oil exports, which have been disrupted since last week by foul weather.   

Adding to the bearish sentiment, traders said, were forecasts that a government report to be released Wednesday would show an increase in U.S. crude stocks. S]   

Most-active gold futures for December delivery on the COMEX division of the New York Mercantile Exchange settled down $4.80 at $787.80 an ounce.   

Spot prices for gold bullion fell to $781.25/781.85 an ounce in late afternoon trade in New York, against Monday's comparative level of $788.90/789.70. Bullion had hit $794.40 in the last 24 hours, its highest since January 1980 when prices rose to a record high of $850.   

In copper, COMEX's December contract ended down 3.95 cents at $3.4815 a lb. Copper for delivery in three months on the London Metal Exchange (LME) last traded at $7,710.50 a tonne, down $134.50 from Monday's close.   

Leading agricultural commodities on the Chicago Board of Trade tumbled across the board.   

CBOT wheat for December closed down 14-1/2 cents at $8.14 per bushel, after hitting limit-up on Monday.   

Corn for December settled down 5-3/4 cents at $3.70-1/4 per bushel.   

November soybeans ended down 19 cents at $9.92 per bushel.   
   RFMARKETS-COMMODITIES (UPDATE 1)|LANGEN|Table|ABX|BNX|AFA|CSA|LBY|RWSA|RWS|REULB|GNS|SXNA   INi13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i14 : Petroleum/Coal Products | imet : Metals/Mining | i1 : Energy   NSm1421 : Gold Markets | mcocoa : Cocoa Markets | medoil : Edible Oils Markets | mgroil : Grains/Edible Oils Markets | e1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m14 : Commodity Markets | m141 : Agricultural Commodity Markets | m142 : Metals Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mpcsmt : Precious Metals Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REasiaz : Asia | austr : Australia | china : China | eurz : Europe | skorea : South Korea | uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | weurz : Western Europe | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | eecz : European Union Countries | namz : North America   IPCCOM/WRAP | DRV | CRU | ENR | PROD | GRA | OILS | GOL | MET | LIV | SUG | COC | COT | ORJ | SCAN | EXPL   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020071030e3au002k5  



 HDUS RATE FUTURES-Boost seen from weak confidence report      WC118 words   PD30 October 2007   ET15:10   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007 Reuters Limited   
   LPCHICAGO, Oct 30 (Reuters) - U.S. short-term interest rate futures trimmed losses on Tuesday to be near steady after an October reading on consumer confidence was weaker than expected.   

Futures show a 94 percent perceived chance that the Federal Reserve will cut benchmark rates this week <FFX7> against 98 percent on Monday and as low as 80 percent earlier in the day.   
   TDThe Conference Board's index of consumer confidence fell to 95.6 in October from a downwardly revised 99.5 in September, and was the lowest in two years.   
   RFMARKETS-RATEFUTURES/CONFIDENCE (URGENT)|LANGEN|ABN|E|RBN|M|D|U|MNI|RNP|DNP   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | m131 : Money Markets | m15 : Derivative Securities | ntop : Dow Jones/Reuters Top Wire News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCMUNI | DBT | NEWS | MMT | STIR | MCE | INT | DRV | GVD   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020071030e3au002wq  



 HDEmerging debt-Caution ahead of US rate decision      BYBy Daniel Bases      WC680 words   PD30 October 2007   ET20:50   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007 Reuters Limited   
   LPNEW YORK, Oct 30 (Reuters) - Emerging market sovereign credits traded mixed to slightly weaker on Tuesday, with investors trimming some positions as a more cautious tone permeated the market ahead of a U.S. Federal Reserve interest rate decision.   

The central bank's two-day meeting ends on Wednesday with investors expecting interest rates to be lowered again in an attempt to stave off the threat of economic decline from the drying up of easy credit and defaults on risky U.S. mortgages.   
   TDEmerging market investors, while having been insulated to some extent from the United States' credit woes, still need a healthy U.S. economy to buy their high-priced commodities, services and value-added goods.   

A drop in crude oil prices also contributed to the cautious tone in the market as several emerging market nations benefit from the recent spate of record high prices. Crude oil was down $3.46 a barrel at $90.47 in late New York trade <CLc1>.   

Expectations for a rate decrease of 25 basis points to 4.50 percent were shaken by a Wall Street Journal article published on Tuesday that cast doubt on the chances for a Fed rate cut.   

Investors also had to absorb news that U.S. consumer confidence weakened for a third month in October to its lowest since the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina. Rising gasoline costs and a worsening housing slump took a toll on confidence.   

U.S. stock prices fell on concerns for the U.S. economy.   

"The market is waiting for a sign. The consumer confidence number isn't one that would prompt you to add risk," said Rafael de la Fuente, Latin American chief economist at  BNP Paribas in New York.   

The benchmark  JP Morgan Emerging Markets Bond Index Plus <11EMJ><.JPMEMBIPLUS> showed yield spreads tighter by one basis point to 196 basis points over unchanged U.S. Treasuries.   

Cash sovereign bond prices were marginally stronger while credit default swaps for many nations showed yield spreads widening, illustrating the tilt toward caution.   

"The most likely scenario is the Fed does cut rates and if they do, the outlook for emerging markets remains benign and constructive. If they cut by 50 basis points, then we get some risk aversion because it means conditions are not good," said de la Fuente.   

BENCHMARKS   

Among the most heavily traded issues, Brazil's 2040 bond <BRAGLB40=RR> was off 0.13 point in price to bid 134.375, yielding 5.511 percent.   

Brazil's five-year credit default swap -- which offers protection against default or restructuring -- showed investor unease by widening roughly 2.5 basis points to 85.50 <0#BRAZIL5UA=>.   

"Nobody really wants to stake out a long position here. Market conditions are thin to say the least. We watch and we wait for the Fed," said one trader at a German bank in New York.   

Argentina's discount bonds due 2033 <ARGGLB33=RR>, which rose nearly four points in price on Monday following the first-round presidential election victory of first lady Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner, held its gains, rising an additional 0.125 point to bid 99.063.   

There is hope in investment circles that Fernandez will have more political room than her husband, President Nestor Kirchner, to make policy adjustments and address problems with energy supplies and high inflation.   

Turkey's benchmark 2030 bond <TRGLB30=RR> cash sovereign bond rose 0.25 point in price to bid 157.875, yielding 6.789 percent. Five-year Turkish CDS prices however widened two basis points to 166 <0#TURKEY5UA=>.   

Turkish helicopters pounded Kurdish rebel positions near the Iraqi border on Tuesday. Prime Minister Tayyip Erdogan reaffirmed his readiness to send troops over the border in order to flush out and fight the rebels where they are hiding.   

Erdogan meets U.S. President George W. Bush in Washington next week. The United States and Iraq have urged Turkey to avoid a major military incursion.   
   RFMARKETS-EMERGINGDEBT/|LANGEN|ABN|M|D|E|RBN|U|RNP|DNP   NSmgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | e1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REarg : Argentina | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | ecu : Ecuador | usa : United States | ven : Venezuela | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | lamz : Latin America | namz : North America | samz : South America   IPCDBT | GVD | EMRG/DBT | EMBG:DBT | EMBG:EMRG/DBT | embargokeyE2   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020071102e3au00294  



 HDFOREX-Dollar drops to record low after Fed rate cut      BYBy Kevin Plumberg      WC623 words   PD31 October 2007   ET01:23   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007 Reuters Limited   
   LP(Recasts; updates prices, adds quotes, byline)   

NEW YORK, Oct 31 (Reuters) - The dollar fell to a record low against the euro on Wednesday after the Federal Reserve cut its benchmark interest rate by a quarter percentage point and said the pace of U.S. economic growth will slow this year.   
   TDEven though Fed policymakers said in a statement that inflation risks are now roughly equal to the possibility of slower growth, the weight of negative sentiment on the dollar was enough to lift the euro to an all-time high for the fourth consecutive session. It briefly pushed above the psychologically important $1.45 level.   

"It will take more than the Fed effectively making statements to change the broader trend of dollar weakness," said Flavia Cattan-Naslausky, currency strategist with RBS Greenwich Capital in Greenwich, Connecticut.   

"It will need strong data rather than words to squeeze positions," she wrote in a note.   

The euro <EUR=> jumped to $1.4504, a record high, according to Reuters data, and up nearly 10 percent so far this year. It later settled back at $1.4466, up 0.2 percent on the day.   

The euro's gains were broad and deep, rising more than 1 percent against the yen to 167.29 yen <EURJPY=>.   

The Fed's somewhat benign inflation outlook contrasted with an official estimate that euro zone consumer inflation in October was well above the European Central Bank's target, increasing the likelihood of higher interest rates there.   

The dollar index <.DXY>, a measure of the U.S. currency's value against a basket of major currencies, fell to a record low of 76.465. The index was down 1.6 percent in October, contracting for the fourth month in the last five.   

"With the housing situation the way it is, the Fed cannot take a chance of getting behind the curve with employment because in a levered situation that could worsen the housing situation," said Doug Roberts, chief investment strategist at Channel Capital Research in Shrewsbury, New Jersey.   

"The dollar at this point probably continues going down."   

The Fed decision to take the fed funds rate down to 4.5 percent and accompanying statement apparently did not alter two long-standing trends in the foreign exchange market: a weakening dollar and firming commodity-related currencies.   

In fact, among major currencies, the Canadian dollar and the Australian dollar have been the biggest gainers on the U.S. dollar since a crisis in the risky U.S. subprime mortgage market began to spread to other areas of the economy in mid-August. Both have risen more than 12 percent since then.   

The Canadian dollar climbed to a fresh 47-year high as oil prices <CLc1> rose to a record high above $94 a barrel. The Canadian currency was up around 4.8 percent in October, rising for the eighth month out of the last nine. The U.S. dollar fell 0.6 percent to C$0.9460 <CAD=>.   

The Australian dollar rose to a 23-year high at $0.9338 <AUD=> and was up 4.9 percent in October   

Sterling rose against the dollar to a 26-year high at $2.0822, up 0.8 percent <GBP=>.   

The medium-term outlook for the dollar is largely dependent on expectations about the federal funds rate, which in turn are based on incoming U.S. economic data, and focus in the market quickly shifted to Friday's October U.S. employment report. (Additional reporting by Walker Simon and Nick Olivari)   
   RFMARKETS-FOREX (UPDATE 14)|LANGEN|ABN|C|D|E|M|O|U|MTL|GRO|SOF|OIL|J|UKI|Z|CANT|AUF|DNP   NSe52 : Euro Zone/Currency | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | ntop : Dow Jones/Reuters Top Wire News | e1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REasiaz : Asia | austr : Australia | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | gfr : Germany | nz : New Zealand | uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | weurz : Western Europe | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | namz : North America   IPCFRX | EUR | DRV | NEWS | CEEU | USD/ | FRX/ | XXSNPT | EU   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020071031e3av0000y  



 HDTREASURIES-Barely budge in Asia with all eyes on Fed      BYBy Eric Burroughs      WC587 words   PD31 October 2007   ET06:37   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007 Reuters Limited   
   LPTOKYO, Oct 31 (Reuters) - U.S. Treasuries hardly budged in Asia on Wednesday as investors waited to see what the Federal Reserve would signal on the policy outlook after a widely expected interest rate cut later in the day.   

The Fed is seen as almost certain to trim rates by a quarter percentage point to 4.5 percent after a two-day meeting, but an article in the Wall Street Journal this week has stirred doubts about whether the Fed will ease monetary policy further in coming months.   
   TDAnalysts said the article, written by the paper's Fed watcher Greg Ip, suggested the Fed wanted to give itself some wiggle room on policy and did not want to be boxed in to further rate cuts due to market expectations.   

The article also said the Fed would likely tweak its statement to cool expectations of further cuts if it did follow through with a reduction following the half percentage point slash in rates in September.   

"If the Fed does cut the funds rate by 25 basis points (which is the most that seems likely), the policy statement would probably be designed to temper the market's optimism about additional rate cuts at future meetings," said Lou Crandall, chief economist at Wrightson ICAP, in a note to clients.   

Stephen Stanley, chief economist at RBS Greenwich Capital, said in a research note: "we very much agree with the notion that the Fed would like to accompany an ease with a statement that tamps down expectations for further rate cuts in December and/or beyond."   

Any effort by the Fed to moderate market expectations would likely spark selling of Treasuries and cause the yield curve to flatten, traders said.   

December T-note futures <TYv1> were unchanged at 110-21/32. Both benchmark 10-year notes <US10YT=RR> and two-year notes <US2YT=RR> were flat in price, yielding 4.389 percent and 3.814 percent respectively.   

Two-year yields, the most sensitive to policy changes, have gradually edged up from a two-year low near 3.70 percent hit last week.   

The spread between two- and 10-year yields was steady at 57 basis points, near its steepest levels in two and a half years.   

Before the Fed decision, investors will face a flurry of economic data including the first snapshot of third-quarter growth, as well as the ADP employment report and Chicago PMI for October.   

The ADP report, which is scoured for clues on the government's monthly payrolls data to be released later in the week, is expected to show hiring of 60,000 in October compared with 58,000 in September.   

The GDP figures are due at 1230 GMT, and economists have forecast that the U.S. economy expanded at a 3.0 percent annualised pace in the July-September quarter. The PCE and core PCE price indexes are both seen rising 1.5 percent.   

The Chicago PMI comes at 1345 GMT and is seen slipping to 53.0 in October from 54.2 the previous month, showing a slower pace of growth.   

Data on Tuesday underscored the housing market's shadow over the economy, with house prices in 10 major metropolitan areas falling in August at the fastest pace in 16 years and consumer confidence hitting a two-year low in October.   
   RFMARKETS-TREASURIES-ASIA|LANGEN|RBN|ABN|M|J|D|NAT|AUF|E|U|MNI|RNP|DNP|PTD|PMF   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | m131 : Money Markets | ntop : Dow Jones/Reuters Top Wire News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REasiaz : Asia | jap : Japan | usa : United States | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America   IPCDBT | GVD | INT | MCE | MMT | NEWS | DRV | STIR | MUNI | US/T | US/   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020071031e3av000h4  



 HDUS rate cut adds to India's worries over inflation, surge in foreign money      BYBy RAJESH MAHAPATRA      CRAP Business Writer   WC588 words   PD1 November 2007   ET12:42   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPNEW DELHI (AP) - Indian stocks hit a new intraday high and the rupee rose to its highest in nearly a decade Thursday as investors bet that the U.S. Federal Reserve's interest rate cut overnight will lure more investment money into emerging markets like India.   

But policy makers worry that more foreign funds flooding into the country could spur inflation and create asset bubbles.   
   TDIndia's benchmark stock index has surged 43 percent so far this year as foreign investors plowed more than US$17 billion (12 billion) into the market, with nearly half of that money coming in after the Fed first cut its benchmark rate on Sept. 18.   

Lower U.S. interest rates have eased concerns about a credit crisis in the U.S., helping international investors to feel more confident about seeking higher returns in riskier assets overseas.   

On Thursday, the Bombay Stock Exchange's 30-share Sensex rose to as high as 20,157 points, a new intraday high, in reaction to the quarter-point rate cut by the Fed. In late trading, the index fell back as investors booked profits to close down 0.6 percent to 19,724 points.   

The rupee rose to 39.23 per U.S. dollar, its highest since February 1998, although it slipped back later as the central bank stepped in to buy dollars.   

But earlier this week, ahead of the Fed's move, Reserve Bank of India Governor Y. Venugopal Reddy said in a television interview that he was worried that too much money was coming into the country's real estate and capital markets -- and could undermine the economy in the long-term.   

Inflation has declined to about 3 percent after hitting a two-year high of 6.7 percent in February, helped by the RBI's tight money policy and the government's decision to keep retail fuel prices unchanged despite a sharp rise in crude prices on the international market.   

And the government is already feeling pressure from ballooning fuel subsidies meant to protect consumers, particularly the poor, from surging oil prices.   

"The government would not be able to keep fuel prices unchanged for very long," said D.K. Joshi, economist at credit rating agency Crisil Ltd.   

Analysts say there are limits to how much the central bank can do to keep prices under check.   

On Tuesday, the Reserve Bank of India increased the cash reserve ratio -- the share of deposits that lenders must hold in cash -- by half a percentage point for the fourth time this year. It also decided to keep interest rates unchanged, a move that disappointed many people who had expected a cut in line with what the U.S. Fed and central banks elsewhere have done.   

Still, "there is a lot of liquidity in the system and the capital flows make it difficult to strike a balance between growth and inflation," Joshi said.   

RBI Governor Reddy said it has become necessary for authorities to take to "active management of the capital account" -- an euphemism for more curbs on capital flowing into the country.   

Last month, authorities moved to curb the use of participatory notes, a financial instrument that allows foreign funds to invest in Indian stocks without getting registered with the market regulator.   

Media reports said Thursday that the government was planning tax measures to discourage overseas borrowing by Indian companies -- another major source of foreign money.   
   RF7   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REindia : India | usa : United States | asiaz : Asia | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | indsubz : Indian Subcontinent | namz : North America | sasiaz : Southern Asia   IPCtagapf | selapfin | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | APFN AS FIN India Fed Rate Cut | D8SKROF80   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020071101e3b1002yv  



 HDUS rate cut adds to India's worries over inflation, surge in foreign money      BYBy RAJESH MAHAPATRA      CRAP Business Writer   WC588 words   PD1 November 2007   ET12:42   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPNEW DELHI (AP) - Indian stocks hit a new intraday high and the rupee rose to its highest in nearly a decade Thursday as investors bet that the U.S. Federal Reserve's interest rate cut overnight will lure more investment money into emerging markets like India.   

But policy makers worry that more foreign funds flooding into the country could spur inflation and create asset bubbles.   
   TDIndia's benchmark stock index has surged 43 percent so far this year as foreign investors plowed more than US$17 billion (euro12 billion) into the market, with nearly half of that money coming in after the Fed first cut its benchmark rate on Sept. 18.   

Lower U.S. interest rates have eased concerns about a credit crisis in the U.S., helping international investors to feel more confident about seeking higher returns in riskier assets overseas.   

On Thursday, the Bombay Stock Exchange's 30-share Sensex rose to as high as 20,157 points, a new intraday high, in reaction to the quarter-point rate cut by the Fed. In late trading, the index fell back as investors booked profits to close down 0.6 percent to 19,724 points.   

The rupee rose to 39.23 per U.S. dollar, its highest since February 1998, although it slipped back later as the central bank stepped in to buy dollars.   

But earlier this week, ahead of the Fed's move, Reserve Bank of India Governor Y. Venugopal Reddy said in a television interview that he was worried that too much money was coming into the country's real estate and capital markets -- and could undermine the economy in the long-term.   

Inflation has declined to about 3 percent after hitting a two-year high of 6.7 percent in February, helped by the RBI's tight money policy and the government's decision to keep retail fuel prices unchanged despite a sharp rise in crude prices on the international market.   

And the government is already feeling pressure from ballooning fuel subsidies meant to protect consumers, particularly the poor, from surging oil prices.   

"The government would not be able to keep fuel prices unchanged for very long," said D.K. Joshi, economist at credit rating agency Crisil Ltd.   

Analysts say there are limits to how much the central bank can do to keep prices under check.   

On Tuesday, the Reserve Bank of India increased the cash reserve ratio -- the share of deposits that lenders must hold in cash -- by half a percentage point for the fourth time this year. It also decided to keep interest rates unchanged, a move that disappointed many people who had expected a cut in line with what the U.S. Fed and central banks elsewhere have done.   

Still, "there is a lot of liquidity in the system and the capital flows make it difficult to strike a balance between growth and inflation," Joshi said.   

RBI Governor Reddy said it has become necessary for authorities to take to "active management of the capital account" -- an euphemism for more curbs on capital flowing into the country.   

Last month, authorities moved to curb the use of participatory notes, a financial instrument that allows foreign funds to invest in Indian stocks without getting registered with the market regulator.   

Media reports said Thursday that the government was planning tax measures to discourage overseas borrowing by Indian companies -- another major source of foreign money.   
   RF7   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REindia : India | usa : United States | asiaz : Asia | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | indsubz : Indian Subcontinent | namz : North America | sasiaz : Southern Asia   IPCtagpf1wcat | sel----- | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | AS FIN India Fed Rate Cut | D8SKROA81   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020071101e3b1002yw  



 HDDollar slumps against euro, pound, Canadian dollar as Fed announces quarter-point rate cut      BYBy TALI ARBEL      CRAP Business Writer   WC550 words   PD31 October 2007   ET23:31   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPNEW YORK (AP) - The dollar skidded to a new low against the euro Wednesday while the British pound broke through $2.08 after the Federal Reserve lowered a key interest rate by a quarter percentage point to 4.5 percent.   

The Canadian dollar bought more than $1.06 for the first time since 1957.   
   TDThe 13-nation euro soared to $1.4503, its fourth new high in as many trading days, while the British pound bought $2.0813, after having hit a high of $2.0822 Wednesday.   

The euro bought $1.4434 in New York late Tuesday, while the pound was worth $2.0679.   

The Canadian currency was trading at $1.0571, or 94.60 Canadian cents, shortly after the announcement, above the 47-year high of $1.0510, or 95.15 Canadian cents, it hit Tuesday. The dollar bought 95.35 Canadian cents late Tuesday.   

The dollar continued to plunge against the Canadian dollar in later trading, buying 94.16 Canadian cents. The Canadian dollar was worth $1.0620, the first time it broke through $1.06 in 50 years.   

"The stock market is going to think very highly of this (rate cut), but it will continue to undermine the dollar," said Michael Woolfolk, senior currency strategist at the  Bank of New York.

The Fed's statement was intended to signal a continued openness to cutting rates, while indicating that inflationary pressures made doing so risky, he said.   

Although lower interest rates can jump-start an economy, they can also weaken a currency as investors transfer funds to countries where their deposits and fixed-income investments bring higher returns.   

"Currency traders are not buying into the relative hawkishness cropping up in this month's statement," said Ashraf Laidi, chief currency analyst at CMC Markets U.S. "While the outlook for the Fed is between further rate cuts and no rate cuts ... rates will remain unchanged if not go up for foreign banks," he said, causing currency traders to drop the dollar.   

The rate-cut announcement, while expected, drove the dollar down, even as new U.S. data showed the economy grew at a 3.9 percent pace in the third quarter, the fastest pace in 1 1/2 years.   

A second report showed that construction spending rose 0.3 percent in September, the best showing in four months.   

The euro, the Canadian dollar and the pound have been climbing steadily against the dollar, regularly touching new highs since August amid fears for the health of the U.S. economy, stoked by the subprime credit crisis.   

The euro has been helped by sentiment that the European Central Bank has yet to finish a gradual campaign of rate increases, while the pound has benefited from expectations that the Bank of England will leave rates untouched rather than follow the Fed in cutting the cost of borrowing.   

The Canadian dollar, a commodity-backed currency, has benefited as oil prices soared and demand for Canada's exports increases.   

In other trading, the dollar rose against the Japanese currency, climbing to 115.31 yen from 114.77 yen Tuesday. However, the dollar slid against the Swiss franc to 1.1565 from 1.1600.   
   RF5   NSm13 : Money/Forex Markets | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | eec : European Union | e1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations   REcana : Canada | eurz : Europe | uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | eecz : European Union Countries | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe   IPCtagdstab | sel9---- | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | Dollar | D8SKG5N01   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020071031e3av001kl  



 HDDollar slumps against euro, pound, Canadian dollar as Fed announces quarter-point rate cut      BYBy TALI ARBEL      CRAP Business Writer   WC550 words   PD31 October 2007   ET22:44   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPNEW YORK (AP) - The dollar skidded to a new low against the euro Wednesday while the British pound broke through $2.08 after the Federal Reserve lowered a key interest rate by a quarter percentage point to 4.5 percent.   

The Canadian currency bought more than $1.60 for the first time since 1957.   
   TDThe 13-nation euro soared to $1.4503, its fourth new high in as many trading days, while the British pound bought $2.0813, after having hit a high of $2.0822 Wednesday.   

The euro bought $1.4434 in New York late Tuesday, while the pound was worth $2.0679.   

The Canadian currency was trading at $1.0571, or 94.60 Canadian cents, shortly after the announcement, above the 47-year high of $1.0510, or 95.15 Canadian cents, it hit Tuesday. The dollar bought 95.35 Canadian cents late Tuesday.   

The dollar continued to plunge against the Canadian dollar in later trading, buying 94.16 Canadian cents. The Canadian dollar was worth $1.0620, the first time it broke through $1.60 in 50 years.   

"The stock market is going to think very highly of this (rate cut), but it will continue to undermine the dollar," said Michael Woolfolk, senior currency strategist at the  Bank of New York.

The Fed's statement was intended to signal a continued openness to cutting rates, while indicating that inflationary pressures made doing so risky, he said.   

Although lower interest rates can jump-start an economy, they can also weaken a currency as investors transfer funds to countries where their deposits and fixed-income investments bring higher returns.   

"Currency traders are not buying into the relative hawkishness cropping up in this month's statement," said Ashraf Laidi, chief currency analyst at CMC Markets U.S. "While the outlook for the Fed is between further rate cuts and no rate cuts ... rates will remain unchanged if not go up for foreign banks," he said, causing currency traders to drop the dollar.   

The rate-cut announcement, while expected, drove the dollar down, even as new U.S. data showed the economy grew at a 3.9 percent pace in the third quarter, the fastest pace in 1 1/2 years.   

A second report showed that construction spending rose 0.3 percent in September, the best showing in four months.   

The euro, the Canadian dollar and the pound have been climbing steadily against the dollar, regularly touching new highs since August amid fears for the health of the U.S. economy, stoked by the subprime credit crisis.   

The euro has been helped by sentiment that the European Central Bank has yet to finish a gradual campaign of rate increases, while the pound has benefited from expectations that the Bank of England will leave rates untouched rather than follow the Fed in cutting the cost of borrowing.   

The Canadian dollar, a commodity-backed currency, has benefited as oil prices soared and demand for Canada's exports increases.   

In other trading, the dollar rose against the Japanese currency, climbing to 115.31 yen from 114.77 yen Tuesday. However, the dollar slid against the Swiss franc to 1.1565 from 1.1600.   
   RF7   NSm13 : Money/Forex Markets | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | eec : European Union | e1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations   REcana : Canada | eurz : Europe | uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | eecz : European Union Countries | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe   IPCtagapf | selapfin | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | APFN Dollar | D8SKFFJG1   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020071031e3av003w9  



 HDFed rate cut sought by Wall Street would have only limited impact on housing, banking sectors      BYBy ALAN ZIBEL      CRAP Business Writer   WC666 words   PD31 October 2007   ET20:27   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPWASHINGTON (AP) - The Federal Reserve's cut of a key interest rate Wednesday is unlikely to boost hard-hit banks and homebuilders much in the near term, analysts say.   

The Fed policymaking committee approved cutting a key short-term rate by a quarter percentage point Wednesday to help the economy get through a deeper-than-expected housing slump and credit crunch that accelerated in August. Shares of major national banks and homebuilders fell on the news.   
   TDThe Fed's decision comes amid widespread anxiety among investors that the housing slump and soaring oil prices will stall consumer spending and drag the economy into a recession. The Fed said in a statement that the "pace of economic expansion will likely slow in the near term, partly reflecting the intensification of the housing correction."   

Over the next 12 to 18 months, lower short-term rates will aid the overall economy because many equity credit lines and some credit card rates are pegged to short-term market rates. The central bank's federal funds rate, the rate banks charge each other for overnight loans, now stands at 4.50 percent.   

Still, analysts say the Fed's rate cut, on top of a half-percentage-point reduction in September, the outlook won't change much, if at all, for companies on the front lines of surging mortgage defaults and a dried-up market for complex securities backed by home loans.   

"The problems in the housing market, the problems in the credit markets are not easily solved by the Fed cutting rates," Steve East, chief economist for investment bank Friedman Billings, Ramsey & Co. in Arlington, Virginia, who sees the Fed making three quarter-point cuts by January and puts the odds of a recession in 2008 at 60 percent.   

The thinking is that lenders can improve battered balance sheets if they have to pay less for money they borrow short-term while the rate they charge borrowers for long-term loans holds steady or moves higher. Yet analysts say problems in the credit markets extend beyond the benefits of small rate cuts.   

Struggling homebuilders, such as  D.R. Horton Inc.,  Lennar Corp. and  Pulte Homes Inc., are faced with tightened lending standards and severely limited demand. Many would-be buyers are unable to qualify for loan approvals, even if rates move lower.   

Lower interest rates are "certainly not the panacea" for getting the housing market back on track, said  UBS homebuilding analyst David Goldberg.   

Brian Catalde, president of the National Association of Home Builders, was more optimistic, saying in an e-mailed statement that the Fed's move "will bolster consumer confidence, keep the economy on a positive track and help the housing market begin to recover next year."   

A Commerce Department report out Wednesday morning shows economic growth remains solid. Gross domestic product, a broad measure of U.S. economic activity, grew at a 3.9 percent annual pace in the July-September quarter, the fastest in 1 1/2 years.   

However, the median U.S. home price nationwide fell for the eighth consecutive month in August, according to the S&P/Case-Shiller index released Tuesday. Fifteen of 20 metropolitan areas included in the index declined. Many experts predict housing prices will fall further before demand rebounds.   

Jefferson Harralson, a banking analyst with  Keefe, Bruyette & Woods Inc. who follows banks such as  Bank of America Corp. and  Wachovia Corp., said an acceleration in losses from defaults "seems to be a given, whether or not a rate cut occurs."   

He says home equity lines of credit will be less likely to default if rates are lower. But that's hardly a revenue cure for banks in an environment in which housing prices continue to fall and foreclosures continue to rise.   

"The home equity business isn't going to be a growth business," Harralson said.   
   RF7   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | e1101 : Economic Growth | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPCtagpf1wcat | sel----- | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | NA FIN US Fed Interest Rates Housing | D8SKDFAG0   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020071031e3av000z1  
 Page 1 of 1      2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.


 

 Page 1      2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.

