 


 HDFT.com site : Fed keen to engineer fall in home loan rates.    BYMichael Mackenzie in New York    WC851 words   PD19 March 2008   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPAs Wall Street banks and US consumers have been ruffled by falling house prices, the main aim of the Federal Reserve and other regulators has been to engineer a sharp reduction in mortgage rates. 

The Fed on Tuesday slashed its benchmark interest rate by 75 basis points to 2.25 per cent. Meanwhile, mortgage financiers Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac - the Government Sponsored Enterprises - on Wednesday got the go-ahead from their regulator to pump as much as $200bn of liquidity into the beleaguered US mortgage market. 
   TDThe fear is that until prices in the $12,000bn US residential housing market stop falling and the pace of foreclosures ebbs, the pain for banks and for home owners will continue and threaten a much deeper and broader economic recession. The hope is that lower mortgage rates could enable home owners to cut their borrowing costs as they opt for better terms and help cushion the pain of falling home prices. 

When the Federal Reserve aggressively cut interest rates between 2001 and 2003, it ignited a boom in mortgage refinancing. 

In this cycle, however, the efficiency of monetary policy has been hamstrung by volatile trading conditions in the mortgage market, which has kept mortgage rates high. 

The US mortgage market is dominated by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, Wall Street banks, hedge funds and other investors. 

Until recently, prospective homeowners had an array of funding options for their home loans because Wall Street had developed a deep mortgage-backed securities (MBS) market in the past decade. 

The ultimate buyers of MBS and other mortgage products hold the risk associated with rising home loan defaults. In good times this is a boon for home-owners but, after widespread late payments and defaults on high-risk subprime mortgages, this market has broken down. 

As banks have tightened their credit standards in response, hedge funds with highly levered mortgage positions have been forced to sell their holdings. These forced sales have ignited additional rounds of sales and the market turbulence has been felt on Main Street. 

This explains why in recent months mortgage rates have been extremely volatile and remain well above January's lows, when the Federal Reserve sliced borrowing costs by 1.25 percentage points. 

The Fed's cut on Wednesday and direct lending of funds to investment banks has helped ease the MBS market and flowed through to parts of the mortgage market for home-owners. While long-term Treasury yields have fallen, this has not flowed through to all parts of the mortgage market. 

From a low of 6.40 per cent this year, the fixed 30-year rate for jumbo mortgages is currently above 7 per cent. In contrast, 30-year fixed rates are currently about 5.66 per cent, down from 6.10 per cent this month. 

Analysts believe the Fed will continue cutting rates and supply generous amounts of funding for banks in order to reduce mortgage rates further. 

"We continue to believe the focus of the Fed needs to be to get the mortgage rate lower for a period of time long enough for most people to refinance," said Noah Estrin, strategist at RBS Greenwich Capital. "Until that occurs the economy is going to suffer." 

But it is clear the Fed's ability to reduce long-term borrowing rates via monetary policy has not worked well and regulators are now pursuing other methods, such as granting greater flexibility to the GSEs. 

Mr Estrin said: "Perhaps they - the Fed - are starting to understand this point and is why they are relying on the liquidity provisions enacted last week over a more radical decline in the funds rate." 

Given their dominance, any solution to the housing crunch naturally involves the GSEs and on Wednesday the regulator of Fannie and Freddie eased the capital surcharge on their portfolios. 

The reduction of their surplus capital requirement from 30 to 20 per cent means, in theory, that the GSEs can buy an additional $200bn of mortgages. This was welcomed by some analysts, as it should help improve conditions in the MBS market and ultimately fashion lower rates for home owners. 

"GSE capital relief should be an effective catalyst for the next leg of tightening towards long-run levels in these spreads and restore greater normalcy in the agency MBS market in our view," said analysts at Credit Suisse.

However, others caution the GSEs will take their time. 

"We doubt that Fannie and Freddie will find it economically attractive or prudent to fully lever back up," said Mary-Beth Fisher, strategist at UBS. She said their long-term funding costs remain high and that the difference between their agency debt and that of the mortgage debt they buy "has been tightening, squeezing potential profits." 

Mortgage rates could remain high for some time to come as a result, as mortgage investors continue to purge badly underwritten mortgages amid falling house prices, until the buyers of last resort are in a stronger position. 

Additional reporting by Saskia Scholtes  
   RF62983928   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTCOM00020080320e43j0002s  



 HDFT.com site : Fed's rate cuts alone cannot solve crisis.    BYKrishna Guha in London    WC515 words   PD18 March 2008   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPTuesday's decision by the Federal Reserve to cut interest rates by only 75 basis points - less than the market was expecting - sends three important messages. 

First, the US central bank has not forgotten about inflation, and will factor inflation risk into its calculations even as it eases policy to deal with the greater risks to growth. Second, policymakers do not believe that monetary policy alone can solve the credit crisis. 
   TDThird, that while the Fed knows it cannot radically disappoint investors at a time of extreme fragility, officials will not simply do whatever the market wants them to do. 

These messages were reinforced by the pattern of voting on the committee. Two Fed policymakers - Richard Fisher, president of the Dallas Fed, and Charles Plosser, president of the Philadelphia Fed, dissented in favour of a still smaller 50 basis point cut. No one dissented in favour of the 100 basis point cut that most in the market were expecting. 

"We are very surprised that more than one policymaker would issue a formal dissent in such a fragile environment," said David Greenlaw, an economist at Morgan Stanley.

These messages are all interconnected. Fed policymakers want to signal that they are committed to containing inflation. They worry that excessive rate cuts could fuel the decline in the dollar, push up commodity prices and unsettle inflation expectations. 

But they also believe that if they cut rates too far, the bond market could rebel, pushing up long term interest rates, including mortgage rates - undermining the effort to support growth. 

Mohamed El-Erian, co-chief executive at Pimco, the bond fund manager, said: "I read today's signals out of the Fed as indicating a growing recognition that the interest rate instrument may be too blunt for the problems facing the US economy." 

Fed policymakers believe that while monetary policy has an important role in mitigating the credit crisis, rate cuts alone cannot solve this crisis, given the inflation constraint and the dysfunction in credit markets. 

Instead they are putting increasing weight on non-interest rate tools, deploying the Fed's balance sheet in ever-more aggressive ways to support market liquidity. 

These measures are complements rather than substitutes for rate cuts. But to the extent that they succeed, they will make rate cuts more effective. 

With the liquidity operations in place, "today's less than expected rate cut will be felt more directly and more powerfully by those institutions involved in the process of creating credit," said Max Bublitz, strategist at SCM Advisors. 

Even this combination, though, may not be enough. A growing number of experts believe that the Fed and the US government may at some point have to resort to more radical solutions, deploying public capital to tackle problems in the housing and mortgage finance markets directly. 

Yesterday's Fed meeting could mark the point at which the crux of the policy response to the credit crisis moved away from rate cuts and macroeconomic stimulus, towards other tools and microeconomic solutions. 
   RF62954936   INi81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | i814 : Banking   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1103 : Inflation/Prices | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTCOM00020080319e43i00034  



 HDFT.com site : The Fed risks doing too much.    WC468 words   PD18 March 2008   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPSo the US Federal Reserve cut by 75 basis points rather than 100 basis points: when the numbers are big enough, a small difference between them can seem unimportant. But with rates down to 2.25 per cent, every 25bp makes a significant difference to the Fed's brave but perilous monetary policy. 

There was ample bad news for the Fed to ponder, from evidence that the real economy is now finding it harder to borrow money, to accelerating falls in house prices; from consistently weak job creation to the near failure of Bear Stearns. The Fed's focus on reducing the danger of severe recession calls for looser policy than current inflation would normally justify, and if the Fed wants rates below 2 per cent, it is right to move there quickly. 
   TDBut it is hard to escape a growing sense of disquiet about the dangers and consequences of this aggressive monetary policy. Real interest rates in the US are now negative, with rolling average headline inflation of 3.1 per cent and even core inflation of 2.3 per cent surpassing the nominal interest rate. Since the first Fed cut last September, the trade-weighted dollar has fallen by about 6 per cent, while a broad basket of commodities is up by around 19 per cent. The risk of igniting inflationary expectations is severe. 

Inflation is not a problem that can be dealt with later, once recession has been staved off. If investors mistrust the Fed's will to fight inflation, they will demand higher returns on long-dated dollar bonds, so low Fed rates might not affect the longer-term rates that mortgagors and corporations actually pay - that is, if the stressed banks are willing and able to make loans at all. The Fed was right to note that "uncertainty about the inflation outlook has increased". 

A test of the Fed's policy is imminent. In 2001-03, a Fed Funds rate of around 2 per cent (on its way to 1 per cent) was enough to prompt waves of mortgage borrowers to refinance their loans at lower rates, which buttressed consumption. This time may be different. 

In the fever and fear of malfunctioning markets, with storied institutions suddenly close to collapse, it is easy to demand too much of monetary policy. It cannot magically take back imprudent lending and deleverage hedge funds; all the Fed can do is cut interest rates to the extent that inflation risks allow. It cannot avert all recessions and should not try. The Fed does have to prop up systemically important banks and help markets - but that will take unconventional measures. Nor should the Fed rush into a quasi-fiscal bail-out - that is primarily a choice for Washington. 
   RF62954183   INi81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | i814 : Banking   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTCOM00020080319e43i0002t  



 HDCredit Worries Ease as Fed Cuts, Hints at More Relief --- Stocks Jump 3.5% In Rally Reflecting Cautious Optimism       BYBy Greg Ip       WC1,578 words   PD19 March 2008   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGA1   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 2008, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)    
   LPWASHINGTON -- The Federal Reserve continued its two-front attack on the credit crunch with a steep rate cut, and hinted at more to come.    

The cut was less than financial markets wanted. But in a sign the Fed's prior efforts to boost lending through unconventional means may be getting some traction, stocks soared, buoyed by earnings reports from two big investment banks.    
   TDThe Fed cut its short-term interest-rate target 0.75 percentage point to 2.25%, not the full point that markets had been expecting. It was the largest disappointment the Fed has delivered to markets since the central bank began cutting rates in September. the move was also a signal that because of the Fed's concerns about inflation, it expects its other initiatives to bear more of the burden of stimulating growth.    

For at least a day, investors cheered. The Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 300 points ahead of the rate cut on a growing conviction the Fed's prior efforts to funnel cash to credit markets would work. Though stocks lost a chunk of their gains right after the 2:15 p.m. rate-cut announcement, they surged back to close up 420.41 points, or 3.5%, at 12392.66.    

Financial stocks did especially well. Shares of   Lehman Brothers Holdings, under sharp pressure lately, soared more than 46%.   Goldman Sachs shares rose over 16%. Both reported first-quarter earnings that, while off more than 50% from a year ago, were better than expected, prompting descriptions of the market surge as a relief rally.    

The dollar improved against both the euro and Japanese yen after the Fed announcement. The U.S. currency has fallen sharply in recent weeks as global investors questioned the Fed's commitment to resisting inflation, a worry that has sent money pouring into gold, oil and other inflation hedges. Oil sold off briefly after the announcement but then rose to close up $3.74 a barrel at $109.42.    

Though less than expected, the interest-rate cut was substantial. Yesterday was only the second time the Fed has cut so much since it began announcing its rate moves in 1994. The central bank now has cut short-term interest rates a full three points since September, the fastest pace of easing in decades.    

This reflects the speed with which a slump in housing and subprime mortgages has spiraled into a broad credit crunch, weakening financial institutions and making it harder for a broad swath of businesses and households to borrow. Most economists now think the U.S. is in a recession, with the debate shifting to how deep it will be.    

Recognizing that, the Fed signaled in its end-of-meeting statement that the prospect of more rate cuts remains on the table. "The outlook . . . has weakened further," it said. "Consumer spending has slowed and labor markets have softened. Financial markets remain under considerable stress, and the tightening of credit conditions and the deepening of the housing contraction are likely to weigh on economic growth." It said "downside risks to growth remain," and the Fed will "act in a timely manner as needed."    

Nonetheless, the Fed has increasingly come to the view that lower rates alone won't restore order to the financial markets and prevent a severe recession. It has rolled out ever more creative and aggressive attempts to infuse cash into market corners where it normally doesn't operate, culminating in Sunday's decision to lend to investment banks from its "discount window," a privilege previously reserved for commercial banks. Chairman Ben Bernanke also has publicly backed action to use public money to stem a tide of mortgage defaults and foreclosures.    

The Fed's actions are among several aggressive steps throughout the federal government that are coming to a head this week and could prove critical in combating the crisis. Today the regulator of Fannie Mae and   Freddie Mac, which provide the bulk of funding for home mortgages, is to announce an easing of their capital requirements and the companies are to pledge to raise more capital, people familiar with the matter said. Those steps should enable them to back more mortgages.    

Meanwhile, the Bush Administration which has so far resisted using large amounts of public money to save borrowers and lenders from bad loans, may be ready to compromise with Democrats on a more activist approach to the housing crisis. The Fed is "running out of pages in its playbook to address the growing crisis of credit and confidence," Senate Banking Committee Chairman Chris Dodd, who has proposed the Federal Housing Administration insure up to $400 billion in troubled mortgages, said yesterday. Now the Bush administration should be "equally aggressive."    

Yesterday, the Fed expressed more concern about prices than after its Jan. 30 meeting. "Inflation has been elevated, and some indicators of inflation expectations have risen," it said. While the Fed still expects inflation to ease as commodity prices plateau and as higher unemployment blunts wage and price gains, it said that "uncertainty about the inflation outlook has increased. It will be necessary to continue to monitor inflation developments carefully."    

With the economy continuing to weaken, the Fed remains concerned about what some officials describe as an "adverse feedback loop" of economic weakness, tighter lending and further weakness. It is thus likely to cut interest rates again.    

But the elevated concern about inflation in the statement suggests the Fed does think it's getting close to the bottom in interest rates. Some analysts speculate the Fed could trim rates before its next scheduled meeting on April 29-30, but many think that's unlikely unless the outlook or markets get markedly worse.    

The futures markets reduced the expectation they are showing for additional cuts. The futures now see the federal-funds rate, charged on overnight loans between banks, easing to between 1.5% and 1.75% by year's end. Before yesterday's move, futures investors were betting the rate would fall to 1.25% to 1.5%.    

The Fed also lowered the rate charged on direct "discount window" loans it makes available to banks and -- since Sunday -- to investment banks. It slashed the rate to 2.5% from 3.25%, keeping it a quarter-point above the federal-funds rate. Commercial banks began lowering their prime interest rates, to which some variable-rate loans are tied, to 5.25% from 6%.    

Highlighting the depth of the Fed's inflation concerns, two of the 10 voting members of the policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee voted against the 3/4-point cut. Charles Plosser and Richard Fisher, presidents of the Federal Reserve Banks of Philadelphia and Dallas, "preferred less aggressive action at this meeting," the Fed said.    

A worsening of both inflation and economic growth in the past month has made FOMC decisions more fractious. Each of the past five rate-cut decisions has triggered at least one dissent -- one favoring a bigger cut and the others favoring less. Yesterday's was the first meeting with two dissents since 2002.    

Messrs. Plosser and Fisher have been the most outspoken about inflation risks, but most other Fed policymakers are also uncomfortable with the recent deterioration in inflation psychology. The decision to trim the federal-fund rate less than markets expected appears, at least in part, a way to convey both that the Fed isn't panicking and that the central bank is weighing consequences of its actions on inflation psychology.    

The economy is hardly out of the woods. Investor confidence remains fragile just days after the Fed made an unprecedented loan to prevent the collapse of   Bear Stearns Cos., exposing how deeply the credit squeeze had penetrated the U.S. financial system. Sunday's statement that the Fed would lend to investment banks, and on the same terms as to commercial banks, was the boldest step the central bank has taken so far to employ its own balance sheet to take some riskier debt off the hands of financial institutions.    

The stresses in the credit markets have kept some of the Fed's rate-cutting efforts from filtering through to borrowers. The average rate on 30-year mortgages fell to 5.5% in December from 6.4% in July when the crisis began; but then the rate went above 6% in February, even though the Fed had been cutting short-term rates since September.    

After the Fed a week ago said it would lend up to $200 billion in Treasury securities to bond dealers in return for mortgage-backed securities, mortgage rates fell to 5.74% from 6.2%, according to Bankrate.com.    

Rates on "jumbo" mortgages above $417,000 -- until recently, the biggest that could be guaranteed by Fannie Mae and   Freddie Mac -- are higher now than in July, because banks have trouble finding investors to buy securities backed by such loans. The Fed's move a week ago to lend to bond dealers also knocked down rates on jumbo loans, to 7.02%.    

Bank Credit Analyst, a financial research service, said a decline in rates other than those on super-safe Treasury bonds "would be the key indication that conditions are finally improving. If that does not happen, then the Fed will be forced to consider more drastic action, including direct purchases of securities."    







License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1101 : Economic Growth | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | gvexe : Executive Branch | npag : Page-One Story | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | ncat : Content Types   REusa : United States | usdc : Washington DC | use : Northeast U.S. | usva : Virginia | namz : North America | uss : Southern U.S.   IPCEWR | PIC | FED | USG | FCL | NND | PGO | TPT   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument J000000020080319e43j0003e  


 HDU.S. Rate Cuts Resound Throughout Persian Gulf   BYBy Katie Martin      WC352 words   PD19 March 2008   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGA13   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 2008, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)   
   LPMoves by the Federal Reserve to lower interest rates put more pressure on Persian Gulf countries that peg their currencies to the dollar, economists say.

Several members of the Gulf Cooperation Council, including Saudi Arabia, Qatar, and the United Arab Emirates, peg their currencies to the dollar. The arrangement offers them currency stability, but also brings side effects, such as forcing them to match the Fed's interest-rate cuts -- such as yesterday's three-quarter-percentage-point drop in the federal-funds-rate target -- even though their own economies are growing strongly and generating inflationary pressures.
   TDThe situation has prompted some currency traders to build up large positions in Persian Gulf currencies, betting that the dollar pegs are set to be revalued or even dropped as the Fed continues to cut interest rates in the face of worsening financial markets turmoil.

"When will the Gulf Cooperation Council pull the trigger?" analysts at BNP Paribas in London wrote in a note to clients yesterday. "The sharp decline of the dollar, in combination with the Fed probably cutting interest rates, will increase pressure on the GCC to cancel its dollar peg."

Inflation has accelerated sharply in the Persian Gulf, as economies there benefit from a global rise in oil prices, and a drop in the value of the dollar globally pushes up prices of imports. Recent reports put inflation at around 14% in Qatar, 7% in Saudi Arabia and 11% in the U.A.E.

Given those rates, some economists say local central banks will have little choice but to alter their currency-trading systems. Central banks in the U.A.E. and Qatar have recently said they are studying making such a move.

Authorities in the U.A.E. "need to go ahead with this revaluation," said Marios Maratheftis, regional head of research at Standard Chartered Bank in Dubai. "If the best solution [depegging from the dollar] is not possible, the revaluation is the second best, if not the only solution," he said.

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | gvexe : Executive Branch | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REqatar : Qatar | saarab : Saudi Arabia | uae : United Arab Emirates | usa : United States | asiaz : Asia | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | gulfstz : Persian Gulf Regions | meastz : Middle East | namz : North America | wasiaz : Western Asia   IPCDRT | FED | USG | NND | LMJ   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument J000000020080319e43j00018  



 HDThe Bear Stearns Fallout: In Europe, Fear Hasn't Spread --- ECB's Go-Slow Stance Reflects Prime Focus On Checking Inflation   BYBy Joellen Perry      WC866 words   PD18 March 2008   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGA20   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 2008, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)   
   LPFRANKFURT -- The fear of financial crisis gripping U.S. monetary policy makers doesn't appear to have spread to Europe. But a deeper rout in the dollar, signs of a sharp slowdown in European growth or evidence that a big European bank is in trouble could push European central banks toward similarly aggressive moves to those happening stateside.

Amid the Federal Reserve's efforts to shore up U.S. financial markets, European central banks yesterday were noticeable for their relative calm. With euro-zone credit market rates high -- but not spiking -- and inflation at a record, the European Central Bank refrained from extraordinary operations, as did the Swiss National Bank. In a relatively restrained move, the Bank of England injected GBP 5 billion ($10.1 billion) into U.K. money markets.
   TDThe primary reason for the difference in approach: No European bank appears close to collapse. "For the moment, it doesn't appear that there's an imminent financial debacle in Europe, so there's no need" for European banks to follow in the Fed's footsteps, said Paul de Grauwe, an economics professor at the University of Leuven in Belgium. "But if that were to happen here, the ECB would, of course, drop all other objectives and aim, just as the Fed has, to keep the financial system afloat."

Recent history suggests it will take a major event to prod the ECB to act more aggressively. Since September, the Fed has cut its key rate to 3% from 5%, and markets expect a half- to full-percentage-point reduction today. ECB policy makers, by contrast, have kept their key interest rate at 4% since June and stressed again yesterday that inflation remains their prime concern. Unlike the Fed, whose tasks are to promote growth and control inflation, the ECB has a mandate to focus solely on keeping prices stable. Soaring food and commodity prices pushed up inflation to a euro-zone record 3.3% last month.

"Price stability is the best contribution monetary policy can make to structural reforms in Europe," ECB executive-board member Jurgen Stark told a Paris conference.

The divide between the Fed's actions and the ECB's staunchly anti-inflation stance helped the euro rise to a record above $1.59 yesterday, as higher interest rates tend to attract investors to a currency. While the euro's current level is straining some euro-zone exporters, it helps both the Fed and the ECB by boosting U.S. export growth and taming euro-zone import prices. But a sudden spike in the euro's value, to, say, $1.70, could prompt global central banks to intervene in currency markets to prop up the dollar.

"Even if you can say a soft dollar is good for U.S. growth and for European inflation, that doesn't translate into the need for a disruptive move," said Holger Schmieding, chief European economist at Bank of America in London. A jump also could make the ECB more likely to cut its key rate to tamp the currency's value; many analysts expect the central bank's first cut to come in June.

For now, macro and money-market evidence also support the ECB's go-slow stance. Euro-zone growth appears to be slowing only moderately, and there is little sign of a credit crunch. And euro-zone money markets are tense, but not frozen. Overnight interest rates -- the rates at which euro-zone banks lend to one another -- hit 4.14% yesterday, above the ECB's 4% policy rate but well below historic highs.

Another reason for the ECB to stay on the sidelines: The Fed's increasingly aggressive moves have brought it closer to the ECB's standard operating procedures. The ECB has always accepted a wide range of collateral for its money-market operations, including mortgage-backed securities, and routinely provides euro-zone money markets with longer-term funding, both options the Fed only recently introduced. The ECB renewed 60 billion euros ($94 billion) in three-month loans last week; today, it could continue padding its regular weekly financing operation with extra funds.

ECB senior officials, who were in touch with the Fed this weekend, are wary of inventing new tools for fear of spooking markets further. They also believe euro-zone money markets aren't yet off-kilter enough to warrant new solutions, such as lowering the marginal lending rate -- currently at 5% -- at which banks can borrow directly from the central bank.

Still, the deepening turmoil is raising questions about the wisdom of the ECB's stance. "It's a riskier and riskier gamble," says Marco Annunziata, chief economist at UniCredit Global Research in London. "If the spillover from the U.S. in terms of growth ends up being stronger than the ECB anticipates, and you compound this with a much stronger euro, then you might end up with strongly declining European growth in the second half of the year, and with ECB monetary policy behind the curve."

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | e52 : Euro Zone/Currency | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | ecat : Economic News | gvexe : Executive Branch | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | ecbnk : European Central Bank | eec : European Union | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations   REeurz : Europe | uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | eecz : European Union Countries | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe   IPCDRT | PIC | FED | IGV | UKBK | UKGV | USG | NND | LMJ   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument J000000020080318e43i0001j  


 HDRepeat:US Credit Mkts Wk Ahead:Fed Mtg, Financial Results Key      WC716 words   PD17 March 2008   ET06:34   SNMarket News International   SCMARNEW   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008. Market News International, Inc.   
   TD
--Retransmitting Story Initially sent 11:42 ET Friday

By Alyce Andres-Frantz

     CHICAGO, Mar 14 (MNI) - The key events in the week ahead include 
Tuesday's interest rate decision by the Federal Reserve and first 
quarter financial results from some of Wall Streets top firms. 

     Analysts at  Barclays Capital said "In our view a crucial event will 
be the Fed interest rate decision and the market's response to it next 
week. We think a cut of 50bp is the most likely decision whereas the 
market is currently pricing in a cut of almost 75bp." 

     "If we are correct it is quite possible that market moves could be 
strong - previously equity prices have been supported to a large extent 
by the Fed easing policy more aggressively than markets expected. We 
think a 50bp cut is likely to be a USD positive, both because of the 
normal response to higher-than-expected rates and because it may lead to 
a downturn in prospects outside the US,"  Barclays said. 

     According to a Market News International survey taken and updated 
this week, 12 of the 20 chief economists at the primary dealerships 
expect a 75 basis point rate cut at next Tuesday's monetary policy 
meeting. Several of the others that forecasted a 50 bps rate cut 
admitted the risks were skewed towards a 75 bps haircut. 

     However, a low February CPI reading taken in tandem with Friday's 
news that  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM), in conjunction with the  Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York, has agreed to provide secured funding to  Bear 
Stearns (BSC), as necessary, for an initial period of up to 28 days, 
there were small odds or approximately 25% of a 100 bps haircut in the 
Fed funds target priced for Tuesday. 

     While the bailout of BSC looked like good news on the surface, 
sources said it made the already jitter credit markets another unneeded 
dose of caffeine. 

     As one trader put it "it's not like, oh the Fed and JPM are bailing 
them out, it is more like (emphasis on loud) OH THE FED AND JPM ARE 
BAILING THEM OUT!" 

     Thus, this makes next weeks earnings report all the more important. 

     First quarter earnings reports for those dealers that closed books 
on February 29 include  Goldman Sachs (GS) and  Lehman Brothers (LEH), who 
report on March 18 while  Morgan Stanley (MS) is slated to follow on 
March 19. 

     Mid-April brings fiscal Q1 earnings from  Merrill Lynch (MER),  Bank 
of America (BAC),  Citigroup (C),  JP Morgan (JPM),  Wachovia (WB),  Credit 
Suisse (CS), Countrywide (CFC),  Deutsche Bank (DB) and  UBS ( UBS). 

     Another key element will be repo market dealings as some expected a 
repo collateral shortage to tighten up. Monday will see the rolling off 
of $40 billion in cash management bills. 

     Things also to be aware of include Monday's 10-year notes 
settlement and the March National Association of Homebuilder index. 
Tuesday brings  February Housing Starts and February PPI prior to the 
Fed meeting results. Estimates on core PCE will likely be refined after 
PPI, economists said. 
 
     On Wednesday, the Mortgage Bankers Association Purchase Application 
data for the week of March 14 is due while Weekly Jobless Claims and the 
Philly Fed on due on Thursday ahead of the early bond market close prior 
to the Easter holiday. 

     David Rosenberg, chief economist at  Merrill Lynch eyes next weeks 
weekly claims data noting that the Department of Labor pointed out that 
there was some impact from the strike at a  General Motors (GM) parts 
supplier. 

     "We had factored this into our assumptions though the impact may 
have been lower than our estimates. The strike will likely have a larger 
impact on next week's claims as GM announced even more shutdowns," 
Rosenberg said. 

     "In total over 40,000 North American workers are now being 
impacted, with about 80% of them in the US. Continuing claims edged up 
7,000 in the week of March 1, to 2.835 million and are up more than 
400,000 since the nearby low at the end of 2006. The numbers suggest 
that the unemployment rate will continue to edge higher," Rosenberg 
said. 

-- aandresk@marketnews.com

     ** Market News International Chicago Bureau: 708-784-1849 **   
   COcnyc : JPMorgan Chase & Co.   INibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBMarket News International, Inc.   ANDocument MARNEW0020080317e43h00031  

 Is the Fed Running Out of Ammo?
WSJ Blogs, 18:30, 19 March 2008, 405 words, (English)
The moves taken by the Federal Reserve since August have certainly been dramatic: A full three percentage points of interest-rate reductions, and the introduction of an alphabet soup of lending facilities (TAF, TSLF, PDCF) to handle the ...
Document WCWSJB0020100526e43j006l4

 Behind the Fed's Unprecedented Steps
WSJ Blogs, 04:51, 17 March 2008, 969 words, (English)
In an extraordinary weekend move, the Federal Reserve announced the most dramatic expansion yet of its lending, promising to lend for up to six months to securities dealers under terms normally reserved only for tightly regulated banks.
Document WCWSJB0020100526e43h006lg

 A Three-Quarter Measure
WSJ Blogs, 19:22, 18 March 2008, 560 words, (English)
In the end, what the market wanted was almost what the Federal Reserve gave them. The Fed cut the key federal-funds target by 0.75 percentage point, pointing out the concerns about the economic situation and labor market, but once again ...
Document WCWSJB0020100526e43i006l0

 A Full-Point Cut Looks Likely Now
WSJ Blogs, 14:36, 17 March 2008, 280 words, (English)
The weekend's events have changed the calculus for the Federal Reserve, many economists say. Numerous researchers on Wall Street have adjusted their expectations for the outcome of the Fed's meeting tomorrow, and futures markets ...
Document WCWSJB0020100526e43h006kt



 HDCOLUMN-No one knows where this ends: James Saft      WC875 words   PD17 March 2008   ET21:00   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited   
   LP -- James Saft is a Reuters columnist. The opinions expressed are his own --   
   TD By James Saft   

 LONDON, March 17 (Reuters) - All bets are off.   

 No one knows where the financial crisis is going, no one knows who might be next to fail, and no one knows what the Federal Reserve can do about it.   

 The bank run on  Bear Stearns, ending as it did with an almost unprecedented Federal Reserve bailout and a sale to  J.P. Morgan Chase at an ominously low price, has undermined the confidence needed for banking and markets to function.   

Bear Stearns fell because others lost faith in it, and in the absence of better information, refused to extend it credit or do business with it.   

 That it was forced to sell itself to Morgan for about 2.5 percent of its recent stock market value would tend to back up those concerns.   

 And though  Bear Stearns was undoubtedly among the most aggressive players in mortgages, how fundamentally different is it from its peers? It is impossible to know, and that very impossibility breeds doubt which feeds upon itself.   

 Though the Federal Reserve has taken heroic measures to avert the chaos that a  Bear Stearns bankruptcy would have brought, as it is in medicine, the outcome for patients on whom heroic measures are taken is usually not so good.   

 It is hard to overstate just how radical the Fed's actions have been.   

 Besides slashing interest rates by 2.25 percentage points, including at emergency meetings, the central bank has hosed hundreds of billions of dollars of liquidity and loans to the financial system, has lent against collateral that is much riskier, and most recently has extended its largesse to a group -- investment bank primary dealers -- whom it does not regulate in the same way it does commercial banks and about whom it may know less. Make no mistake, the Fed's actions are risky, which is much different than saying they are foolish.   

 So will the Fed succeed?   

 "I don't know and I don't think anybody knows," said Ross Walker, an economist at  Royal Bank of Scotland in London. "The policy medicine might work, it might take some time to work but there is a feeling that it is all beyond our control."   

 Few can doubt the Fed's resolve, but if another large investment bank or bank sinks, justifiably or not, there is also concern about who can be found to buy them, even at fire sale prices.   

 "As the market focuses on the next shoe to drop, (it) needs to consider if there is another  JP Morgan Chase out there to step into the breach," analyst Marc Chandler of  Brown Brothers Harriman wrote in a note to clients.   

 "Many financial firms, as the earnings reports this week are expected to show, are experiencing their own stresses."   

 MONEY MARKETS LOSE FAITH   

 It's also important to remember that this is fundamentally a crisis of solvency, of banks and borrowers without enough money, rather than simply liquidity, or their access to ready cash. That means that liquidity and interest rate measures can only buy time, hopefully giving financial companies room to raise capital, or find a buyer.   

 But it also critically leaves the whole operation hostage to economic developments.    

 The problems, and the risks, won't end until house prices in the United States stop falling. With a long recession on tap, that won't happen soon unless we get a massive bailout of housing and banking from the government, something that is a lot less unthinkable than it was only a month ago.   

 If we needed more evidence that the problems will not end with  Bear Stearns, money markets, which banks use to fund themselves, were in a state of near collapse. Overnight dollar London interbank offered rates jumped by more than 80 basis points on Monday, the biggest such move since Sept. 11, 2001, as some banks scrambled for cash and other simply declined to do business with many counterparties.    

 Simply put, this can't go on and if it does it will bring down more banks.   

 "Banks, unlike non-financial corporates, have a binary business model,"  Morgan Stanleyinterest rate strategist Laurence Mutkin wrote in a note published on Friday.   

 "Non-financial corporations can continue in business - economic cycle permitting - even when their creditworthiness becomes stretched ... But banks are either creditworthy, and have a business; or are not worth lending to, and do not."   

 Credit, the business of banking, is ultimately about trust. The word credit has its roots in a Latin word meaning believe or entrust, which is why bank offices are usually so impressive.   

 Until we can see hard reasons to believe that banks are sound, and that will be a while, we will be in dangerous times.   

  -- At the time of publication James Saft did not own any direct investments in securities mentioned in this article. He may be an owner indirectly as an investor in a fund. You can email him at jsaft@reuters.com and find more columns at   http://www.reuters.com/news/globalcoverage/columns    --   

 (Editing by Ruth Pitchford)   
   RFCOLUMN-MARKETS/FAITH|LANGEN|ABX|BNX|FUN   NSe1122 : Mortgage Applications/Refinancing | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | e1202 : Interest Rates | m131 : Money Markets | m15 : Derivative Securities | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCMMT | DBT | STIR | MCE | BNK | FIN | CEN | FED | MTG | ABS | CDV | INT | INV | FUND | EMBG:DBT | embargokeyE1   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020080320e43h001kb  



 HDMexican peso, stocks rally after U.S. rate cut      WC426 words   PD18 March 2008   ET17:44   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited   
   LP(Recasts, adds detail)   

MEXICO CITY, March 18 (Reuters) - Mexican stocks and the peso currency extended gains gains on Tuesday after the U.S. Federal Reserve cut interest rates in the face of credit market turmoil and a deteriorating U.S. economy.   
   TDThe peso currency <MXN=> <MEX01> firmed a sharp 0.71 percent to 10.6780 per dollar, while the benchmark IPC stock index <.MXX> was up 1.1 percent to 29,368 points.   

The U.S. Federal Reserve cut its key interest rate by 75 basis points, rather than the 100 basis points many had expected in the financial markets.   

In debt trading, the benchmark 10-year government peso bond <MX10YT=RR> rose 0.206 of a point to bid at 101.781, pushing its bid yield down 3 basis points to 7.49 percent.   

Traders said the U.S. interest rate cut was making Mexican assets more attractive.   

The Fed's action on Tuesday widened the spread to 525 basis points between its key interest rate and Mexico's target rate. The Fed rate cut also increased the possibility that Mexico's central bank could follow suit, traders said.   

"With the idea of a global slowdown, led by the U.S., you would think Mexico would also ease interest rates in the short term," said Francisco Diez, director of emerging market trading at RCB in Toronto.   

Traders also said better-than-expected U.S. bank earnings eased fears about the extent of the U.S. credit crisis.   

In New York, quarterly earnings from  Goldman Sachs Group Inc and  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc topped estimates, bolstering optimism over U.S. financial companies following the collapse of investment bank  Bear Stearns and its fire-sale over the weekend.   

"Above all they are seeing solutions to the problems," said Alvaro Garcia, head of stock trading at  Merrill Lynch's Mexico City brokerage.   

In local stock trading, shares of  America Movil , Latin America's largest mobile telephone operator, rose 2.37 percent to 32.39 pesos. Its New York-traded stock climbed 4.11 percent to $60.53.   

Shares of holding company Carso Telecom <TELECOMA1.MX>, used by Mexican tycoon Carlos Slim to control fixed-line giant  Telefonos de Mexico (Telmex) <TELMEXL.MX> , were up 1.97 percent to 50.85 pesos.   

Mexican retailer Elektra saw its shares <ELEKTRA.MX> gain 2.94 percent to 280 pesos. (Reporting by Michael O'Boyle. Editing by Richard Satran)   
   RFMARKETS-MEXICO/ (UPDATE 2)|LANGEN|ABN|E|RBN|M|D|RNP   INibnk : Banking/Credit   NSm11 : Equity Markets | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | e1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REdevgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | mex : Mexico | usa : United States | camz : Central America | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | lamz : Latin America | namz : North America   IPCSTX | FRX | GVD | DBT | INVS | FIN | BSVC | FINS | FUND | .MX   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020080318e43i001ag  



 SEMARKETS &INVESTING   HDRisk appetite is muted ahead of Fed meeting.    BYBy CHRIS FLOOD    WC652 words   PD19 March 2008   SNFinancial Times   SCFTFT   EDAsia Ed1   PGPage 22   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPCommodity markets staged a recovery yesterday but trading was cautious ahead of a crucial interest rate setting meeting at the US Federal Reserve. After Monday's sharp sell-off, sentiment remained fragile and risk appetite was muted. 

Gold ended European trading 0.4 per cent firmer at Dollars 1,004.70 per troy ounce after trading between Dollars 994.75 and Dollars 1,012.30 as dealers speculated about the size of the expected rate cut and further measures that could be taken to shore up confidence across financial markets. 
   TD"Should the financial situation deteriorate further, holders of gold may liquidate to raise cash for margin calls or to safeguard their general portfolios," said James Steel of HSBC. "This could offset the impact of safe-haven buying." 

In energy markets, oil prices rebounded by more than Dollars 2 per barrel after Monday's sharp drop, the worst one-day percentage fall since the aftermath of the invasion of Iraq in April 2003. 

Nymex April West Texas Intermediate rose Dollars 2.12 to Dollars 107.80 a barrel after hitting a record Dollars 111.80 in Monday's highly volatile session. ICE May Brent gained Dollars 2.75 at Dollars 104.50 a barrel. 

"Heightened liquidity concerns on Wall Street this week have underscored what can happen to commodities in an environment of general risk reduction and profit-taking," said Katherine Spector of JPMorgan. "At these lofty prices, downward corrections in crude can be violent. (But) pent-up consumer buying interest should give the market pause in the mid-Dollars 80s, in the event of a meaningful correction." 

Traders noted that WTI forward prices rose between Dollars 2.50 and Dollars 2.80 a barrel yesterday and that the December 2016 contract traded above Dollars 102 a barrel, suggesting that confidence in long-term prices was intact. 

In Chicago the recovery in agricultural commodities was muted after Monday saw corn, wheat and soyabean prices drop by maximum daily trading limits. 

CBOT May corn rose 6 3/4 cents to Dollars 5.46 a bushel, CBOT May wheat added 5 cents at Dollars 11.36 1/2 a bushel but CBOT May soyabeans lost 1 3/4 cents at Dollars 13.01. 

Oil World warned that Argentina's decision to raise export taxes on soyabeans could have a major impact on prices. The consultancy expects a "severe" world supply deficit in 2007-08 with global production falling 6.9 per cent to 221.33m tonnes while consumption is expected to rise 6.3 per cent to 239.49m tonnes. Soyabean stocks are forecast to shrink by a quarter to 54.51m tonnes by the end of 2007-08. 

Platinum firmed 0.5 per cent at Dollars 1,990 an ounce amid renewed concerns about possible power supply interruptions in South Africa, where there have been rolling blackouts this week. Eskom, the state utility, has asked for the annual electricity price rise to be increased to 53 per cent from the 14.2 per cent agreed by regulators in December. 

Base metals trading was light but, after the sell-off in the previous session, prices staged a partial recovery, helped by rising oil and equity prices. 

Tin jumped 2.7 per cent to Dollars 20,750 a tonne after hitting a new record Dollars 20,950. 

Copper rose 2 per cent to Dollars 8,210 a tonne, supported by a fall of 925 tonnes in LME stocks. 

Aluminium rebounded 1.5 per cent to Dollars 2,992 a tonne in spite of a rise of 5,000 tonnes in LME stocks. 

Zinc gained 1.7 per cent at Dollars 2,520 a tonne while nickel rose 3 per cent to Dollars 30,300 a tonne and lead firmed 0.1 per cent at Dollars 2,922.5 a tonne. 
   RF20080319A122.189   INi81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | i814 : Banking   NSm14 : Commodity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | c33 : Contracts/Orders | c332 : Government Contracts | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | gdip : International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | m142 : Metals Markets | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTFT000020080319e43j0001s  



 SEMARKETS &INVESTING   HDCautious mood as calm returns.    BYBy LINDSAY WHIPP    WC382 words   PD19 March 2008   SNFinancial Times   SCFTFT   EDUSA Ed1   PGPage 24   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPA semblance of calm re-turned to Asian equity markets yesterday. Bargain hunters snapped up beaten-down banking stocks but the overall mood was cautious as investors awaited the US Federal Reserve's interest rate decision and earnings from the US banking sector. 

In Tokyo, the Nikkei rose 1.5 per cent to 11,964.16, while the broader Topix gained 1.2 per cent to 1,163.63. The advance was led by insurance companies, with the sub index gaining 5.9 per cent. 
   TDIn the banking sector, Mitsubishi UFJ gained 2.5 per cent to Y809 and Sumitomo Mitsui Financial managed a 0.2 per cent rise. 

Chinese stocks retreated when Wen Jiabao, the country's premier, promised to take forceful measures to fight inflation. After the market closed, China's central bank raised the bank reserve requirement ratio by 50 basis points to a record 15.5 per cent, the 15th increase since mid-2006. The Shanghai Composite fell 4 per cent to an eight-month closing low of 3,668.90. 

Tibet-related stocks were hit hard amid the unrest in the autonomous region ruled by China. Tibet Pharmaceutical fell by its daily limit of 10 per cent to Rmb11.39. 

Hong Kong had a brighter session although trading was choppy. The Hang Seng index rose 1.4 per cent to 21,384.61 and the index of China Enterprise stocks, or H shares, added 0.3 per cent. 

HSBC , the banking heavyweight, provided strong upward impetus as it gained 2 per cent to HKDollars 120.40. 

There were moderate gains elsewhere in the region. In Seoul, the Kospi index ended a volatile session 0.9 per cent higher at 1,588.75. The weighted index in Taipei gained 0.7 per cent to 8,057.82. Singapore saw banking sector gains. The Straits Times index rose 1.5 per cent to 2,833.58. 

In Sydney, National Australia Bank rose 3.3 per cent to ADollars 27.74 but the S&P/ASX 200 index ended flat at 5,086.1. 

In Mumbai, the BSE Sensex index reversed a sharp early decline to end 0.2 per cent higher at 14,833.46. 
   RF20080319U124.326   COsmfgpi : Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Incorporated   INi81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking   NSm11 : Equity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | c33 : Contracts/Orders | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter   REasiaz : Asia | jap : Japan | usa : United States | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTFT000020080319e43j0006r  



 HDUpdate 2: ECB Bini Smaghi: Monetary Policy Is For Price Stab.   WC782 words   PD18 March 2008   ET18:11   SNMarket News International   SCMARNEW   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008. Market News International, Inc.   
   TD
--Adds quotes on central bank independence, price stability mandates  

     SAO PAULO (MNI) - The European Central Bank's primary function in 
the current market crisis is to ease liquidity pressures, but interest 
rate policy should be reserved for the goal of maintaining price 
stability, ECB Executive Board member Lorenzo Bini Smaghi said here 
Tuesday. 

     Bini Smaghi, like his colleagues, drew the distinction between 
monetary policy and money market operations aimed at shoring up 
liquidity conditions. 

     "Our main responsibility in the current crisis is to keep the money 
market as liquid as possible, and we think we've been relatively 
successful in that," Bini Smaghi said. "But the instrument of interest 
rates should be aimed only at price stability." 

     Bini Smaghi dismissed the notion that the ECB should follow the 
Fed, which has cut interest rates several times since the fall and is 
widely expected to do so again after its monetary policy meeting, which 
starts later today. 

     "We are in a different situation in Europe than in the U.S. and we 
have different problems," Bini Smaghi said. 

     He also suggested that the ECB feels no need to come up with the 
wide range of liquidity instruments that the Fed has announced in an 
effort to stave off a banking crisis. "We are not in the race to follow 
the one who is most blunt in finding and innovating new instruments," he 
said. 

     Bini Smaghi was asked about published remarks by Dominique 
Strauss-Kahn, Managing Director of the International Monetary Fund, who 
said European countries should provide fiscal stimulus to avert a sharp 
slowdown.  

     "I think Dominique Strauss-Kahn got a little carried away," he 
replied.  Some countries in eurozone have room for fiscal stimulus and 
others do not, he said. 

     Bini Smaghi's remarks came in answer to questions after he gave a 
speech entitled, "The International Role of the Euro and its Potential 
for Latin America." 

     In it, he argued against the kind of currency pegs that many 
countries, including China and some of the Arab Gulf states, have vis a 
vis the dollar. They have surrendered a lot of autonomy in economic 
policy and risk internal stability, he warned. 

     "By making the exchange rate the main target for their policies, 
they have de facto given up their monetary policy and have imported 
monetary conditions prevailing in the country whose currency they are 
targeting, most often the United States," Bini Smaghi said. 
 
     "Given that underlying economic conditions in the United States 
will surely be different from those prevailing in these other countries, 
the monetary conditions that the latter will import are unlikely to be 
the most conducive to sustainable growth," he added. "Giving up the 
ability to conduct monetary policy is bound sooner or later to give rise 
to internal instability." 

     The eurozone's experience has proven that it is desirable for the 
world's major economies to have their own independent monetary policies 
attuned to their own internal conditions, Bini Smaghi said. 

     But this "doesn't seem to be wholly understood by all observers. In 
particular, some financial market participants and commentators are at 
times led to think that central banks are more or less bound to act in a 
similar way," he noted. 

     "In fact, in the last few months the various central banks have 
acted quite differently," he continued, "precisely because of the 
different situations prevailing in their respective economies." 

     He noted that while some have cut rates, others have raised them 
and still others - like the ECB - have kept them on hold.  "The world 
economy is becoming more integrated but at the same time also more 
affected by idiosyncratic shocks and diverging starting conditions, 
which may at times require different responses from the policy-makers 
around the world." 

     Bini Smaghi also pointedly noted that price stability "should be 
the primary objective of monetary policy"  and that it is "now enshrined 
in the statutes of most central banks around the world, with the 
exception of the Federal Reserve, whose mandate goes back to the end of 
the 1970s." 

     Bini Smaghi made the standard ECB argument that stable prices can 
be ensured without harming growth over the medium term. 

     "It seems to me that recent developments confirm that having a 
clear primary objective, which is also well-defined in quantitative 
terms, is the best way to anchor market expectations and to ensure a 
smoother adjustment to external shocks, of a real or financial nature," 
he said. 

     He went on to assert the importance of an independent central bank 
for the credibiity of monetary policy and, by extension, price 
stability. 

END 

[TOPICS: MT$$$$,MI$$$$,M$X$$$,MFX$$$,M$$EC$]
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecbnk : European Central Bank | ecat : Economic News | eec : European Union | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBMarket News International, Inc.   ANDocument MARNEW0020080318e43i000g4  



 HDFACTBOX-Global interest rates in 2008      WC930 words   PD19 March 2008   ET09:45   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited   
   LP LONDON, March 19 (Reuters) - The Federal Reserve slashed U.S. interest rates by a hefty three-quarters of a percentage point on Tuesday, to a three-year low of 2.25 percent.   

 The latest Fed move pushed the average rate set by central banks of the Group of Seven nations down to 3.1 percent from 3.25 percent.   
   TD
 The average rate set by 11 leading central banks -- the five that decide
monetary policy for the G7 nations plus six other major banks -- fell to 4.32
   

percent from 4.39 percent as a result.   

 For interest rate changes in 2007 please double click on [ID:nL0860845]   

 For interest rate changes in 2006 please double click on [ID:nL16106090]   

 The following table of average rates is aimed at reflecting the movement of
official policy rates during the economic cycle rather than actual borrowing
costs.   


                  2008
 MONTH: END06..END07..01...02...03...04...05...06...07...08...09...10...11...12
 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 G7 AVG: 3.65  3.70 3.40  3.35 3.1   -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    - 
 11 AVG: 4.00  4.52 4.39  4.41 4.32  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    - 
 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 FED     5.25  4.25  3.0*  -   2.25  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -  
 BOJ 1)  0.25  0.50   -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -  
 ECB     3.50  4.00   -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -  
 BOE     5.00  5.50   -   5.25  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -  
 BOC     4.25  4.25  4.0   -   3.5   -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -  
 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 SNB 2)  2.00  2.75   -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -  
 RBA     6.25  6.75   -   7.0  7.25  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -  
 RBNZ    7.25  8.25   -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -  
 RIKSBK  3.00  4.00   -   4.25  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -
 NORWAY  3.50  5.25   -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    - 
 DENMARK 3.75  4.25   -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -
 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 NO. OF RATE
 CHANGES: 2007: 34    3    3    3    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    - 
 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 MONTH: END06..END07..01...02...03...04...05...06...07...08...09...10...11...12
 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 EASTERN EUROPE:
 POLAND 4.00   5.00  5.25 5.5   -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -  
 HUNG   8.00   7.50   -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -  
 CZECH  2.50   3.50   -   3.75  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -  
 SLOVAK 4.75   4.25   -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -  
 RUSSIA 11.0   10.0   -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -  
 UKRAINE 8.5   8.0  10.0   -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -  
 ROMANIA 8.75  7.5   8.0  9.0   -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -  
 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 LATIN AMERICA:
 BRAZIL 18.00 11.25  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -  
 MEX 3)  7.0   7.5   -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -  
 CHILE   5.25  6.0  6.25  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -  
 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 ASIA
 KOREA   4.50  5.00  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -  
 THAI 4) 5.00  3.25  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -  
 PHIL    7.50  5.25 5.0   -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -  
 TAIWAN  2.75  3.375 -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -  
 INDS    9.75  8.00  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -  
 INDIA   6.00  6.00  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -  
 CHINA   6.12  7.47  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -  
 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 MIDDLE EAST/AFRICA:
 SARB    9.0  11.0   -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -  
 ISRAEL  4.5  4.25   -   3.75  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -  
 TURKEY 17.5  15.75 15.5 15.25 -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -  
 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 MONTH:DEC06..DEC07..01...02...03...04...05...06...07...08...09...10...11...12
   


 * Federal Reserve cut rates twice in January 2008 by 75 and 50 basis points
respectively   

 NOTES:   

 If rates change more than once a month, the last rate for that month is
listed.   

 1. On March 9, 2006 the BOJ said it would no longer set a target for the
amount of surplus funds in the money market, ending its "quantitative easing"
policy, and adopted a more conventional tactic of guiding the unsecured
overnight call rate. On July 14, 2006 it raised interest rates for the first
time in six years.   

 2. The  Swiss National Bank targets a range for the three-month Swiss franc
LIBOR rate. It currently targets roughly the midpoint of that range.   

 3. Table shows the Bank of Mexico's overnight lending rate. This replaces
monthly averages of yields on 28-day Cetes treasury bills at weekly open market
operations, as shown in past tables.    

 4. On Jan. 17, 2007 the Bank of Thailand set a new policy rate based on the
1-day repurchase rate <BOT15>, instead of the 14-day rate. The rate was set at
4.75 percent, compared with the market close that day of 4.9375 percent.
Comparison in the table for the end of 2006 shows the 14-day rate.
 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------   

 INTEREST RATES. (All the interest rates are policy rates identified by each
central bank):   

 GROUP OF SEVEN CENTRAL BANKS:   

 U.S FEDERAL RESERVE = federal funds rate   

 BANK OF JAPAN = overnight call rate   

 EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK = refi rate   

 BANK OF ENGLAND = bank rate   

 BANK OF CANADA = overnight funding rate   

 MAJOR CENTRAL BANKS:   

 SWISS NATIONAL BANK = 3-month Swiss Libor   

 RESERVE BANK OF AUSTRALIA = cash rate   

 RESERVE BANK OF NEW ZEALAND = cash rate   

 SWEDISH RIKSBANK = repo rate    

 NORGES BANK = deposit rate   

 DENMARKS NATIONALBANK = 2-week cd rate
   

 CENTRAL AND EASTERN EUROPE:   

 NATIONAL BANK OF POLAND (NBP): 28-day intervention rate   

NATIONAL BANK OF HUNGARY: (NBH) 2-week deposit rate   

 CZECH NATIONAL BANK (CNB): 2-week repo rate   

NATIONAL BANK OF SLOVAKIA (NBS): 2-week limit repo rate   

 CENTRAL BANK OF RUSSIAN FEDERATION (CBR): refinancing rate    

 NATIONAL BANK OF UKRAINE (NBU): discount rate   

NATIONAL BANK OF ROMANIA (NBR): monetary policy rate
    

 LATIN AMERICA:   

 CENTRAL BANK OF BRASIL (BCB): Selic rate   

 CENTRAL BANK OF CHILE (BCC): Discount rate   

 BANK OF MEXICO: Overnight lending rate   

 ASIA:   

 BANK OF KOREA: Overnight call rate   

 BANK OF THAILAND: 1-day repurchase (repo) rate. End-05 and end-06
comparisons are for the 14-day repo rate (see note 4 above)   

 CENTRAL BANK OF PHILIPPINES: Overnight borrowing rate   

 CENTRAL BANK OF CHINA (TAIWAN): Discount rate   

 BANK INDONESIA: Bank Indonesia (BI) reference rate   

 RESERVE BANK OF INDIA: Reverse repo rate   

 PEOPLE'S BANK OF CHINA: One-year yuan lending rate   

 MIDDLE EAST/AFRICA:   

 SOUTH AFRICAN RESERVE BANK: Repurchase rate   

 BANK OF ISRAEL: Short-term lending rate   

CENTRAL BANK OF TURKEY: Overnight borrowing   

 (editing by David Stamp)

   
   RFGLOBAL-RATES/2008 (FACTBOX)|LANGEN|Table|ABN|M|E|U|NAT|D|CANT|J|UKI|RNP|DNP|PTD   NSe1201 : Central Bank Intervention | ecbnk : European Central Bank | gseven : Group of Seven | m131 : Money Markets | e1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | eec : European Union | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations   REasiaz : Asia | austr : Australia | eurz : Europe | jap : Japan | nz : New Zealand | uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | weurz : Western Europe | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | easiaz : Eastern Asia | eecz : European Union Countries | namz : North America   IPCG7 | CEN | MCE | INT | MMT | DBT | FRX | FED | BOJ | ECB | BOE | SNB | GLOBAL/INT | EMBG:DBT | EMBG:GLOBAL/INT | embargokeyE2E2   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020080322e43j0004h  



 HDEURO GOVT-Bonds flat after equities rally on U.S. rate cut   BYBy George Matlock      WC556 words   PD19 March 2008   ET08:17   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited   
   LPLONDON, March 19 (Reuters) - Euro zone government bond prices were little changed on Wednesday after equities rallied in the wake of a hefty U.S. interest rate cut late on Tuesday, and supported by firm U.S. Treasuries in Asian trading.

The U.S. Federal Reserve cut its Federal funds rate by 75 basis points to 2.25 percent, its lowest level since February 2005, in a move designed to hold off a recession.
   TDBut the market had widely expected a full 100 basis points rate cut on Tuesday <FEDWATCH>.

Nevertheless, Wall Street rallied -- the highly leveraged stocks of the technology-rich Nasdaq index <.IXIC> jumped 4.19 percent while the broader S&P 500 index <.GSPC> rose 4.24 percent.

Credit markets, the intended beneficiary of the rate cut, also showed a thumbs-up to the monetary largesse.

European credit spreads tightened further on Wednesday as global stock markets rose, including the investment-grade Markit iTraxx Europe index <ITRAC5EA=GFI> and iTraxx Crossover index of mostly "junk"-related credits <ITCRS5EA=GFI>.

FOCUS ON EQUITIES

With a lack of significant euro zone data on the blocks, attention will remain on how equities perform in Europe. Euro zone bourses opened higher <.FTEU3>.

"The Federal Reserve cut rates by 75 basis points, less than the market expected, with two members dissenting in favour of an even smaller cut, and flagged concerns about rising inflation expectations," said Marco Annunziata, an economist at UniCredit Markets & Investment Banking in Milan.

"This signals that the Fed and the U.S. administration intend to switch gears, slowing the pace of rate cuts," he added.

At 0835 GMT, the June Bund future <FGBLc1> was flat at 117.59 compared with the settlement close on Tuesday.

The interest rate-sensitive two-year Schatz yield <EU2YT=RR> was at 3.127 percent. On Monday, the yield hit 2.905 percent intraday -- its lowest level in more than two years.

The 10-year Bund yield <EU10YT=RR> was at 3.76 percent, flat on the day.

On Monday, the 10-year Bund yield reached an intraday low of 3.669 percent - its lowest level since mid-December 2006.

"The Fed is trying to separate its perspective on the ongoing liquidity and capital crunch problems from its macroeconomic concerns about inflation. A rate cut doesn't solve the liquidity problem anyway, as the past eight months show," said a trader in London.

Late on Tuesday, European Central Bank Governing Council member Axel Weber said the central bank will do whatever is needed to keep inflation in check. For more see [ID:nDEG003384].

"But the front end of the euro debt curve is suffering the most today because there is no sign that the ECB wants to cut rates soon," the dealer said.

"Weber's comments overnight make it clear he is unwilling to see measures to help the local banking sector in this crisis, and with the Fed now perceived to be nearing the floor of its rate cut cycle, you don't want to be heavy in short-dated bonds. They are vulnerable to a vicious correction," he said. (Editing by Stephen Nisbet)
   RFMARKETS-BONDS-EURO (UPDATE 1)|LANGEN|ABN|M|D|RBN|RNP|DNP|PTD|PMF   NSe52 : Euro Zone/Currency | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | e1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REaust : Austria | belg : Belgium | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | greece : Greece | ire : Ireland | neth : Netherlands | uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | weurz : Western Europe | balkz : Balkan States | benluxz : Benelux Countries | medz : Mediterranean | namz : North America   IPCDBT | EUR | FRX | EU | GVD | GVD/EUR   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020080319e43j000dn  



 HDUPDATE 1- Bank of Canada watches markets closely      WC305 words   PD17 March 2008   ET15:41   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited   
   LP(Adds background)   

OTTAWA, March 17 (Reuters) - The  Bank of Canada is keeping a close watch on turbulent financial markets in case it needs to take action again, it said on Monday, in the wake of the U.S. Federal Reserve's emergency measures on Sunday.   
   TD"The  Bank of Canada continues to monitor financial market developments closely," Jeremy Harrison, senior media relations officer at the central bank, told Reuters in an email.   

The  Bank of Canada had joined the Fed and other central banks last week and in December in coordinated action to boost liquidity in shaky credit markets.   

As part of the latest wave of coordinated action, the  Bank of Canada will lend a total of C$4 billion to market players in two 28-day purchase and resale agreements. The first operation will take place Thursday and the second on April 3.   

The bank's next interest rate decision is on April 22.   

The turmoil in world financial markets worsened on Monday after the U.S. Federal Reserve expanded its lending to securities firms on Sunday for the first time since the Great Depression and  JPMorgan Chase & Co agreed to take over its beleaguered rival  Bear Stearns .   

In a speech last week,  Bank of Canada Governor Mark Carney said Canadian money markets were not under the same pressure as those in the United States and elsewhere.   

He said the bank's intervention had helped bring the overnight interest rate close to the bank's target of 3.5 percent. But liquidity in term money markets is higher than historical norms, despite improvements since December, Carney said. (Reporting by Louise Egan; Editing by Bernadette Baum)   
   RFCANADA-BANKOFCANADA/ (UPDATE 1)|LANGEN|CANT|ABN|C|D|E|M|O|U|MTL|GRO|SOF|OIL|DNP   INibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | m131 : Money Markets | ecat : Economic News | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REcana : Canada | usa : United States | namz : North America   IPCCEN | MCE | PLCY | INT | GVD | DBT | MMT | FRX | STIR | BNK | FIN | DFIN | FUND | INVS | CPX | EMBG:DBT | EMBG:PLCY | embargokeyE1R1:1   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020080317e43h001wz  



 HDUS TREASURY OUTLOOK-Financial company worries to set tone      BYBy Chris Reese      WC458 words   PD19 March 2008   ET21:29   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited   
   LPNEW YORK, March 19 (Reuters) - U.S. Treasury debt prices are likely to again take direction from stocks on Thursday with investors keeping a wary eye out for more potentially bad, or good, news about the state of U.S. financial companies.   

The state of U.S. financial companies, and what any potential downfall of a big investment house might mean for the U.S. economy, has dominated the news this week since  JPMorgan Chase & Co on Sunday offered to buy  Bear Stearns Cos Inc, with the backing of the Federal Reserve.   
   TDBonds and stocks have fluctuated wildly this week according to whether investors think the deal will help put the economy back on track, or whether it is a harbinger of darker troubles.   

Economic data and even an aggressive interest rate cut by the Federal Reserve on Wednesday have taken a back seat when it comes to market moves, and no Fed officials are scheduled to speak on Thursday during the traditional blackout period surrounding policy meetings.   

"There is still uncertainty and concern about another shoe to drop," said Michael Wallace, global market strategist for Action Economics in San Francisco.   

Investors will likely move to square positions ahead of the long weekend, which could be either good or bad for bonds in an abbreviated session ahead of U.S. market closures for the Good Friday holiday.   

But at least one investment house says there are signs a government debt rally that has held sway since June may be nearing an end.   

"Buried in the bad craziness that is a present-day affliction of the U.S. fixed income markets, we see some first tentative signs of spring," said William O'Donnell, head of U.S. interest rate strategy at UBS Securities in Stamford, Connecticut.   

Although the vagaries of the financial sector are likely to dominate bond trading, there are some scheduled data that could sway bond trade, if only momentarily, on Thursday.   

The Conference Board will release its leading economic indicators on Thursday at 10:00 a.m. Eastern time (1400 GMT), while the Philadelphia Fed will release its U.S. Mid-Atlantic business activity index for March at the same time.   

Ahead of that, the Labor Department will put its figures on the number of U.S. workers that applied for unemployment benefits in the latest week at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time (1230 GMT).   

The Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association is recommending an early Treasuries market close at 2:00 p.m. Eastern time (1800 GMT) on Thursday. (Reporting by Chris Reese; Editing by Chizu Nomiyama)   
   RFMARKETS-BONDS-OUTLOOK|LANGEN|ABN|D|E|RBN|U|MNI|M   COberstn : The Bear Stearns Companies LLC   INi814 : Banking | i831 : Financial Investments | i83101 : Investment Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | iinv : Investing/Securities   NSe1122 : Mortgage Applications/Refinancing | e1202 : Interest Rates | m131 : Money Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCMMT | DBT | GVD | AGN | MTG | STIR | MCE | MUNI | US/O | EMBG:DBT | embargokeyE1   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020080322e43j000h2  



 HDUS SWAPS-Spreads shrink on Fed steps,  JPMorgan/Bear plan      BYBy Richard Leong      WC320 words   PD17 March 2008   ET16:30   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited   
   LP(Updates with late market action, adds table)   

NEW YORK, March 17 (Reuters) - Yield spreads on U.S. interest rate swaps over Treasuries shrank on Monday on improved investor confidence, after fresh moves from the Federal Reserve over the weekend to boost credit availability.   
   TDAnxiety over counterparty risk in the interest-rate derivatives market also subsided, and pushed the two-year swap spread to its tightest level since mid-February, following news of  JPMorgan Chase & Co.'s plan to acquire struggling investment bank  Bear Stearns , analysts said.   

The latest developments seem "to reassure the market that the Fed is proactive in preventing systemic risk to spiral out of control," said Fidelio Tata, head of interest- rate derivatives strategy at RBS Greenwich Capital in Greenwich, Connecticut.   

On Sunday, the Fed cut its discount rate by 25 basis points to 3.25 percent and approved special financing to allow  JPMorgan to buy  Bear Stearns.

The Fed launched a new facility that would let U.S. primary dealers, which are mainly investment banks, tap the discount window in a tool not used since the Great Depression. See [ID:nN16640873]   

The spread on two-year interest-rate swaps over Treasuries, which contracts with lower risk aversion, shrank to 82.00 basis points from 88.25 basis points late on Friday.   

Earlier this month, the exchange of two-year fixed-rate and floating-rate payments cost a record 112.50 basis points.   

Cost of longer cash-flow exchanges also fell. The 10-year swap spread narrowed to 64.50 basis points from 70.50 basis points late Friday .   

Thirty-year swap spread tightened to 31.50 basis points, its tightest since November 2004, versus 39.75 basis points late on Friday. (Reporting by Richard Leong; Editing by Andrea Ricci)   
   RFMARKETS-SWAPS (UPDATE 2)|LANGEN|Table|ABN|M|D|MNI   COcnyc : JPMorgan Chase & Co.   INibnk : Banking/Credit   NSc181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | e1202 : Interest Rates | m131 : Money Markets | m15 : Derivative Securities | c18 : Ownership Changes | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCFIN | INT | MCE | DBT | DRV | STIR | MMT | MUNI | SWP/ | EMBG:DBT | EMBG:SWP/ | embargokeyE2E2E2   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020080320e43h00144  



 HDANALYSIS-Fed medicine slowly trickles to ailing Main Street      BYBy Emily Kaiser      WC831 words   PD18 March 2008   ET20:51   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited   
   LP WASHINGTON, March 18 (Reuters) - While the U.S. Federal Reserve pours cash on wobbly Wall Street by the billions, Main Street keeps sinking, and the central bank's medicine is only slowly trickling down.   
   TD No one is ready to declare the global financial crisis over, but there are tentative signs that the Fed's efforts, including Tuesday's three-quarters of a percentage point interest rate cut, are starting to patch up investor confidence.   

 Even in the battered U.S. housing sector, some economists are seeing glimmers of hope that both new construction and prices have fallen far enough to begin rebalancing supply and demand.   

 But at the same time, consumer confidence remains in tatters, and it may be months before it rebounds which is bad news for the consumer-dependent U.S. economy.   

 The Fed has lowered the benchmark overnight lending rate six times since mid-September as it scrambles to prop up the economy, yet consumers are not seeing the full benefit in their borrowing costs as banks crack down on mortgages, credit cards and auto loans.   

 FIRST, THE GOOD NEWS.   

 Data on Tuesday showed further declines in housing starts and permits, taking them to levels seen in previous recessions. That is cause for cautious optimism that they do not have much further to fall, said Bernard Baumohl, managing director at the Economic Outlook Group.   

 "Look, no one is uncorking champaign bottles yet. We're far from celebrating any recovery in housing. But there are some incipient signs that the worst in housing could be behind us," he wrote in a note to clients.   

 Michael Darda, an economist with MKM Partners LLC, noted that some closely watched gauges of credit market health, such as swaps and mortgage spreads, appeared to be on the mend.   

 "This is the best evidence we have so far that the Fed's inventive measures are beginning to get some traction," he said. "If recent narrowing holds, we would expect to see improvement in a broad swath of credit markets and a strong advance in equity prices."   

 Better-than-expected earnings reports from key investment banks  Goldman Sachs Group  and  Lehman Brothers Holdings  helped to lift investors' moods on Tuesday, pushing U.S. stocks up sharply, after the bleak weekend news that investment bank  Bear Stearns  had agreed to a bargain-basement buyout of $2 per share.   

 Big banks appear to be coming to grips with the scale of losses incurred from the U.S. housing meltdown and subsequent credit contraction. They have written off more than $200 billion in losses, according to U.S. Treasury Department estimates, though the final tally may reach $800 billion, an International Monetary Fund official said this week.   

 NOW FOR THE BAD NEWS.   

 Cleaning up banks' balance sheets will go a long way toward restoring faith in the financial markets. Repairing household balance sheets will take much longer, and that suggests consumer spending will be constrained for some time.   

 Consumer confidence weakened further in early March. Richard Curtin, director of the Reuters/University of Michigan Surveys of Consumers said there was "nearly unanimous agreement" among consumers that the economy was in recession.   

 The Fed is also acutely aware of strains on consumers. In its closely watched statement announcing Tuesday's interest rate decision, the Fed mentioned its concerns about consumer spending before it spoke of financial market stress. In its Jan. 30 statement, markets came first.   

Interest rate cuts have never been a quick fix. Indeed, they typically take a good six months to begin filtering through to the broader economy. Tuesday marks six months to the day since the Fed began its latest easing cycle.   

 So far, the effect on consumers' borrowing costs has been mixed at best as lenders tighten credit terms for fear of adding to the already towering pile of bad debts.   

 Fed data shows that the average interest rate on consumer loans stood at 4.55 percent in January, the most recent month for which the figure was available. That is above the 4.48 average recorded in September.   

 In addition, the net wealth of U.S. households fell for the first time in five years during the fourth quarter of last year, while the presonal savings rate dipped into negative territory in January.   

 The one bright side for consumers is that mortgage rates have begun to retreat in recent days after jumping in February amid another bout of credit aversion. The average rate on a 30-year mortgage with no upfront points fell to 5-3/4 percent on Monday, according to BestInfo Inc. On Sept. 17, the day before the Fed's first rate cut, it was at 6-1/2 percent.  (Additional reporting by Ros Krasny in Chicago; editing by Clive McKeef)      
   RFUSA-ECONOMY/FED (ANALYSIS)|LANGEN|ABN|C|D|E|M|O|U|MTL|GRO|SOF|OIL|MNI|UKI|CANT|AUF|J|Z|ABX|BNX   INicre : Construction/Real Estate   NSe1122 : Mortgage Applications/Refinancing | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | e1202 : Interest Rates | m131 : Money Markets | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCWASH | FED | MCE | INT | STIR | FIN | BNK | MTG | DBT | MMT | REA | REAM | RET | EMBG:DBT | embargokeyE1E1   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020080321e43i000vt  



 HD Federal Reserve  taking rarely-used steps to steady shaky financial sector      BYBy JEANNINE AVERSA      CRAP Economics Writer   WC1,185 words   PD17 March 2008   ET21:52   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPWASHINGTON (AP) - The Federal Reserve is primed to aggressively cut a key interest rate even lower on Tuesday, racing to contain spreading financial fires that threaten an economic meltdown.   

President George W. Bush declared "we're in challenging times" and huddled Monday with top economic officials -- including Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke, Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson and Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman Christopher Cox.   
   TDOn Wall Street investors were still skittish. The Dow Jones industrials, in an erratic session, closed up 21.16 points, after having plunged nearly 200 points early in the day. Other stock indexes fell.   

With the quick collapse of the investment bank  Bear Stearns, fears are mounting about whether other financial companies may fall. Many believe the country has already sunk into recession and all the problems -- if not contained -- will deepen and prolong the pain.   

"The Fed is on high alert -- something you don't see but once every quarter century; maybe, in this case, since the Great Depression. This is a very unusual period," said Mark Zandi, chief economist at  Moody's Economy.com.   

That's because the Fed is having to fight multiple battles at the same time: a housing collapse, a severe credit crunch and Wall Street turmoil that threatens the stability of the entire U.S. financial system. All those problems feed on each other, creating a vicious cycle that can be hard for the Fed and other Washington policymakers to break. The weight of those troubles is like a millstone on the ailing economy.   

"Now the issue is fighting the deeper recession," said Brian Bethune, economist at Global Insight. "It has kind of moved to another level. The fires are spreading," he said.   

To limit the damage, Bernanke and his colleagues may ratchet down a key interest rate, now at 3 percent, by as much as a full percentage point, to 2 percent, which would put that rate at the lowest it has been since late 2004. Because that rate affects a wide range of rates charged to millions of consumer and businesses, it is the Fed's most potent tool for reviving economic activity.   

If that happens, commercial banks' prime lending rate on certain credit cards, home equity lines of credit and other loans would drop by a corresponding amount to 5 percent, from 6 percent currently. The Fed's goal, since embarking on a rate-cutting campaign in September, is to induce people and businesses to boost spending, thus bolstering the economy.   

However, with the panicky mind-set that has swept over investors since last summer, credit -- even at a lower cost -- has become harder and harder to get as financial institutions, which racked up huge losses due to soured investments in mortgage-linked securities, became increasingly wary of lending and hoarded cash. So the Fed took a series of other unconventional maneuvers to deal with those problems and to restore confidence.   

The Fed, in a bold action on Sunday, agreed for the first time to let big investment houses get emergency loans directly from the central bank. The new lending facility -- similar to one that's been available to commercial banks for years -- started Monday and will continue for at least six months. It marked the broadest use of the Fed's lending authority since the 1930s.   

Also Sunday, the Fed approved a $30 billion (euro19.02 billion) credit line to engineer the takeover of  Bear Stearns.

Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid was critical. "The Federal Reserve's latest actions appear to shift large risks to taxpayers, who may find themselves on the hook for billions in worthless securities."   

Countered Paulson: " Bear Stearns had a liquidity crisis, and so we felt it was very important that this be resolved as a way to minimize impact on our economy ... This is the right outcome."   

Democrats accused Bush of not doing enough to relieve the broader economic situation.   

"Now we are in the soup and we better get ourselves out of it before the consequences get drastic," Democratic presidential contender Hillary Rodham Clinton told reporters. Barack Obama said: "History will not judge President Bush kindly for his failure to act in a way that could've prevented or alleviated this economic crisis."   

House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, who is advocating extending unemployment benefits and other relief measures, said "more must be done to begin to reverse the economic mismanagement of the past seven years."   

The new lending facility -- described as a cousin to the Fed's emergency lending "discount window" for banks -- is geared to give financially-squeezed major investment houses a source of short-term cash on a regular basis.   

That's important because those big investment houses have key roles in the financial system. If one fails or is having difficulty, it could put the whole financial system in jeopardy. These big firms have complex relationships with many players in the system, including hedge funds, commercial banks and others.   

A range of collateral -- including investment-grade mortgage backed securities -- will be accepted to back the overnight loans. The Fed also on Sunday lowered its emergency lending rate to banks -- and now to big investment houses -- by a quarter-point to 3.25 percent.   

"These steps will provide financial institutions with greater assurance of access to funds," Bernanke told reporters in a conference call Sunday evening. Bernanke, a scholar of the Great Depression, has been stretching for innovative ways to deal with the credit and financial crises.   

The Fed has the power "in unusual and exigent circumstances" to expand emergency lending to other types of companies and even to individuals if they are unable to secure "adequate credit" from other banking institutions. Thus, economists said there's the possibility that -- if current relief maneuvers weren't sufficient -- the Fed could extend emergency credit to a wider variety of recipients.   

The Fed acted on Sunday just after  JPMorgan Chase & Co. agreed to buy rival  Bear Stearns Cos. for $236.2 million (euro149.78 million) in a deal that represents a stunning collapse for one of the world's largest and most venerable investment houses. Just on Friday the Fed had raced to provide emergency financing to cash-strapped  Bear Stearns through  JPMorgan. Days earlier the Fed announced a set of other unconventional steps to thaw out a credit market in danger of freezing shut.   

The flurry of unconventional steps may risk putting the public into a more skittish frame of mind, some said.   

"It all kind of sends a conflicting message -- making people more nervous," said Bethune. "Why is the Fed every week coming out with another major injection of liquidity or a bailout? What are they doing in Washington?"   

In communicating with Wall Street and Main Street, sometimes fewer public utterances by Fed officials may be prudent during turbulent times. "Some talk is best left with your wife over a glass of wine in the evening," Bethune said. "Talking publicly sometimes is not the way to go."   

--------   

Associated Press writer Ben Feller contributed to this report.   
   RF7   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | gpol : Domestic Politics | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPCtagpf1wcat | sel----- | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | NA FIN US Fed Credit Crisis | D8VFDL800   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020080317e43h0001d  



 HDGold plummets after lower-than-expected  Federal Reserve interest rate  cut      BYBy STEVENSON JACOBS      CRAP Business Writer   WC701 words   PD19 March 2008   ET22:14   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPNEW YORK (AP) - Gold futures had their worst day in nearly two years Wednesday, beaten down after a smaller-than-expected interest rate cut bolstered the dollar and diminished the metal's appeal as a hedge against inflation.   

Other commodities also traded lower, with crude oil, silver, copper and agriculture futures all falling sharply as part of a broad commodities sell-off.   
   TDThe Federal Reserve on Tuesday lowered interest rates for the sixth time since September, moving aggressively to counter growing turmoil in financial markets that led to the near-collapse of investment bank  Bear Stearns Cos. The Fed cut its benchmark federal funds rate by three-fourths of a percentage point, helping to propel the Dow Jones industrials up 420 points Tuesday.   

But the Fed's move fell short of the full one-point cut many investors had hoped for, propping up the battered dollar Wednesday and sparking a huge sell-off of hard assets from heating oil to platinum and soybeans.   

"Things turned really ugly, really fast in the commodities complex today," Jon Nadler, analyst with Kitco Bullion Dealers in Montreal, said in a note. "Once the dollar started eaking out small gains this morning and crude oil started losing serious ground, the sell-off in precious metals gathered steam and left a wide swath of damage in its wake."   

Gold for April delivery plunged $59 to settle at $945.30 Wednesday on the  New York Mercantile Exchange. The 5.9 percent decline was the largest one-day loss since June 2006. Gold soared to an all-time high of $1,033.90 Monday, following the Fed-approved bailout of  Bear Stearns by  JPMorgan Chase & Co.

"It's certainly a correction," said James Steel, precious metals analyst with  HSBC in New York. "The rate cut was less than expected and there seems to be some relaxation in credit risk concerns today, so that's hurting gold."   

Prior to the rate cut, gold had gained almost 20 percent this year, driven by U.S. recession fears, record high crude oil prices and a tumbling dollar. Some gold watchers in recent days even began whispering about $2,000 gold, a level approaching the metal's inflation-adjusted high of 1980. But it's too early to tell whether the metal's decline signals a protracted correction or not, analysts say.   

"We'll have to see where it bottoms out, but you can't by any means believe the whole credit market issue has been resolved, and a resurfacing of worries there would buoy gold," Steel said.   

Other precious metals also traded sharply lower Wednesday. Silver for May delivery lost $1.525 to settle at $18.445 an ounce on the Nymex, while May copper dropped 11.30 cents to settle at $3.6335 a pound.   

In energy markets, oil prices fell sharply Wednesday after the U.S. government released data suggesting demand for petroleum products may be falling amid high oil and gasoline prices.   

Light, sweet crude for April delivery fell $4.94 to settle at $104.48 a barrel on the Nymex. It was the largest one-day price drop for a front-month oil contract since 1991. The April contract expired at the end of Wednesday's session, and trading was much heavier in May oil futures, which fell $5.96 to settle at $102.54 a barrel on the Nymex.   

Other energy futures also fell. April gasoline futures fell 9.97 cents to settle at $2.5603 a gallon on the Nymex, and April heating oil futures fell 12.12 cents to settle at $3.0167 a gallon.   

The drop in metals and energy futures quickly spread to agriculture products, which fell sharply after the dollar's rise against the euro. Wheat, corn and soybean futures all fell the daily price limit in Chicago.   

Wheat for May delivery lost 90 cents to settle at $10.74 a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade, while May corn fell 20 cents to settle at $5.2725 a bushel. May soybeans declined 50 cents to settle at $12.57 a bushel.   
   RF5   COberstn : The Bear Stearns Companies LLC   INi814 : Banking | i831 : Financial Investments | i83101 : Investment Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | iinv : Investing/Securities   NSm14 : Commodity Markets | m143 : Energy Markets | m15 : Derivative Securities | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mcroil : Crude Oil Markets | e1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagapf | selapfin | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | APFN Commodities Review | D8VGO5SO2   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020080319e43j002eo  



 HDAnalysis: Fed's Bold Moves Have Risks      BYBy JEANNINE AVERSA      CRAP Economics Writer   WC1,160 words   PD18 March 2008   ET22:04   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPWASHINGTON (AP) - There's a risk in Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke's bold moves of late.   

If recent history is any guide, the euphoria that met the Fed's three-quarter-point reduction to a key interest rate Tuesday could be short-lived. With a string of urgent and aggressive actions, the Fed itself could end up feeding the panicky mind-set that it so desperately wants to calm.   
   TDEven inside the Fed there was disagreement about just how much the key interest rate -- its most potent tool in dealing with economic trouble -- should be lowered.   

Two Fed members dissented, preferring a smaller cut, while Bernanke and seven others prevailed with a more powerful three-quarter-point one. Cuts of this size are pretty infrequent. Bernanke, in an emergency session in January, ordered one -- making for the single-biggest reduction in more than two decades.   

Wall Street was ebullient Tuesday -- soaring 420 points -- even as it had hoped for greater relief -- a rare reduction of one percentage point. Yet, one wonders just how long the good feeling will last. Wall Street has been largely engulfed in turmoil since last year -- swinging wildly at times between relief and panic.   

In a bid to revive a sagging economy, the Fed dropped its key rate to 2.25 percent. In turn, the prime lendng rate for millions of consumers and businesses fell by a corresponding amount, to 5.25 percent. Both are the lowest since late 2004. It held the door open to the possibility that rates would fall even lower in the months ahead.   

The Fed's action was the latest in a series of extraordinary moves -- many in just the past few days and weeks -- that the Fed has resorted to as it seeks to prevent a financial catastrophe that could plunge the country into a deep and painful recession.   

Yet, it raises the question: can the Fed in its very efforts to contain spreading credit and financial crises, end up also spreading fear?   

"I think it is true that Federal Reserve actions coming closely one after the other in the last few weeks -- while no doubt are helpful for the economy -- they carry with them a risk that people will perceive them as involving some slight desperation," said Marvin Goodfriend, economics professor at the Carnegie Mellon University.   

The Fed's words -- not just its actions -- matter a lot and can color how people view the economy and their own financial fortunes.   

On Tuesday, the Fed was blunt in its assessment that the country's economic health has worsened. "The outlook for economic activity has weakened further," the Fed said. "Financial markets remain under considerable stress and the tightening of credit conditions and the deepening of the housing contraction are likely to weigh on economic growth over the next few quarters."   

Such words can make people more nervous. The Fed walks a fine line between trying to give the public an accurate picture of what is going on and at the same time not spooking them -- or investors.   

"Saying nothing could also trigger a panic as well" and undermine the Fed's credibility, said Victor Li, an economics professor at the Villanova School of Business. "People would be more nervous if the Fed sat back and did nothing."   

Still, the Fed's rate-cutting campaign, which started in September, and turned much more forceful in January, hasn't put people into a better frame of mind where they are more willing to spend. Instead, they have hunkered down, adding to the economy's problems. "Maybe the public is saying, the Fed can't really do much about the impending recession," Li said.   

The Fed's lifelines -- through interest rate cuts and other moves -- probably won't pull the country back from the brink of its first recession since 2001. Many believe the country has slipped into recession.   

With jobs harder to come by, most people probably will feel skittish for a while. Employers slashed 63,000 jobs in February, the most in five years. It was the second month in a row of nationwide job losses. The unemployment rate, now at 4.8 percent, is expected to rise to around 5.5 percent later this year.   

And, many believe the market's volatility will persist for some time, too.   

"Volatility is to be expected. You'll have good new one day, bad news another day. The market is trying to find a stable point in being buffeted by good and bad revelations of matters involving credit," Goodfriend said.   

Just a week ago, Wall Street soared by nearly 417 points -- the biggest rally since 2002 -- when the Fed unveiled a new and innovative way to deal with the worsening credit crunch, -- letting big Wall Street firms borrow up to $200 billion in ultra-safe and much-in-demand Treasury securities and pledge harder-to-sell mortgage securities as collateral. The euphoria, however, was short-lived, and investors fell back into a nervous funk.   

A few days later, the Fed, in a rare use of authority dating back to the Depression-era days of the 1930s, backed a rescue package of venerable investment bank  Bear Stearns, which teetered on the brink of collapse. Wall Street, however, tumbled by nearly 195 points as the Fed's action stoked concerns about the severity of credit troubles and whether other big financial firms might falter.   

Two days after that -- on Sunday -- the Fed took more bold actions -- including backing  JP Morgan's takeover of  Bear Stearns and guaranteeing up to $30 billion in troubled mortgages and other assets that brought about  Bear Stearns' downfall. Critics contend it's akin to a government bailout.   

The Fed also Sunday agreed to let big investment houses get emergency loans directly from the central bank for the first time. The new lending facility -- similar to one that's been available to commercial banks for years -- started Monday and will continue for at least six months. The following morning, stocks around the world fell sharply. Investors remained skittish in the United States, although the Dow Jones managed to finish the day up slightly.   

The panicky mind-set that has swept over investors since last summer has made credit become harder and harder to get. Financial institutions, which racked up huge losses due to soured investments in mortgage-linked securities, became increasingly wary of lending and hoarded cash.   

"The menacing beast is not a recession but the credit crisis," said Greg McBride, senior financial analyst at Bankrate.com. "Recessions happen and we'll get through them particularly with the Fed's rate cuts and the government's stimulus (of tax rebates and tax breaks). But without properly functioning credit markets, the economy can't grow. It is like starving a fire of oxygen."   

------   

EDITOR'S NOTE -- Jeannine Aversa has covered economics for The Associated Press since 1999.   
   RF7   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagpf1apon | sel----- | catw | 1310   IPDWashington | Fed Feeding the Panic | D8VG2TRO0   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020080318e43i00319  



 HDFed cuts rates in most aggressive action in quarter-century; Wall Street surges   BYBy MARTIN CRUTSINGER      CRAP Economics Writer   WC1,166 words   PD18 March 2008   ET23:28   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPWASHINGTON (AP) - Ben Bernanke's Federal Reserve is proving it's not afraid to move aggressively.

Criticized for being too tentative after the credit crisis first erupted last August, Chairman Bernanke and his central bank colleagues have significantly picked up the pace since the turn of the year. They have delivered a series of hefty interest rate cuts and taken other unprecedented actions to supply money to cash-strapped financial institutions.
   TDThe Fed on Tuesday slashed a key interest rate by three-quarters of a point, wrapping up its most aggressive two months of rate cuts in a quarter-century.

The strong action certainly boosted spirits on Wall Street, pushing the Dow Jones industrial average up by 420.41 points in its biggest one-day point gain in five years. Investors took heart that the central bank will do whatever it can to keep the country out of a recession.

The latest Fed move brought the federal funds rate -- the interest that banks charge each other -- down to 2.25 percent, the lowest since late 2004.

That's important far beyond bank boardrooms. The reduction triggered announcements from commercial banks that they were cutting their prime lending rate to 5.25 percent from 6 percent. This rate is the benchmark for millions of business and consumer loans.

The Fed action was designed to lower borrowing costs and boost spending by consumers and businesses and thus increase economic activity. Economic growth slowed to a near standstill in the final three months of last year as the nation was hit by a series of blows including the credit crunch, a prolonged housing slump, rising unemployment and surging energy prices.

The Federal Reserve has now cut its funds rate by three-fourths of a percentage point twice this year. The first occurred on Jan. 22 after an emergency meeting and was followed by a half-point cut at a regular meeting on Jan. 30. The three rate cuts over the course of two months represent the most aggressive Fed credit easing since mid-1982 when the Paul Volcker-led Fed was working to get the country out of a deep recession.

Bernanke and his colleagues have now cut the funds rate six times since last September, with the reductions becoming more aggressive since January as the central bank has faced growing turmoil in global financial markets.

The Fed also announced Tuesday that it was reducing its discount rate, the interest it charges to make direct loans to banks, by a similar three-quarters of a point, pushing this rate down to 2.5 percent.

That cut, which followed a quarter-point reduction in the discount rate on Sunday, was seen as a clear signal that the Fed is ready to supply significant amounts of credit in direct loans to banks and other institutions through its discount window in an effort to stabilize financial markets roiled by the collapse over the weekend of Bear Stearns, the nation's fifth largest investment bank.

"We had been on the brink of the biggest financial meltdown this country had ever seen, but I think the Fed has now turned the psychology around," said David Jones, chief economist at DMJ Advisors. "The Fed is saying it is ready to supply all the emergency credit banks need to get us out of this crisis."

Many analysts said they believed the Fed may cut rates only once more, perhaps by a more ordinary quarter-point at the next meeting, and then sit back and see if economic stimulus checks that will begin arriving at 130 million households in May will do the trick along with the rate cuts to jump-start the economy.

There was opposition to Tuesday's decision, which was approved on an 8-2 vote. Richard Fisher, president of the Dallas Fed regional bank, and Charles Plosser, president of the Philadelphia regional bank, both dissented, preferring less aggressive moves. It marked the first time there have been as many as two dissents since a September 2002 meeting.

However, there has been no apparent change in the stance of Bernanke and the majority of Fed members that at the moment the greatest threat to the economy is from a possible recession, which may have already started, rather than from inflation that might be kindled by low rates.

"The Fed's statement signaled that the risks still are very much on the downside and they are willing to do whatever is necessary to make sure the economy doesn't slide away," said Mark Zandi, chief economist at Moody's Economy.com.

In explaining its actions, the Fed said that it was having to navigate a difficult policy environment that included sluggish economic activity and rising inflation pressures. It said anew that it was prepared to take further actions.

"Financial markets remain under considerable stress and the tightening of credit conditions and the deepening of the housing contraction are likely to weigh on economic growth over the next few quarters," the Fed said in its statement.

In Jacksonville, Fla., Tuesday, President Bush said the government will take further action -- if necessary -- to help the sagging economy.

The spectacular fall of Bear Stearns has raised concerns about what other banks might fail as a result of multibillion-dollar losses that began last year with rising defaults on subprime mortgages, loans made to borrowers with weak credit histories. However, two investment banks, Lehman Brothers Inc. and Goldman Sachs Group Inc., reported better than expected first quarter results on Tuesday, easing market worries.

Stocks had already been up strongly Tuesday before the Fed action. After the interest-rate cut was announced, stock prices slid lower as investors digested the fine print, then the buying resumed in earnest.

The purchase of Bear Stearns by JPMorgan Chase & Co. was helped by a pledge from the Fed that it would supply a $30 billion line of credit to back up Bear Stearns' assets.

That offer was the latest in a number of unconventional moves the central bank has made, including employing Depression-era procedures to pump cash into the financial system.

In addition to providing support for the Bear Stearns sale, the Fed also announced Sunday one of the broadest expansions of its lending authority since the 1930s, saying it would allow securities dealers for at least the next six months to borrow directly from the Fed. That privilege had been confined to commercial banks.

In other moves, the Fed last week announced that it would lend up to $200 billion of Treasury securities that it owns to investment banks starting March 27 for a period of up to 28 days in return for a like amount of the investment banks' shunned mortgage-backed securities. The Fed also announced recently that it was boosting the size of special loans it has been making since December to commercial banks.
   RF7   ARTimage image video      NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | e1101 : Economic Growth | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagdsp | sel----- | catw   IPDAP National News | Washington | Fed Credit Crisis Optional | D8VG457G1   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020080318e43i0039k  



 HDUS copper ends up in anticipation of Fed rate cut      WC523 words   PD18 March 2008   ET15:39   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited   
   LPNEW YORK, March 18 (Reuters) - U.S. copper futures ended near their session highs on Tuesday in anticipation of an expected decision by the Federal Reserve to slash interest rates by as much as one full percentage point.   

Copper for May delivery <HGK8> settled up 6.15 cents at $3.7465 a lb on the  New York Mercantile Exchange's COMEX division, near the upper end of its $3.6605-$3.7625 session range.   
   TDFinal estimated futures volumes totaled 11,589 lots, down from the 21,229 lots recorded on Monday.   

Open interest in the market fell by 1,539 lots to 102,214 contracts open as of March 17.   

"There was a little bottom-feeding today. Yesterday was predominantly asset liquidation and a little bit of squaring up ahead of the Fed number, and right now, it's all anticipation," said Frank McGhee, head precious metals trader with Integrated Brokerage Services LLC in Chicago.   

After copper settled, the Federal Reserve cut a key U.S. interest rate by three-quarters of a percentage point, a substantial cut but smaller than many in financial markets had expected.   

Many market participants expected the Fed to slash overnight rates by a full point, leading to some after-hours profit-taking on the news.   

"It's really a case where everybody was long on the announcement and now they're just taking profits," said Frank Lesh, broker and futures analyst with Future Path Trading in Chicago. "But we have not given the market enough time to filter in the last cut."   

The Fed's action takes the bellwether federal funds rate to 2.25 percent, the lowest since February 2005, and comes two days after the central bank announced the latest in a series of emergency measures to stem a fast-spreading global financial crisis.   

The Fed has now cut rates by 3 percentage points since mid-September, including 2 points since the start of the year in an effort to stimulate the economy.   

On Monday, copper futures settled at a one-month low after a fire sale of investment bank  Bear Stearns Cos Inc and emergency action by the U.S. Federal Reserve triggered a massive wave of risk reduction across the broader financial spectrum.   

"The  Bear Stearns experience has shaken confidence, making investors turn away from most forms of risk," said Bart Melek, Global Commodity Strategist with BMO Nesbitt Burns in Toronto. "In addition, there is the realization that the U.S. liquidity crisis is going to have an impact on the global economy in general."   

Overnight inventory data showed copper stocks in London Metal Exchange-registered warehouses fall 925 tonnes to 124,575 tonnes on Tuesday, while COMEX copper stocks were flat at 12,474 short tons on Monday.   

London copper for delivery in three-months on the London Metal Exchange <MCU3> closed up $159 at $8,210 a tonne from Monday's close. (Reporting by Chris Kelly, editing by Matthew Lewis)   
   RFMARKETS-COPPER-COMEX (UPDATE 1)|LANGEN|ABN|C|MTL|GRO|SOF|E|U|RBN|RNP|DNP|PCO|PCM   INimet : Metals/Mining   NSm15 : Derivative Securities | e1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REmex : Mexico | peru : Peru | usa : United States | camz : Central America | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | lamz : Latin America | namz : North America | samz : South America   IPCMET | DRV | MIN | GOL | MEMI | BMAT | MINE | MTAL | STL | COP/X   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020080318e43i0014z  



 HDArgentine stocks, bonds rebound after Fed rate cut      WC361 words   PD18 March 2008   ET21:49   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited   
   LPBUENOS AIRES, March 18 (Reuters) - Argentine stocks climbed on Tuesday in line with the rise of external markets following the U.S. Federal Reserve's interest rate cut.   

The benchmark MerVal index <.MERV> closed up 1.2 percent to 2,081.67 points.   
   TD"The interest rate cut fueled the MerVal's rise," said Ruben Pascuali, a broker at Mayoral brokerage.   

The MerVal and U.S. stocks jumped after the Fed slashed a key U.S. interest rate by three-quarters of a percentage point, a substantial cut but smaller than many in financial markets had expected.   

The Fed's action, part of an effort to hold off a deep recession and financial meltdown, takes the bellwether federal funds rate target down to 2.25 percent, the lowest since February 2005.   

In Argentina, the session's top percentage winners included energy group Transportadora de Gas del Sur , which was up 4.64 percent to 2.93 pesos per share, and  Petrobras Energia Participaciones , a branch of the Brazil's  Petrobras , which surged 4.35 percent to 3.45 pesos.   

On the broad market, volume was a modest $27.5 million. Of the active issues, 48 advanced, 17 declined and 13 ended unchanged.   

Meanwhile, government debt prices <AR/BONOS> rose 1.7 percent on average, led the dollar-denominated Discount bond, with a jump of 3.1 percent, and the Par bond, also denominated in dollars, gaining 2.1 percent in over-the-counter trade.   

With the dollar in free-fall against the euro, the peso <EURCC=RASL> hit a historic low against the European currency in the informal market, ending at 4.96/5.06 pesos per euro.   

Against the dollar, the peso firmed 0.08 percent to 3.1450/3.1475 <ARS=RASL> in formal interbank trade, where the central bank normally intervenes.   

In informal trade between foreign exchange houses, as measured by Reuters, the peso <ARSB=> ended unchanged at 3.1825/3.1850 per dollar. (Reporting by Walter Bianchi and Jorge Otaola; Writing by Gaspard Sebag; Editing by Neil Stempleman)   
   RFMARKETS-ARGENTINA|LANGEN|ABN|E|RBN|M|D|RNP   COpetbrs : Petroleo Brasileiro SA   INibnk : Banking/Credit | i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1300003 : Crude Petroleum Extraction | iextra : Natural Gas/Oil Extraction   NSm11 : Equity Markets | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | e1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REarg : Argentina | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | usa : United States | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | lamz : Latin America | namz : North America | samz : South America   IPCSTX | FRX | GVD | DBT | INVS | FIN | FUND | BSVC | FINS | DFIN | .BA   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020080318e43i001jv  



 HDINSTANT VIEW 5 - U.S. Fed cuts benchmark rate by 3/4 point      WC1,594 words   PD18 March 2008   ET19:51   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited   
   LPNEW YORK, March 18 (Reuters) - The Federal Reserve slashed a key U.S. interest rate by three-quarters of a percentage point on Tuesday, a substantial cut but smaller than many in financial markets had expected, as part of an effort to hold off a deep recession and financial meltdown.   

Story: [ID:nN18197964] Text: [ID:nTRT000321] KEY POINTS: * The Fed's action takes the bellwether federal funds rate to 2.25 percent, the lowest since February 2005. * Many in financial markets had expected the Fed to chop the overnight rate by a full point. * Fisher and Plosser preferred less aggressive action, the Fed said COMMENTS: BRET BARKER, PORTFOLIO MANAGER, METROPOLITAN WEST ASSET MANAGEMENT, LOS ANGELES:   
   TD"The Fed decision was a non-event between 75 basis points and 100 basis points when the Fed is moving in such large chunks or increments. The muted rate reaction leads you to believe that the market was positioned for 75, and not 100, despite what fed-funds futures showed. The big move by the Fed is that policy makers already did some heavy-lifting over the weekend by cutting the discount rate by 25 basis points and adding the new lending facility." DAVID JOY, MARKET STRATEGIST, RIVERSOURCE INVESTMENTS, MINNEAPOLIS:   

"The mention of inflation seemed to be a little bit more heightened than in the past. The language still referred most heavily to the downside risk to growth. I don't think it's any change. But they did give a nod of acknowledgment to those who are concerned about inflation, including ourselves. But I think they left the door open for further rate cuts..."   

"We think it would be something of a mistake (more rate cuts), we don't think that's the issue at hand. We think it's more liquidity. We'd rather see them do more of the kinds of creative things they've been doing rather than lower the Fed funds rate. But that doesn't seem to be what their path is at the present time.   

"I think it's (credit crisis) still with us, confidence still has a long way to go to be fully restored. But I do think that some of the mechanisms they've initiated give us a path to the restoration of that confidence." JOSEPH BALESTRINO, FIXED INCOME MARKET STRATEGIST, FEDERATED INVESTORS, PITTSBURGH:   

"The market didn't quite know what to think. The reality is that it (75 basis points) is a lot on a historical basis. They are certainly still on the hunt to fix this thing. We kind of like the action overall. The worst is behind us. The reality is with a lag in monetary policy we haven't even seen the beneficial effects of the previous cuts." JOSEPH FOSTER, PORTFOLIO MANAGER, VAN ECK INTERNATIONAL INVESTORS GOLD FUND, NEW YORK:   

"In the long term, none of what the Fed has done has cured some of the problems that have plagued the economy and the financial system. They are still with us. To me, the outlook for gold is still very positive."   

"And ultimately with the Fed's aggressive easing, eventually it's going to create inflationary pressures somewhere down the road. You can't keep dropping interest rate and not expect some kind of adverse reaction at some point." CARL LANTZ, U.S. INTEREST RATE STRATEGIST, CREDIT SUISSE, NEW YORK:   

"I think the statement was a little more hawkish than I would have expected with respect to inflation.   

"They highlighted inflation expectations creeping higher and that's in contrast to the inflation number we got on Friday. Also TIPS breakevens have come in quite a lot.   

"They are really highlighting dollar weakness and commodities strength as the source of their concern.   

"It's a bit surprising they weren't more dovish on inflation and that speaks to them wanting to help stabilize the dollar. It probably means they are looking to slow down the pace of rate cuts going forward. They saw this as a good time to disappoint the market with a smaller-than-expected cut given that they have given us so much in terms of liquidity provisions." ARUN RAHA, SENIOR ECONOMIST, SWISS RE, NEW YORK:   

"The Fed's action is yet another forceful move in its attempts to alleviate the liquidity crunch and to shore up a rapidly weakening economy. It clearly does not believe that the action it took last week to expand its securities lending program, or its emergency measures over the weekend to increase market liquidity are enough. The economy is in, or close to, a recession, but increasing oil prices have kept inflationary pressures from abating, complicating the Fed's task. However, inflation is expected to ease as economic activity slows, albeit with a lag, so the Fed is likely to cut further if the economy continues to weaken." KEVIN FLANAGAN, FIXED INCOME STRATEGIST, GLOBAL WEALTH MANAGEMENT, MORGAN STANLEY, PURCHASE, NEW YORK:   

"I am a bit surprised. I would have thought that given the heightened levels of anxiety we have seen in financial markets the Fed would give us 100 basis points of cuts."   

"Treasuries are extending losses mostly in the front end. They are going to respond to how stocks respond." STEPHEN SCHORK, EDITOR, THE SCHORK REPORT, VILLANOVA, PENNSYLVANIA:   

"The rate cut has been priced into the market. I don't see we are getting an untoward reaction. The natural gas guys liked it more than the crude (oil) guys. The crude oil market is beginning to exhaust itself. The economic outlook is anything but positive." K. DANIEL LIBBY, SENIOR PORTFOLIO MANAGER, SANDS BROTHERS SELECT ACCESS FUND, GREENWICH, CONNECTICUT:   

"The market expected the Fed to cut the federal funds rate by 75 basis points and that's what the Fed did. The cut continued the Fed's efforts to calm the markets after the steps they took over the weekend with  Bear Stearns and to calm the market's fears.   

"The market would have reacted negatively if the Fed had cut less and if the Fed had made a steeper cut, it would have caused unnecessary pounding on the dollar.   

"The Fed has shown that they are focused on getting the economy back on its feet first and foremost, and they will worry about inflation later. There can be no health in the economy until the banking system is working properly and to do that, the Fed has to get the yield curve positively sloped." ROBERT MACINTOSH, CHIEF ECONOMIST,  EATON VANCE MANAGEMENT, BOSTON:   

"A lot of people were hoping for a full percentage point, so a lot of people are probably disappointed. I don't think they should be. Inflation is an issue. If anything this move will probably flatten the yield curve a bit, if there is more concern about inflation then the long end will like that. Overall we are all sitting here waiting for the next crisis to hit and we will need a little bit more time of having no crisis before (markets) can really get closer to levels that make sense." RON SIMPSON, DIRECTOR OF CURRENCY STRATEGY, ACTION ECONOMICS, TAMPA, FLORIDA:   

"We had a mixed reaction in the dollar. It's an interesting statement where the Fed has increased its worry about U.S. growth prospects, but cited concerns about inflation. I guess we'll be hearing the word 'stagflation' more often now. Overall, I think any pop in the dollar will be short-lived. And people would be selling the dollar on rallies." TIM EVANS, ANALYST, CITIGROUP FUTURES RESEARCH, NEW YORK:   

"I think the rate cuts may help to support the economy over the long term and that will be of interest to the oil market. But in terms of fundamentals, I think that's looking out to the second half of the year." CHRIS JARVIS, SENIOR ANALYST, CAPROCK RISK MANAGEMENT, NEW HAMPSHIRE:   

"The FOMC continues to pull out all the stops to mitigate the current credit crisis in an effort to maintain an orderly economic slowdown. Overall, the market will view a 75 basis point negatively as it is in line with what the street had expected prior to the  Bear Stearns issues that made headlines last Friday and over the weekend." ROBERT WEIDEMER, PRESIDENT BUSINESS VALUATION CENTER, RESTON, VIRGINIA:   

"They're going to run out of room here pretty quick. My feeling is that, will this stabilize things for a while? Yes, but that while might only be a few weeks or months and we could have another shock." TOM BENTZ, ANALYST, BNP PARIBAS COMMODITIES FUTURES INC., NEW YORK:   

"Market was looking for full 1 point cut, so crude (oil) is paring the rise it had priced in earlier." JONATHAN BASILE, ECONOMIST, CREDIT SUISSE, NEW YORK:   

"It doesn't say they will stop because they still see risk to the downside. But it's not as dovish as the market had thought. The minority will get most of the coverage today. Until financial markets stabilizes, it's hard to predict when the Fed will stop lowering rates." MARKET REACTION: * BONDS: U.S. Treasuries on the short end extended losses * CURRENCIES: The dollar gains against the yen * STOCKS: U.S. equity indexes trim gains * RATE FUTURES: Fed funds futures plunge, see a 50 basis point cut at April meeting OTHER DATA FROM MARCH 18: * PPI and housing starts story [ID:nN18164508] * ICSC weekly chain store sales [ID:nNAT003820]   
   RFUSA-ECONOMY/FOMC (INSTANT VIEW)|LANGEN|Table|ABN|E|RBN|U|D|M|MNI|O|OIL   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCMCE | ECI | PLCY | CEN | FED | MUNI | DBT | US/INSTANT | EMBG:DBT | EMBG:PLCY | EMBG:US/INSTANT | embargokeyE2E2E2E2E2E2   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020080321e43i000uf  



 HDECB Update: As Turmoil Worsens, ECB Keeps Its Eye On The Ball   WC1,546 words   PD18 March 2008   ET17:13   SNMarket News International   SCMARNEW   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008. Market News International, Inc.   
   TD

         "The Risk Of Inflation Is Not To Be Ignored" 
   (Austrian Central Bank Governor Klaus Liebscher, 17 March 2008.

     BRUSSELS (MNI) - Shockwaves from the U.S., market meltdowns, record 
high euro-dollar rates, oil price in the stratosphere. The list goes on, 
but nothing it seems can induce the European Central Bank to take its 
eye off inflation risks in the euro zone, which it sees as worrying as 
ever. 

     Although markets raised their bets on an early ECB rate in the wake 
of the Bears Stearns debacle and amidst increasingly gummed-up financial 
markets, recent rhetoric from policymakers allows little room to think 
cheaper money is around the corner. The ECB has battened down the 
hatches and seems determined to ride out this storm without having to 
cut rates. 

     If anything, there is a sense that the rhetoric on inflation -- 
especially on so-called "second round" effects -- is hardening. Today, 
Luxembourg's Central Bank Governor Yves Mersch said in an interview with 
Reuters that the ECB would have to "reassess" its monetary policy stance 
if it saw signs of heightened inflation expectations filtering through 
into wage demands. 

     And yesterday in the Portuguese press, Executive Board member 
Juergen Stark warned that wage moderation in Germany could soon come to 
an end, with a "significant" knock-on effect on the euro area. "We are 
well prepared to prevent broadly based second-round effects," Stark 
warned. 

     As far as second-round inflation effects go, we seem to be 
tip-toeing gently back into the territory of "pre-emptive" action, 
abandoned in January. 

     The data haven't exactly helped the doves on the Governing Council. 
Eurozone annual HICP was revised up to 3.3% in February, a new record 
high since the beginning of monetary union. Moreover, eurozone labour 
costs accelerated in the fourth quarter of last year to the fastest pace 
since Q2 2006. In normal circumstances, you could easily envisage 
tighter monetary policy, not looser. 

     In fact, a senior eurosystem source admitted as much in a 
conversation with MNI over the past few days. "It is my opinion that 
when the discussion for a policy change comes to the table it would be 
for tightening, since inflationary pressures are on the upside and oil 
prices are unpredictable," this source said. 

     Nor does the soaring euro-dollar rate clear the way for an interest 
rate cut, even as it climbs towards $1.60. Policymakers have been 
expressing concern about the rate but have also been playing down its 
importance for the ECB's monetary policy thinking. 

     Board member Lorenzo Bini-Smaghi noted in an interview with a 
Brazilian paper yesterday that the euro's trade weighted appreciation 
has been significantly less than its rise against the dollar. His 
colleague Stark also stressed that the effective exchange rate of the 
euro is "much more important" than any given cross. 

     And while Liebscher expressed his concern, he was careful to bring 
the focus back to price stability: "The risk of inflation is not to be 
ignored," and there is no trade-off between fighting price rises and 
promoting economic growth, he said at a press conference in Vienna 
yesterday  

     Furthermore, despite the panic spreading from the other side of the 
Atlantic, eurozone officials have remained sanguine in the past few days 
about the euro area's growth prospects. 

     Liebscher exclaimed: "I am strictly against this constant talking 
down of the economy." He added that Europe is "much more resilient" than 
it was previously and that growth rates would likely come in only 
slightly short of potential. 

     Mersch also emphasized the strong fundamentals of the euro area 
economy and, in a clear reference to the U.S., noted that any slowing in 
the zone would not be comparable to "other economic areas." 

     The overall picture is clear. Despite the maelstrom, the ECB 
believes the eurozone ship will not be capsized unless there is a freak 
wave from the Atlantic, in the shape of another major unexpected crisis 
(which can still not be excluded). In the meantime, attention is trained 
firmly on the clouds overhead in the shape of inflation risks, which 
stubbornly refuse to be blown away. 

     So, while the ECB may continue to inject large amounts of liquidity 
into the markets to grease the wheels, a monetary policy response along 
the lines of the Federal Reserve remains unlikely for the time being. 
Rate cuts are not on the horizon unless things get dramatically worse, 
and if things get dramatically better, the hawks could start to argue in 
favour of a hike -- who knows? 

     -- 

     BRUSSELS (MNI) - Prospects for an early loosening of monetary 
policy have dimmed even further in recent days following a new flurry of 
hawkish European Central Bank comments and data that seem to confirm the 
ECB's scenario of stubbornly high inflation with only a slight slowdown 
in eurozone growth. 

     Market expectations of a rate cut that seemed just around the 
corner only a month ago are being pushed back further and further. A 25 
basis point cut is now only fully priced in for September. 

     The hawks have been out in force in recent days. Following a 
barrage of inflation warnings from Bundesbank President Axel Weber 
earlier in the week, the baton passed Wednesday to another Bundesbank 
alumnus, ECB Executive Board member Juergen Stark. 

     Speaking in Berlin, Stark was scarcely less hawkish than his former 
boss. The ECB is "alarmed" by recent inflation developments, Stark 
insisted, saying that price pressures are causing the bank "particular 
worries." He warned again that the ECB would not tolerate the emergence 
of second-round inflation effects. 

     Stark's current boss, President Jean-Claude Trichet, also ratcheted 
up the rhetoric against the emergence of second-round effects in a 
French magazine interview published this morning. The message of the 
Governing Council is "clear" he stated. A wage-price spiral is 
"unacceptable" and would endanger both the economy and longer-term price 
prospects. 

     On the other side of the inflation-growth coin, Stark appeared 
relatively sanguine about the prospects for a slowdown in the euro area. 
While acknowledging that growth would be slightly below its potential of 
around 2%, this was nothing "dramatic," he said. He maintained there has 
been only a "limited" impact on the euro area from the financial market 
mess and insisted there was "no credit squeeze" in Europe. 

     These comments were echoed by Stark's colleague on the Executive 
Board, Lorenzo Bini-Smaghi, who said in an interview with the 
Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung Wednesday that the eurozone was standing 
up pretty well to the financial market turmoil and that European banks 
are in a decent position to weather the storm. 

     And the data -- so far -- are bearing out this relatively 
optimistic viewpoint. 

     Industrial production in the euro area expanded for the first time 
in three months in January, according to data published yesterday. The 
0.9% month-on-month gain in the sector shattered all analysts' 
expectations. Leading indicators -- including industrial orders -- may 
well be pointing to an eventual slowdown for euro area industry, but for 
now the broad-based nature of the gains suggests that the sector is in 
relatively good health. 

     In normal times, it would be easy to imagine a scenario in which 
the euro area cools to a level this year of slightly below potential 
(say 1.7%-1.8%), thereby dampening inflationary pressure and allowing 
the ECB to move in late summer or early autumn from its currently 
neutral stance to a loosening mode which produces one or maybe two 25 
basis point cuts by the end of the year. 

     But let us not forget that these are not normal times and it is 
frankly nigh-on impossible to predict with any certainty what the next 
few months could bring. Even arch-hawk Stark could not help adding a 
caveat that downside growth risks should "not be underestimated." 

     Every day seems to bring a new high in the oil price and a new high 
in euro-dollar despite almost daily and increasingly direct attempts by 
European policymakers to talk the currency down. Liquidity problems are 
again to the fore, as this week's massive co-ordinated injection by 
central banks show. 

     The financial market problems are far from over. Stark even said, 
"we are likely entering at the moment a new phase of turbulence." 

     So, it is by no means possible to rule out another tremor on the 
financial markets that plunges the euro area into a deeper slowdown, 
bringing inflation down sharply and allowing the ECB to cut rates 
earlier than markets currently anticipate. 

     But for the moment, despite tentative signs of slowing inflation 
(French CPI rose less than generally expected in February and Italian 
core inflation slowed for the first time since September 2007 in 
February), the upside risks to the inflation outlook are clear and the 
hawks are not shy of pointing them out repeatedly and loudly. 

     For the next month or so, the ECB will continue to keep the 
gearstick firmly in neutral and bark loudly about inflation unless 
something comes along out of the blue to make them change their tune. 

-- Brussels newsroom: 0032-2-230-4370 email: rcarter@marketnews.com

[TOPICS: MT$$$$,M$$EC$,M$X$$$]
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | e52 : Euro Zone/Currency | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecbnk : European Central Bank | ecat : Economic News | eec : European Union | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations   REeecz : European Union Countries | usa : United States | eurz : Europe | namz : North America   PUBMarket News International, Inc.   ANDocument MARNEW0020080318e43i000fg  



 HDFED FOCUS-Hawks won't halt Fed rate cuts, may temper scope      BYBy Alister Bull      WC646 words   PD18 March 2008   ET23:55   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited   
   LPWASHINGTON, March 18 (Reuters) - Federal Reserve hawks will not prevent more interest rate cuts designed to bolster the U.S. economy, but they may temper the depth of future policy easing and help keep inflation expectations contained.   

Two dissenting votes on Tuesday against the Fed's cut of three-quarters of a percentage point in the overnight interbank federal funds rate to 2.25 percent marked the first time since September 2002 that a pair of policy-makers defied their Fed colleagues.   
   TD"This is positive. It shows people that this is not just a rubber-stamp Fed that follows the chairman," said former Cleveland Federal Reserve Bank President Lee Hoskins.   

"Dissents are important, both inside the Fed and as a signal to markets," said Hoskins, arguing it was crucial that the Fed not water down its goal for price stability as it fought financial market stress sparked by the subprime crisis.   

The hold-outs against the 75 basis point cut by voting members of the Federal Open Market Committee were Dallas Fed President Richard Fisher and Philadelphia Fed chief Charles Plosser. Both argued for less aggressive policy action.   

Plosser is an academic economist of international standing and Fisher a successful hedge fund manager and former U.S. trade representative. Both recently voiced concern about rising inflation, and Fisher had dissented against the Fed's last rate reduction on Jan. 30 as well.   

"It seems as if the (FOMC) wanted to regain some inflation credibility after focusing on the financial sector and the economy of late," said Harm Bandholz at  UniCredit Markets and Investment Banking.   

In addition, only three of the 12 regional Fed branches were immediately on board with the accompanying three-quarter point cut in the discount rate charged on direct central bank loans to financial firms, although five others quickly joined the ranks.   

"The nature of the decision -- featuring two dissents and only three banks asking for a parallel cut in the discount rate -- sends a hawkish message to the markets," said  Goldman Sachs economists in a note to clients.   

Goldman Sachs said more rate cuts probably lay ahead, but that opposition likely was stiff to the full percentage point cut that interest-rates futures showed that markets had expected.   

The Fed did sharpen its language on inflation and pointed out some measures of inflation expectation had risen, in a nod to the recent widening in the spread between U.S. Treasury notes and Treasury inflation-protected securities.   

The dissenters probably had this deterioration in mind when they took the decision to oppose their colleagues in the midst of a financial market crisis that has already prompted unprecedented emergency action by the U.S. central bank.   

"Fisher and Plosser are just trying to temper the Fed's aggressiveness," said Gregory Hess, a professor of economics at Claremont McKenna College in Claremont, California.   

They want "to remind people that there is a trigger at which the Fed will think that the inflation expectations have gotten beyond what the Fed can tolerate," Hess said.   

The 10-year TIPS spread has drifted up from around 2.35 percentage points to 2.70 percentage points in recent weeks, although it has narrowed somewhat in recent days. It edged up by around 10 basis points again on Tuesday as underlying Treasury prices sagged amid a rampant stock market.   

"The Fed is obviously in a position where there are no good choices and one of those bad outcomes is if inflation expectations rise. I think that the fact that people know that there are some (policy-makers) reminding people that there is an issue can only help to contain them," said Hess. (Editing by Leslie Adler)   
   RFUSA-FED/HAWKS (ANALYSIS)|LANGEN|ABN|C|D|E|M|O|U|MTL|GRO|SOF|OIL   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCWASH | FED | CEN | MCE | PLCY | STIR | INT | FED/FOCUS | EMBG:PLCY | embargokeyE1   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020080321e43i0015t  



 HDUS TREASURY OUTLOOK-Eyes on the stock market after Fed cut      BYBy Chris Reese      WC392 words   PD18 March 2008   ET21:21   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited   
   LPNEW YORK, March 18 (Reuters) - U.S. Treasury debt prices will likely take direction from stocks on Wednesday, with little in the way of economic data and after the Federal Reserve's interest rate cut did little to surprise investors.   

Stocks soared on Tuesday and bonds plunged, with the big driver being stronger-than-expected financial results from  Goldman Sachs and  Lehman Brothers .   
   TDShares of financial companies have been under intense downward pressure over worries of the impact of a global credit crisis, but they reversed that on Tuesday to bounce back strongly.   

Investors in general had been looking for the Fed to cut interest rates on Tuesday, although many had expected the central bank to shave a full percentage point from the recommended overnight lending rate between banks.   

As it was, the Fed still cut rates by an aggressive 75 basis points to 2.25 percent.   

"It is a confidence game and this bigger than normal 75 basis point rate cut will give the market the confidence it needs -- if Wall Street goes down, the economy won't be far behind," said Chris Rupkey, senior financial economist at  Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ in New York.   

Stocks extended early gains on Tuesday, while bond losses deepened, after the Fed cut bolstered investor expectations that the economic slowdown may be somewhat stifled by looser monetary policy.   

"Treasuries ... are going to respond to how stocks respond," said Kevin Flanagan, fixed income strategist at  Morgan Stanley in Purchase, New York.   

Stocks could take early direction on Wednesday when another large financial institution,  Morgan Stanley , reports its financial results -- expected before U.S. equity markets begin official trading.   

The fortunes of financial companies have been particularly spotlighted by investors after  JPMorgan Chase & Co agreed over the weekend to buy troubled  Bear Stearns Inc for $2 per share, with the backing of the Federal Reserve.   

"Overall we are all sitting here waiting for the next crisis to hit and we will need a little bit more time of having no crisis before (markets) can really get closer to levels that make sense," said Robert MacIntosh, chief economist at  Eaton Vance Management in Boston. (Editing by Richard Satran)   
   RFMARKETS-BONDS-OUTLOOK|LANGEN|ABN|D|E|RBN|U|MNI|M   NSe1122 : Mortgage Applications/Refinancing | e1202 : Interest Rates | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m131 : Money Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCMMT | DBT | GVD | AGN | MTG | STIR | MCE | MUNI | US/O | EMBG:DBT | embargokeyE1   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020080321e43i000wg  



 HDFED FOCUS-Fed ambushed on moral high ground, beats retreat      BYBy Alister Bull and Mark Felsenthal      WC830 words   PD17 March 2008   ET21:58   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited   
   LPWASHINGTON, March 17 (Reuters) - The Federal Reserve's cash life-line to financial markets has set a dangerous precedent with lasting costs, but it was probably necessary to prevent economic ills from spreading.   

The Fed on Sunday announced it would extend $30 billion in credit against  Bear Stearns' shaky assets to persuade  JPMorgan Chase & Co to buy the troubled investment bank for $2 a share.   
   TDOne former policy-maker said the Fed had "crossed a bright line" by putting taxpayers money in danger and was flirting with moral hazard by shielding investors from loss.   

Others agreed. They didn't like it, but said the Fed had made the right call.   

"It's a little bit like a cancer patient," said former Fed Board Governor Lyle Gramley.   

"The situation facing the Fed is sufficiently dire so that a financial and economic meltdown cannot be ruled out. The Fed has to set moral hazard aside as best it can," he said.   

From the outset of the crisis last year, when losses in the U.S. subprime mortgage market sparked a global credit crunch, Fed policy-makers have acknowledged the danger of "moral hazard" -- protecting investors from loss and thereby encouraging more reckless risk-taking in the future.   

"I think there is a moral hazard issue here," said Ann Owen, a former Fed economist and now an economics professor at Hamilton University in Clinton, New York.   

"Much of the turmoil in credit markets started with individuals profiting from taking irresponsible risks. At this point, however, the Fed doesn't have a choice -- in order to prevent the financial markets from locking up, they need to provide liquidity right now," she said.   

Fed policy-makers have also made clear they believe it is better to shield a few investors than make millions of ordinary people suffer by allowing market stress to trigger a vicious spiral that drags the economy into a deep recession.   

NO GOING BACK   

"If I had still been at the Fed, I would have gone for this. I would have voted for it ... recognizing that it is not without cost," said Alfred Broaddus, former president of the Richmond Federal Reserve Bank.   

"They crossed a bright line. It was a Hobson's choice. They didn't have any good options", said Broaddus, who likened the Fed's action to fiscal policy and said that the U.S. public would never forget that it had placed their money in peril.   

"The cost is that the Fed ... has indicated that there are situations where it would unilaterally put taxpayers at risk of having to pay some money nobody has legislated," he said.   

The Fed traditionally earns a profit from its balance sheet operations and gives most of it to the U.S. Treasury, so any loss lowering this income would be at taxpayers' expense.   

Gramley said the Fed's actions were only a start, and that a wider government-wide effort is needed right now.   

"We're going to get involved with taxpayers money before this is over. The sooner we get started, the cheaper it will be," he said. "This situation is unlike anything I have seen in 50 years of looking at the economy."   

Another risk for the Fed is that its aggressive efforts to ensure banks have access to liquid funds may deplete its own balance sheet.   

The Fed holds more than $800 billion on its balance sheet, of which $709 billion are Treasury securities, but it has recently pledged to pump some $400 billion into markets.   

"The Fed is now running on less than a tank of gas," said former Fed Governor Laurence Meyer. "The various liquidity policies announced in recent weeks are starting to add up."   

Other analysts, however, said if the Fed cuts the overnight federal funds rate, which it influences by buying and selling Treasury securities in open market operations, it could expand its balance sheet and buttress its ability to undertake further liquidity-boosting measures.   

The Fed is expected to do just that on Tuesday when policy-makers gather for a regularly scheduled meeting. Interest-rate futures prices imply markets see the a cut in the funds rate of a full percentage point to 2.0 percent.   

Some believe market turmoil would have to deteriorate further before the Fed's commitments would restrict them from conducting monetary policy by buying or selling Treasuries.   

"If you got to a point where you got through all the Fed's balance sheet, you would have experienced some qualitative changes in the situation of financial markets that would call for broad government involvement," said Douglas Elmendorf, a former Fed economist now at the Brookings Institution, a Washington-based think tank. (Reporting by Mark Felsenthal Alister Bull; Editing by Clive McKeef )   
   RFUSA-FED/MARKETS/HAZARD (ANALYSIS)|LANGEN|ABN|M|D|E|RBN|U|MNI|UKI|CANT|AUF|J|Z|RNP|DNP   NSe1122 : Mortgage Applications/Refinancing | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | e1202 : Interest Rates | m131 : Money Markets | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCWASH | FED | CEN | MCE | PLCY | STIR | INT | REGS | FIN | BNK | GVD | DBT | MMT | MTG   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020080317e43h002fc  



 HDUPDATE 2-Fed drains U.S. banking reserves via reverse repos      WC221 words   PD19 March 2008   ET14:40   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited   
   LP(Adds background, quote)   

NEW YORK, March 19 (Reuters) - The Federal Reserve is draining U.S. banking reserves temporarily via overnight reverse repurchase agreements, the Federal Reserve of New York said on Wednesday.   
   TDThe Fed accepted $7.25 billion of the $15.3 billion bids for the open market operation. The Treasuries collateral accepted cleared at a stop-out rate of 1.00 percent, according to Fed data.   

Such a move typically puts upward pressure on overnight borrowing costs between banks, but analysts said the Fed decided it needed to offset the flood of cash expected from different liquidity facilities it had announced in recent days to ease the credit crunch.   

The Fed has said it may conduct draining measures like reverse repos and sales of Treasury bills from its portfolio to maintain its reserve and interest rate targets.   

"Therefore, to prevent the (federal) funds rate from trading too soft they are draining money from the system," said Lou Brien, market strategist at DRW Trading in Chicago.   

Fed funds last traded at 2.375 percent, above the Fed's current target rate of 2.250 percent.   

(Reporting by Richard Leong, Editing by Chizu Nomiyama)   
   RFMARKETS-FED/OPERATIONS (UPDATE 2)|LANGEN|ABN|D|E|RBN|U|M|RNP|DNP   NSe1201 : Central Bank Intervention | e1202 : Interest Rates | m131 : Money Markets | ntop : Dow Jones/Reuters Top Wire News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCDBT | GVD | INT | MCE | STIR | NEWS | MMT | CEN | FED/ | EMBG:DBT | EMBG:FED/ | embargokeyE2E2E2E2   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020080322e43j0009z  



 HDUPDATE 1-China watching U.S. rate trend, officials say      WC205 words   PD17 March 2008   ET07:57   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited   
   LP(Adds central bank governor's comments in paragraphs 4-5)   

BEIJING, March 17 (Reuters) - China must beware in case the Federal Reserve follows its latest quarter-point cut in the U.S. discount rate with other interest rate reductions, Commerce Minister Chen Deming said on Monday.   
   TDSpeaking to reporters, he said the impact of Sunday's cut would be "OK" for China. But if the trend continued, China would have to be very careful, Chen said without elaborating.   

Policy makers are worried that a widening interest rate gap in the dollar's favour will suck speculative capital into China, adding to excess liquidity and making it harder than ever to manage monetary policy.   

Zhou Xiaochuan, governor of the People's  Bank of China, said later that the Fed was responding to U.S. economic circumstances, which were quite different from those in China now.   

However, Zhou told reporters that countries in the world economy are closely interlinked and so the PBOC would pay close attention to developments. (Reporting by Eadie Chen; Editing by Alan Wheatley and Edmund Klamann)   
   RFCHINA-ECONOMY/COMMERCE (UPDATE 1)|LANGEN|ABN|E|RBN|D|Z|M|RNP|DNP   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REasiaz : Asia | china : China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | usa : United States | chinaz : Greater China | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America   IPCMCE | INT | CEN | PLCY   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020080317e43h00108  



 HDTREASURIES-US yields rise as stocks rally after Fed rate cut      BYBy Ellen Freilich      WC621 words   PD18 March 2008   ET13:41   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited   
   LP(Updates comment, adds closing prices)   

NEW YORK, March 18 (Reuters) - U.S. Treasury debt prices fell on Tuesday after a large Federal Reserve interest rate cut resulted in a big U.S. stock market rally, curbing the safe-haven appeal of government debt.   
   TDThe selling sent benchmark 10-year U.S. Treasury yields up 17 basis points, the biggest single-day leap in nearly four years.   

The U.S. Treasury's 2-year note's <US2YT=RR> yield rose to 1.60 percent in its biggest single-day move since last Tuesday's jump in yields. Last Tuesday saw the biggest one day jump in the note's yield in four years after the Fed broadened the definition of acceptable collateral for banks borrowing money from the Fed.   

Weekend moves by the Fed to breathe life into credit markets, including a plan to have  JPMorgan Chase's buy ailing investment bank  Bear Stearns , did not prevent Treasury yields from reaching their lowest levels in nearly five years on Monday as jittery investors bought less risky investments such as Treasuries.   

But the Fed's medicine appeared to work on Tuesday when the promise of an impending Fed rate cut, and some unexpectedly strong investment bank earnings, helped spark a broad U.S. stock market rally as investors chose to look for value in battered assets like stocks and turn away from Treasuries.   

The renewed appetite for risk drove both the S&P 500 <.SPX> stock index and the Nasdaq <.IXIC> each up more than 4.0 percent and the Dow Jones industrial average <.DJI> up 3.5 percent.   

"With the stock market recovering, there's less nervousness about financial turmoil," said Michael Moran, chief economist at  Daiwa Securities America in new York. "There's less concern about the economy slipping into a deep recession so interest rates naturally move a little bit up in that environment."   

Despite some initial hesitation, the interest-rate cuts the Fed implemented at its regular policy meeting on Tuesday further fueled the stock rally, hurting bond prices.   

"The cut continued the Fed's efforts to calm the markets after the steps they took over the weekend to calm the market's fears," said K. Daniel Libby, senior portfoio manager at Sands Brothers Select Access Fund in Greenwich, Connecticut.   

The Fed cut its benchmark fed funds rate by three-quarters of a percentage point to 2.25 percent, its lowest level since February 2005, in a move designed to hold off a deep recession and financial meltdown.   

The action came two days after the central bank announced fresh measures to prevent a lending freeze that could deepen or draw out a recession that many economists suspect is already underway.   

"The Fed is, first and foremost, focused on getting the economy back on its feet and it will worry about inflation later," Libby said. "There can be no health in the economy until the banking system is working properly."   

Stronger than expected earnings from  Goldman Sachs and  Lehman Brothers contributed to tighter credit default swap spreads which also weighed on Treasury prices, said Josh Stiles bond strategist and managing director with IDEAglobal in New York.   

Economic data released on Tuesday showed an increase in U.S. February producer prices in line with forecasts. Housing starts in February appeared to weaken less than expected, but were aided by a strong jump in multi-family units which tend to be volatile. Analysts said the housing sector was still weak.   

(Additional reporting by John Parry)   
   RFMARKETS-BONDS (UPDATE 5)|LANGEN|ABN|M|D|E|RBN|U|MNI|UKI|CANT|AUF|J|Z|RNP|DNP   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | e214 : Sub-national/Local Borrowing | m11 : Equity Markets | m131 : Money Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ntop : Dow Jones/Reuters Top Wire News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e21 : Government Finance | e212 : Government Borrowing | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCDBT | GVD | MUNI | INT | MCE | STIR | MMT | NEWS | US/ | US/N | XXSNPT | EMBG:DBT | embargokeyE1E1R1:2   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020080318e43i0012i  



 HDUPDATE 1-Fed cuts key U.S. interest rates by 3/4 point      BYBy Mark Felsenthal      WC691 words   PD18 March 2008   ET19:14   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited   
   LP WASHINGTON, March 18 (Reuters) - The Federal Reserve slashed a key U.S. interest rate by three-quarters of a percentage point on Tuesday, a substantial cut but smaller than many in financial markets had expected, as part of an effort to hold off a deep recession and financial meltdown.   
   TD The Fed's action, taken on an 8-2 vote of its policy committee, took the bellwether federal funds rate down to 2.25 percent, the lowest since February 2005. Financial markets had largely priced in a full point reduction.   

 "Financial markets remain under considerable stress, and the tightening of credit conditions and the deepening of the housing contraction are likely to weigh on economic growth over the next few quarters," the central bank said in a statement outlining its decision.   

 The Fed also said downside risks to economic growth remained even in the wake of the rate cut, suggesting an openness to a further lowering of borrowing costs if needed.   

 However, two Fed officials dissented, preferring less-aggressive action. Still, most policy-makers seemed to be counting on inflation to subside, partly because they expect unemployment to rise.   

 "The committee expects inflation to moderate in coming quarters, reflecting a projected leveling out of energy and other commodity prices and an easing of pressures on resource utilization," the Fed said.   

 U.S. stock markets trimmed earlier gains on the smaller-than-expected rate cut, but were still up sharply. Prices for short-term government debt extended losses and the dollar pared earlier gains against the Japanese yen.   

 "The Fed has shown that they are focused on getting the economy back on its feet first and foremost, and they will worry about inflation later," said K. Daniel Libby, senior portfolio manager at Sands Brothers Select Access Fund in Greenwich, Connecticut.   

 CREDIT CONCERNS   

 The action comes two days after the central bank announced the latest in a series of emergency measures to stem a fast-spreading global financial crisis.   

 The Fed has now cut rates by 3 percentage points since mid-September, including 2 points since the start of the year. In recent days, the central bank has also unveiled steps not used since the Great Depression to ensure financial institutions have access to liquid funds.   

 The central bank is pulling out all the stops to provide liquidity to financial markets and put a floor under an economy many analysts believe is in recession.   

 A spike in mortgage delinquencies has escalated since the summer to a full-blown credit crunch that claimed venerable Wall Street institution  Bear Stearns as its most prominent victim.   

 The Fed, fearing financial markets would freeze up and send the economy into an sharp downward spiral, has offered cash auctions and direct loans to financial institutions, opening those liquidity avenues beyond the banks that normally deal with the Fed to include other Wall Street firms.   

 In spite of a series of interest rate cuts and liquidity-providing measures, U.S. economic activity has decelerated sharply. Recent reports show a loss in jobs, reduced factory output and a drop in retail sales.   

 The U.S. central bank has set aside lingering concerns on inflation arising from a jump in oil prices, some of which is blamed on the continuing deterioration of the dollar's value.   

 The government has responded to the economy's abrupt slowing with a fiscal stimulus package aimed at putting cash in consumers' wallets. Lawmakers are also pushing for measures that would revive the struggling U.S. housing market by providing relief for homeowners who are delinquent in their mortgages and facing possible foreclosure.   

 U.S. Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson earlier on Tuesday conceded the economy was in decline. "There's no doubt that the American people know that the economy has turned down sharply," he told NBC's Today show.  (Additional reporting by David Lawder; Editing by Tim Ahmann)      
   RFUSA-FED/ (UPDATE 1)|LANGEN|ABN|C|D|E|M|O|U|MTL|GRO|SOF|OIL|G|RBN|MNI|AFA|CSA|LBY|RWSA|RWS|REULB|GNS|ABX|BNX|RNP   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1122 : Mortgage Applications/Refinancing | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | e1202 : Interest Rates | ntop : Dow Jones/Reuters Top Wire News | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCWASH | FED | CEN | MCE | NEWS | INT | STIR | PLCY | GVD | DBT | STX | FRX | MTG | ECI | EMBG:DBT | EMBG:PLCY | embargokeyE1R1:1   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020080318e43i001eb  



 HDUPDATE 3-Toronto stocks lifted by banks, U.S. rate cut   BYBy Leah Schnurr      WC700 words   PD18 March 2008   ET21:05   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited   
   LP(Adds details, quotes)

TORONTO, March 18 (Reuters) - The Toronto Stock Exchange's main index rallied on Tuesday with bank stocks powering higher after an aggressive interest rate cut in the United States and on bargain-hunting after the previous day's losses.
   TDAlthough the 75-basis-point cut by the U.S. Federal Reserve was less than the full percentage point that some had hoped for, investors cheered it as another move to stave off a U.S. recession.

Banking stocks, which have been battered by the faltering U.S. subprime mortgage market, led the way up, gaining 4.1 percent. The sector also benefited from bargain-hunting after the group slid in a broad market selloff on Monday.

The major banks were among the biggest weighted advancers on Tuesday, including Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce , which rose C$3.81, or 6.7 percent, to C$60.75, and Royal Bank of Canada , up C$2.21, or 5 percent, at C$46.53.

Sal Masionis, stockbroker at Brant Securities, said that there is a feeling that recent rate cuts from the Fed as well as moves to make sure financial institutions have access to liquid funds will start to ease some of the pressure of tightness in global credit markets.

"(Interest rates) have dropped 200 basis points in two months," Masionis said. "This is huge, but obviously the system is in quite bad shape and there's a lot of nervousness because we don't know what's behind each company.

The S&P/TSX composite index <.GSPTSE> closed up 184.55 points, or 1.42 percent, at 13,136.70 with all but two of its 10 main sectors on the upside.

A 1.4-percent gain in the oil and gas sector pushed the benchmark higher, while the price of oil was also boosted by the Fed's action. Imperial Oil rose C$1.73, or 3.4 percent, to C$53.35, and Canadian Natural Resources was up C$1.38, or 2 percent, at C$71.03.

Also on the upside, Research In Motion , the maker of the BlackBerry, jumped C$6.07, or 6.2 percent, to C$104.15.

The industrials sector added 2.5 percent, while Canadian National Railway rose C$2.09, or 4.4 percent, to C$49.12 after it unveiled regional spending plans for track and infrastructure work. Elsewhere in the sector, Bombardier gained 36 Canadian cents, or 7 percent, to C$5.54.

But on the downside, the materials sector slid 2.4 percent, pulled lower by a sharp 5.6 percent fall in shares of gold producers as U.S. gold futures retreated in after-hours trading. Barrick Gold was down C$2.91, or 5.6 percent, at C$49.28, and Kinross Gold fell C$1.77, or 6.8 percent, to C$24.15.

Sherritt International gave up C$1.31, or 8 percent, to C$15.10 after it said it will buy out the share of Royal Utilities Income Fund that it doesn't already own for about C$700 million.

Shares of HudBay Minerals fell 30 Canadian cents, or 1.8 percent, to C$16.50 after the zinc and copper producer said its fourth-quarter profit skidded 83 percent due to lower zinc prices and strength in the Canadian dollar.

Market volume was 409 million shares worth C$7.7 billion. Advancers outpaced decliners 821 to 789. The blue chip S&P/TSX 60 index <.TSE60> closed up 13.08 points, or 1.72 percent, at 773.39.

On Wall Street, stocks surged after the interest rate cut and strong results from two top investment banks. The Dow Jones industrial average <.DJI> rose 420.41 points, or 3.51 percent, to 12,392.66, and the Nasdaq Composite Index <.IXIC> rose 91.25 points, or 4.19 percent, to 2,268.26.

($1=$0.99 Canadian) (Editing by Peter Galloway)
   RFMARKETS-CANADA-STOCKS (UPDATE 3)|LANGEN|ABN|E|U|RBN|CANT|C|MTL|O|OIL|RNP|DNP|PCO|PEN   INi13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | imet : Metals/Mining | i1 : Energy   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCSTX | ENR | MF | MET | GOL | GDM | CRU | NGS | .TO   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020080318e43i001is  



 HDUS RATE FUTURES-Fully price 100 bps cut from Fed      BYBy Ros Krasny      WC354 words   PD17 March 2008   ET01:44   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited   
   LP(Updates prices, adds comments)   

CHICAGO, March 16 (Reuters) - U.S. short-term interest rate futures late on Sunday fully reflected a 100 basis point cut to the Federal Reserve's benchmark lending rate at or before Tuesday's policy meeting.   
   TDA 100-point reduction would drag the federal funds rate to 2 percent from 3 percent, the lowest since December 2004.   

Futures spiked higher in thin Sunday-night trading after the Fed announced an emergency cut to its discount rate on Sunday night to 3.25 percent from 3.5 percent, along with other measures to stabilize credit markets. [ID:nN16507166]   

The latest moves increased dealers' confidence that the Federal Open Market Committee will take an aggressive tack on Tuesday.   

Late on Friday, chances for a 100 basis point cut were 52 percent, and for most of the month financial markets have leaned toward a 50 basis point ease this month.   

"A week ago, a 100 basis point cut may have seemed unthinkable to some; now, a cut from 3 percent to 2 percent is entirely possible, maybe even close to 'central case,'" said Rory Robertson, interest rate strategist at  Macquarie Bank in Sydney.   

At one point, the futures also reflected a 20 percent chance that the fed funds rate could be cut by 125 basis points [ID:nTKW003012]   

Futures also suggest the FOMC's rate cuts, which have dragged its benchmark lending rate down by 225 basis points in the past six months, are not close to an end.   

By mid-year, the implied fed funds rate is now about 1.40 percent.   

Analysts at 4CAST Ltd. in New York expect a 75 basis point rate cut on Tuesday and another 50 basis points at the April meeting.   

"The Fed has been trying to throw at the market everything but the kitchen sink," said 4CAST analyst Rudy Narvas.   

(Additional reporting Eric Burroughs, Tokyo: Editing by Neil Fullick)   
   RFMARKETS-RATEFUTURES (UPDATE 1)|LANGEN|ABN|M|E|RBN|D|U|NAT|J|UKI|ABX|BNX|FUN|RNP|DNP|PTD   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | e1202 : Interest Rates | m131 : Money Markets | m15 : Derivative Securities | ecat : Economic News | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCFED | CEN | MCE | DRV | STIR | MMT | DBT | FRX | INT | PLCY   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020080317e43h000p1  



 HDTREASURIES-Dip in Asia, taking breather before Fed      WC493 words   PD18 March 2008   ET06:01   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited   
   LPTOKYO, March 18 (Reuters) - U.S. Treasuries edged down in Asia on Tuesday as the market took a breather after the previous day's surge, but the benchmark 10-year note's yield stayed near half-century lows amid nagging concerns about the health of the U.S. financial system.   

Prices of Treasuries soared on Monday as investors scrambled for the safety of government bonds on fears that more financial institutions could become casualties in the deepening U.S. financial crisis that led to  JPMorgan Chase acquiring investment bank  Bear Stearns .   
   TDThe two-year yield on Tuesday held near a five-year low hit the previous day as investors braced for an aggressive Federal Reserve interest rate cut at its policy meeting later in the day.   

Futures on the federal funds rate <FEDWATCH> reflected expectations for a 100-basis-point cut to the benchmark interest rate, with an outside chance of the Fed cutting rates by 125 basis points.   

Analysts said another aggressive rate cut from the current 3.0 percent is almost inevitable given the severity of the crisis that prompted the Fed to cut its discount rate on Sunday, just two days before its policy meeting. The Fed also launched a new facility to open up discount window lending to major investment banks, a tool not used since the Great Depression. [ID:nN16640873]   

Yoshio Takahashi, a bond strategist at  Barclays Capital Japan, said that market moves were increasingly dependant on news about the credit market turmoil, and that they were losing their link to economic fundamentals.   

"It is difficult to put out a market outlook when we don't know what will come out of the troubles at financial firms, and policy moves to come could be something beyond what we have seen in the past," said Takahashi.   

Treasury futures <TYv1> dropped 3.5/32 to 119-23/32, retreating from a five-year high of 120 hit on Monday.   

The two-year note <US2YT=RR> was little changed from late U.S. trade on Monday in price to yield 1.340 percent after falling to as low as 1.248 percent the previous session, the lowest since mid-2003.   

The benchmark 10-year note <US10YT=RR> slid 4/32 in price to yield 3.313 percent, but stayed near the 50-year low hit in 2003 of around 3.10 percent.   

Analysts said the evidence is clear that the U.S. economy is struggling and may already be in a recession, and that the Fed has to aggressively loosen monetary policy to keep things from getting much worse.   

The Fed has lowered interest rates by 2.25 percentage points since September on top of the the central bank's array of initiatives to stem a liquidity squeeze. (Editing by Chris Gallagher)   
   RFMARKETS-TREASURIES-ASIA|LANGEN|RBN|ABN|M|J|D|NAT|AUF|E|U|MNI|RNP|DNP|PTD|PMF   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m131 : Money Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ntop : Dow Jones/Reuters Top Wire News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REasiaz : Asia | jap : Japan | usa : United States | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America   IPCDBT | GVD | INT | MCE | MMT | NEWS | DRV | STIR | MUNI | US/T | US/   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020080318e43i0008e  



 HDUS SWAPS-2Y spread widens in stock, commodity sell-off      BYBy Richard Leong      WC341 words   PD19 March 2008   ET21:22   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited   
   LPNEW YORK, March 19 (Reuters) - The yield spread on U.S. two-year interest rate swaps over Treasuries grew on Wednesday, as investors decided to book profits on stocks and commodities a day after the Federal Reserve lowered interest rates.   

Swap spreads were broadly narrower in early trading on lower interbank borrowing cost in reaction to the Fed's latest rate cut and news that the government easing of capital requirement on Fannie Mae and Freddie in a bid to help a distressed mortgage market.   
   TDBut a liquidation in commodities led by oil and gold, compounded by a late sell-off in stocks, eventually took a toll on short-dated swap spreads.   

"It is the absolute flight to safety," said Bryan Taylor, chief economist with Global Financial Data in Los Angeles. "People are just scared that non-government debt is risky."   

Longer swap spreads, on the other hand, finished tighter on a spike in demand for fixed-rate cash flows from mortgage players, analysts said.   

Major U.S. stock indexes fell as much as 2.5 percent in late trading. Oil and gold each fell nearly 6 percent.   

The resurgence in risk aversion led traders to favor U.S. government securities, especially Treasury bills, analysts said.   

The spread on two-year interest-rate swaps over Treasuries, which has grown with risk aversion, was quoted at 81.00 basis points compared with 76.25 basis points late Tuesday. It briefly touched 73.25 basis points, an 8-week tight earlier.   

Cost of longer cash-flow exchanges, however, ended lower on the day with sharp decline in longer-dated Treasury yields.   

Ten-year swap spread was 59.50 basis points versus 63.00 basis points late Tuesday, while 30-year spread was 29.00 basis points compared with 33.50 basis points late on Tuesday. (Additional reporting by John Parry; Editing by Neil Stempleman)   
   RFMARKETS-SWAPS|LANGEN|Table|ABN|D|M|MNI|E|RBN|U|RNP|DNP   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | m131 : Money Markets | m15 : Derivative Securities | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCFIN | INT | MCE | DBT | DRV | STIR | MMT | MUNI | SWP/ | EMBG:DBT | EMBG:SWP/ | embargokeyE2   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020080322e43j000h0  



 HDObama, Clinton say turmoil in financial markets show how weak is US economy      BYBy TOM RAUM      CRAssociated Press Writer   WC554 words   PD17 March 2008   ET18:12   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPMONACA, Pa. (AP) - Democratic Sen. Barack Obama said Monday the economy is in distress while rival Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton criticized President Bush for failing to exercise leadership to address the nation's economic problems.   

"Our economy is in a shambles," Obama said at a town hall meeting at a community college near Pittsburgh. "This economy is contracting, it is heading toward recession. We probably already are in one."   
   TDClinton told reporters in Washington: "At these times of stress and uncertainty we need to be vigilant to do everything in our power to maintain confidence in our financial system. I feel very strongly that we've got to have more urgency to continue the action that was started yesterday."   

The comments from the presidential candidates came after the Federal Reserve approved a $30 billion loan for a $2-a-share takeover by  JPMorgan Chase & Co. of  Bear Stearns & Co. to help keep the stricken investment bank -- one of the nation's largest -- from collapse. The Fed also lowered the rates it charges to loan directly to banks by a quarter-point, following moves last week to lend $100 billion in cash to banks and $200 billion in government bonds to cash-strapped Wall Street investment banks.   

"I'm not going to second guess the Fed," she said, either on its steps to consummate the sale of  Bear Stearns, on its decision to assume the risk of some of mortgage loans now assumed by  JP Morgan Chase or on a decision to cut a key interest rate.   

She complained about President Bush's handling of the problems.   

"Now we are in the soup and we better get ourselves out of it before the consequences get drastic," she told reporters in Washington.   

"Things weren't that great before we tipped into recession," Obama said.   

Contending that the current policy was inadequate, Obama reiterated earlier calls to offer tax breaks to companies that "invest right here in Pennsylvania and all across America" and to roll back tax cuts pushed through Congress by President Bush "and give those tax breaks to ordinary Americans who deserve them right now."   

He said: "Things weren't that great before we tipped into recession."   

As senator from New York, Clinton has received the most money from employees of large Wall Street firms, but Obama is not far behind.  Bear Stearns employees contributed the most to Clinton with total donations of $152,000. Likely Republican nominee John McCain received $47,000 from  Bear Stearns employees and Obama got $36,000.   

Obama is the biggest recipient of donations from  JPMorgan employees -- Obama received $270,000, Clinton's contributions were nearly $200,000 and McCain's were more than $60,000. According to McCain's latest personal financial disclosure report, his wife and dependent children had between $3 million and $7 million invested in  JPMorgan financial instruments.   

Clinton said she was "following the developments in our markets closely" after speaking Monday morning with Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson and New York Federal Reserve President Tim Geithner.   

"They both outlined the actions that were taken yesterday to insure liquidity and restore confidence in the market. I relayed to them my thoughts and concerns," she said.   
   RF7   CObsacoi : Bear Stearns & Co. Inc. | cnyc : JPMorgan Chase & Co. | berstn : The Bear Stearns Companies LLC   INi814 : Banking | i831 : Financial Investments | i83101 : Investment Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | iinv : Investing/Securities   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | gedu : Education | gpol : Domestic Politics | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations   REusa : United States | uspa : Pennsylvania | namz : North America | use : Northeast U.S.   IPCtagapf | selapfin | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | APFN Democrats Economy | D8VFAEE00   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020080317e43h00367  



 HDText of Fed statement on rate cut      BYBy The Associated Press      WC324 words   PD18 March 2008   ET19:35   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPThe Federal Reserve's interest rate statement released Tuesday:   

------   
   TDThe Federal Open Market Committee decided today to lower its target for the federal funds rate 75 basis points to 2-1/4 percent.   

Recent information indicates that the outlook for economic activity has weakened further. Growth in consumer spending has slowed and labor markets have softened. Financial markets remain under considerable stress, and the tightening of credit conditions and the deepening of the housing contraction are likely to weigh on economic growth over the next few quarters.   

Inflation has been elevated, and some indicators of inflation expectations have risen. The Committee expects inflation to moderate in coming quarters, reflecting a projected leveling-out of energy and other commodity prices and an easing of pressures on resource utilization. Still, uncertainty about the inflation outlook has increased. It will be necessary to continue to monitor inflation developments carefully.   

Today's policy action, combined with those taken earlier, including measures to foster market liquidity, should help to promote moderate growth over time and to mitigate the risks to economic activity. However, downside risks to growth remain. The Committee will act in a timely manner as needed to promote sustainable economic growth and price stability.   

Voting for the FOMC monetary policy action were: Ben S. Bernanke, Chairman; Timothy F. Geithner, Vice Chairman; Donald L. Kohn; Randall S. Kroszner; Frederic S. Mishkin; Sandra Pianalto; Gary H. Stern; and Kevin M. Warsh. Voting against were Richard W. Fisher and Charles I. Plosser, who preferred less aggressive action at this meeting.   

In a related action, the Board of Governors unanimously approved a 75-basis-point decrease in the discount rate to 2-1/2 percent. In taking this action, the Board approved the requests submitted by the Boards of Directors of the Federal Reserve Banks of Boston, New York, and San Francisco.   

------   

On the Net:   http://www.federalreserve.gov  .   
   RF7   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | e1101 : Economic Growth | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPCtagpf1wcat | sel----- | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | NA FIN US Fed Interest Rates Text | D8VG0O48E   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020080318e43i002jx  



 HDUPDATE 2-Bank-to-bank lending freezes; bankers ask "who's next?      BYBy Mike Dolan and Kirsten Donovan      WC1,123 words   PD17 March 2008   ET22:43   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited   
   LP(Updates share prices)   

LONDON, March 17 (Reuters) - Financial trading and interbank lending almost ground to a halt on Monday as banks grew fearful of dealing with each other following Friday's near collapse of U.S. investment firm  Bear Stearns , prompting talk of another round of coordinated central bank aid.   
   TDAs banking stock prices and the U.S. dollar plummeted, banks' access to unsecured borrowing from other banks fell to a relative trickle and dealers said the over-the-counter market had become highly discriminatory, depending on the bank name.   

The seizure in money markets was reflected in a dramatic 80 basis point surge in overnight dollar London interbank offered rates, the biggest daily increase since the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001.   

"Banks and institutions are just scrambling for cash, any cash they can get their hands on," said a money market trader at a European bank.   

"And it's seen as a U.S. market problem for the moment, or a dollar problem anyway," he said, noting the relatively modest increase in overnight euro and sterling Libor.   

Published dealing rates were unreliable and analysts said any bank that had not already secured funding further than a week or so would struggle to raise cash at all.   

"Bear's near-collapse and takeover accelerates the liquidity crunch and the money market crisis," Dresdner Kleinwort analyst Willem Sels told clients in a note.   

"Banks' risk aversion and sensitivity to counterparty risk should rise even further, leading to more pressure on hedge funds. Money markets are having a brutal wake-up call."   

As various pockets of the global short-term credit market froze, investors flocked into Treasury bills and cash-like investment to shelter their money from the credit turmoil.   

For example, the three-month T-bill yield, seen as a "risk-free" return on U.S. assets, briefly fell below 1 percent to its lowest level in about five decades.   

COMING TO TERMS   

Bankers said they were struggling to assess developments since the New York Federal Reserve said on Friday it was propping up the stricken firm via Wall St bank  JP Morgan , and intense concerns about the stability and solvency of financial counterparties caused dealing volumes in lending markets to seize up.   

In an effort to minimise the fallout and in conjunction with the fire sale of  Bear Stearns to  JP Morgan, the Fed on Sunday cut its discount lending rate by a quarter percentage point to 3.25 percent and announced another series of liquidity measures.   

But with concerns about whether other firms may meet a similar fate to  Bear Stearns, nerves on every trade were jangled.   

"It's quite illiquid this morning. If you want unsecured cash you're really going to have to pay up for it. It's really quite an intense situation," said Calyon analyst David Keeble.   

Banks led the losers as stock markets lost more than 3 percent.  Royal Bank of Scotland and  Barclays fell more than 8 percent.  HBOS slid more than 11 percent and  Alliance & Leicester shed more than 7 percent.   

Shares in  Lehman Brothers dropped as much as 46 percent before ending the day down 19 percent in U.S. trading.   

"There's turmoil in all markets after  Bear Stearns," said  BNP Paribas strategist Edmund Shing. "Everyone's asking: Who's next? Is there a  Bear Stearns in Europe? Could investment banks start to fail?"   

The problem was said to be particularly acute in sterling markets, with the gap between indicative three-month interbank borrowing rates and the Bank of England loans more than 70 basis points -- the highest for the year.   

Some analysts said major players on the interbank market had been doing as little as 700 million pounds a day of business over the past week, a fraction of the several billions that would have been executed a year ago, and far less on Monday.   

"Counterparty risk is back in play, every trade is being scrutinised ahead of time," one interest rate trader said. "   

The stress in the market forced the UK central bank to make an emergency offer of five billion pounds of three-day funds.   

"This action is being taken in response to conditions in the short-term money markets this morning," the bank said in a statement. "Along with other central banks, the Bank of England is closely monitoring market conditions."   

For policy-makers and traders looking for encouraging signs in the credit market, at least in the United States, the yield spread on two-year interest rate swaps over Treasuries, a gauge of risk aversion, shrank to its tightest since mid-February.   

U.S. federal funds, or overnight loans on surplus bank reserves, fell to 2.00 percent in late trading, more than a full percentage point below their session high of 3.5 percent.   

PROBLEMS EVERYWHERE   

Three-month euro interbank rates were also some 65 basis points above ECB rates, compared with around 40 basis points at the start of the month. The spread reached a peak of around 90 at the end of last year.   

Dollar spreads were also wider than on Friday but heavy discounting of further Fed rate cuts have meant the spread has actually narrowed this month to around 65 versus 80 basis points at the start of March.   

The European Central Bank declined to comment, even though speculation of coordinated central bank statements, liquidity injections and even synchronised rate cuts circulated around markets.   

A German Finance Ministry spokesman said no extraordinary meetings of the Group of Seven economic powers was planned. "We're watching developments very closely in the United States."   

But International Monetary Fund chief Dominique Strauss-Kahn said the global financial markets crisis was worsening and risk of contagion was increasing.   

With the dollar sliding to record lows, traders said currency options markets were seizing up too, another reflection of the state of panic and fear that appears to be dominating all financial markets.   

Implied volatilities on FX options, a measure of expected volatility in the underlying asset price and investors' demand to protect themselves against these moves, soared on Monday.   

As the dollar sank to 13-year lows against the yen further below 100 yen, one-week dollar/yen implied "vols" <JPYSWO=> jumped to 25 percent, a level not seen since 1999.   

"This is a market where you should be on your guard. Shorting options is quite a difficult position to manage," said the senior FX trader in Tokyo. (Reporting by Jamie McGeever and Sitaraman Shankar in London and Richard Leong in New York)   
   RFMARKETS-SEIZURE (UPDATE 2)|LANGEN|ABN|D|E|RBN|U|M|RNP|DNP   INibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REeurz : Europe | malta : Malta | uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | weurz : Western Europe | eecz : European Union Countries | medz : Mediterranean | namz : North America   IPCSTIR | MCE | DRV | FIN | BNK | FUND | GVD | DBT | INT | CEN | PLCY   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020080317e43h002js  



 HDUS TREASURY OUTLOOK-How big will the rate cut be?      BYBy Chris Reese      WC585 words   PD17 March 2008   ET21:28   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited   
   LPNEW YORK, March 17 (Reuters) - With nearly everyone expecting the Federal Reserve to cut the recommended overnight lending rate between banks at a policy meeting on Tuesday, the big question is, By how much?   

The central bank's efforts over the past few days -- adding new lending facilities and extending a credit line to support a buyout of troubled  Bear Stearns -- has cast some doubt on just how far the Fed will move to cut rates.   
   TDOn one hand, analysts said the evidence is clear that the U.S. economy is struggling and may already be in recession, and that the Fed has to aggressively loosen monetary policy to keep things from getting much worse.   

On the other hand, Fed officials may be of a mind that after cutting the recommended federal funds rate by 2.25 percentage points since September, looser monetary policy is not really giving the economy much of a boost and their efforts might be better served by instruments like the new lending facilities.   

"Talk is still of a large cut tomorrow -- the only way we can see that helping the markets is if there is a coordinated cut with other central banks. Otherwise the dollar will continue to lose value," said Andrew Brenner, senior vice president at  MF Global in New York.   

Fed fund futures on Monday implied traders are fully pricing in a cut of 1 percentage point in fed funds on Tuesday, from the current fed funds level of 3 percent to 2 percent.   

A cut of 1 percentage point could spur an extension of the bond price rally that has held sway since June. Any cut by less than 1 percent could have traders selling bonds and pushing yields higher.   

"Interest rates on their own cannot solve a credit crisis -- this cycle has always been more about the availability of credit rather than its price," said David Rosenberg, North American economist at  Merrill Lynch in New York.   

Bonds surged on Monday after the Fed on Sunday said it would offer a $30 billion line of credit to help  JPMorgan Chase & Co buy Bear Stearns Co Inc , which had investors continuing to seek out safe-haven assets.   

"For the Fed, the focus has shifted from broad monetary policy considerations to the more immediate 'lender of last resort' role for the central bank, and we assume that the Fed will do what it thinks is necessary to achieve market stability," said Michael Englund, economist at Action Economics in Boulder, Colorado.   

"Our assumption for now will be a 100 basis point easing, though it's certainly hard to calibrate what would strike each (Fed voting) member as necessary. Presumably the Fed will see futures pricing as a useful gauge, and these prices are dancing around expectations of just more than 100 basis points of easing," he said.   

Aside from the release of the Fed's policy decision and the accompanying statement, some economic data is scheduled for Tuesday, including February U.S. housing starts and the February producer price index.   

The data, however, is not expected to have a terrific impact on the bond market as investors wait to see if Fed officials still think they need to aggressively cut interest rates, or even whether aggressive interest rate cuts will give the economy any more of a boost. (Editing by Leslie Adler)   
   RFMARKETS-BONDS-OUTLOOK|LANGEN|ABN|D|E|RBN|U|MNI|M   NSe1122 : Mortgage Applications/Refinancing | e1202 : Interest Rates | m131 : Money Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCMMT | DBT | GVD | AGN | MTG | STIR | MCE | MUNI | US/O | EMBG:DBT | embargokeyE1   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020080320e43h001ot  



 HDTREASURIES-Bonds gain as stock slide revives safety bid      BYBy Ellen Freilich      WC552 words   PD19 March 2008   ET14:15   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited   
   LP(Updates prices, adds comment)   

NEW YORK, March 19 (Reuters) - Treasury debt prices rallied on Wednesday as a backslide in U.S. stock prices revived investors' appetite for safe-haven bonds.   
   TDThe moves mostly reversed those of the previous session, when stocks rallied on recent Federal Reserve liqidity measures and Tuesday's large interest-rate cut and bonds retreated.   

The blue-chip Dow Jones industrial average <.DJI>, the S&P 500 stock index <.SPX> and the Nasdaq composite index <.IXIC> each fell more than 2 percent, erasing a majority of the previous day's gains.   

"The stock market fell so bonds rose," said Thomas Higgins, chief economist at Payden & Rygel in Los Angeles. "Even though stocks had a huge rally Tuesday, people realize there's no quick fix to these problems."   

A drop in U.S. crude oil prices of more than $5 per barrel near $104 in a broad commodities sell-off temporarily soothed investors jitters' about inflation, boosting long-dated bonds. Inflation is anathema to fixed-income investors because it erodes the value of the income.   

The benchmark 10-year Treasury note price, which moves inversely to its yield, jumped 1-11/32 while its yield eased to 3.34 percent <US10YT=RR>, from 3.50 percent late on Tuesday when the 10-year yield rose 17 basis points in its biggest single-day leap in nearly four years.   

Besides reacting to the stock market retreat, trades that narrowed the difference between short- and long-term yields were popular, said John Canavan, market analyst at Stone and McCarthy Research Associates.   

In late trade, the difference between 2- and 10-year yields had narrowed to 185 basis points from 187 basis points late on Tuesday and 199 basis points late on Friday.   

"There was a little bit of profit-taking when the 2- to 10-year spread reached the 200-basis-point area and when the 2- to 30-year spread reached 300 basis points," Canavan said.   

Driving some profit-taking in short maturities was the possibility that the Fed's rate cut and other initiatives the central bank has taken to revive lending could allow markets to calm down, a development that could remove some of the safety bid for short-term U.S. government debt, Canavan said.   

Early in the session, Treasuries price gains were briefly capped after a government regulator cleared the way for Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac to buy more mortgages.   

"A lot of mortgage originators have left the business so this step will allow more mortgages to be underwritten," said Chris Rupkey, chief financial economist at  Bank of Tokyo/Mitsubishi, referring to news that the regulator of Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac had eased capital requirements for the two firms to provide up to $200 billion in immediate liquidity for stressed mortgage markets.   

The Fed slashed its benchmark federal funds rate by 75 basis points to its lowest level since February 2005.   

The 2-year Treasury note's price was up 10/32, its yield <US2YT=RR> easing to 1.47 percent from 1.64 percent late Tuesday.   

(Editing by Chizu Nomiyama,)   
   RFMARKETS-BONDS (UPDATE 4)|LANGEN|ABN|E|RBN|D|U|M|MNI|J|UKI|AUF|RNP|DNP   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m131 : Money Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ntop : Dow Jones/Reuters Top Wire News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCDBT | GVD | MUNI | INT | MCE | STIR | MMT | NEWS | US/ | US/N | XXSNPT | EMBG:DBT | embargokeyE1R1:1   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020080319e43j000yc  



 HDRPT-Emerging debt-Markets rally on U.S. rate cuts      BYBy Daniel Bases      WC720 words   PD18 March 2008   ET22:20   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited   
   LP(Repeats to additional subscribers)   

NEW YORK, March 18 (Reuters) - Emerging market assets rose on Tuesday after the U.S. Federal Reserve took another stab at trying to shore up a teetering U.S. financial system by cutting interest rates three-quarters of a percentage point.   
   TDHowever, expectations of a full percentage point reduction in the base lending rate led to disappointment for some investors, who then trimmed early gains in emerging market currencies.   

The Fed lowered its benchmark fed funds rate for short-term lending between banks to 2.25 percent and the discount rate for direct lending to banks by the Fed to 2.5 percent.   

The moves come after the Fed on March 16 announced emergency measures to stem a global financial crisis, including setting up a program to provide cash to a wider range of financial institutions and approving special financing to help  JPMorgan Chase buy investment bank  Bear Stearns.

Emerging markets benefit from a strong U.S. economy through the export of value added goods and high-priced commodities.   

Sovereign emerging debt yield spreads contracted sharply ahead of the move and held their positions in the aftermath.   

The sector has become somewhat of a safe haven due to a dearth of new issuance from robust economies benefiting from high commodity prices.   

The benchmark  JP Morgan Emerging Markets Bond Index Plus <11EMJ><.JPMEMBIPLUS> showed yield spreads tighten by 24 basis points to 303 basis points over weaker U.S. Treasuries.   

The move came largely ahead of the Fed's decision and was mainly due to the decline in U.S. Treasury prices. Total returns for the index were up just 0.87 basis point, but that was enough to push it into positive territory year-to-date.   

Cutting interest rates, historically a growth-bolstering move by central banks, does not eliminate the root cause of the problem -- the massive debt in the credit markets.   

"It is a relief the markets were expecting but does not solve the leverage problems," said Drausio Giacomelli, head of emerging markets strategy at  Deutsche Bank in New York.   

"The environment for credit is still negative. Emerging markets will likely continue to outperform because it is less leveraged, but that doesn't mean it will tighten," he said.   

Among the benchmark sovereign issues, Brazil's 2040 bond <BRAGLB40=RR> climbed 0.75 point in price to bid 133.313, yielding 5.463 percent.   

Turkey, considered highly vulnerable to the vagaries of international capital flows because of its large current account deficit, saw its 2030 bond <TRGLB30=RR> rally back from big losses on Monday to rise 1.88 points in price, bidding 150.063, yielding 7.264 percent.   

STOCKS   

Emerging market stocks rallied along with core markets as the Fed's move dovetailed with earnings from major Wall Street banks that were not as dire as expected. This rekindled hope that financial market distress might start to dissipate.   

The benchmark American  Standard & Poor's 500 stock index <.SPX> gained more than 4 percent, its biggest one-day gain since October 2002.   

The Morgan Stanley Capital International emerging markets stock index <.MSCIEF> rose more than 2 percent while the Latin American stock index <.MILA00000PUS> gained nearly 4 percent.   

High-yielding Latin American currencies, supported by the now even larger interest rate differential with the United States, plus commodity prices near record highs, have created a sweet spot for the sector.   

"However, some market participants were considering a rate cut of at least 100 basis points. In this sense, markets might start showing some disappointment after the Fed decision. Then it should not be a surprise if markets start to adjust downward after the monetary move,"  Moody's Economy.com wrote in a research note.   

The Mexican peso's gains <MXN=><MEX01> were trimmed from an initial rally but it still rose 0.71 percent to 10.6780 per dollar while the Mexican benchmark IPC stock index <.MXX> rose 1.77 percent.   

Brazil's real <BRBY><BRL=> closed up 1.91 percent against the dollar to 1.691 while the Sao Paulo Stock Exchange's Bovespa index <.BVSP> climbed 2.99 percent. (Editing by Dan Grebler)   
   RFMARKETS-EMERGINGDEBT/ (REFILE)|LANGEN|ABN|M|D|E|RBN|U|RNP|DNP   NSmgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | e1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REasiaz : Asia | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | eurz : Europe | usa : United States | namz : North America   IPCDBT | GVD | EMRG/DBT | EMBG:DBT | EMBG:EMRG/DBT | embargokeyE2E2   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020080321e43i0013r  



 HDPOLL-Wall St sees more, albeit smaller, rate cuts ahead      BYBy Pedro Nicolaci da Costa      WC532 words   PD18 March 2008   ET22:38   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited   
   LPNEW YORK, March 18 (Reuters) - Wall Street dealers all see the Federal Reserve slashing interest rates further next month, but any future cuts are likely to be smaller as the central bank depletes its stock of monetary ammunition.   

The Reuters poll was conducted following the Fed's 0.75 percentage point rate cut on Tuesday, which brought the benchmark federal funds rate to 2.25 percent, a more than two-year low.   
   TDThe survey of primary dealers, which do business directly with the central bank, found that 10 of 16 banks expect the Fed to cut rates by another half percentage point in April, with the remaining institutions looking for a more incremental quarter point.   

The Fed's rate cut on Tuesday was seen as another effort to prevent a rusty financial system from seizing up completely, which could threaten to send the country into a deep recession.   

But renewed attention on inflation in the Fed's statement, and a dissenting vote by two of the more inflation-wary central bank members, seemed to signal the beginning of a shift.   

"They are looking to slow down the pace of rate cuts going forward," said Carl Lantz, U.S. interest rate strategist at  Credit Suisse.

Still, the troubles in financial markets in recent weeks, culminating in a Fed-backed fire-sale of  Bear Stearns by  JPMorgan Chase at just $2 a share, have convinced investors that policy-makers would rather err on the side of doing too much.   

Analysts reason a recession that many think is already under way will eventually bring consumer prices under control, making them less fearful of rising near-term inflation.   

This means the Fed can afford to push rates even lower. The median forecast for an end-of-cycle fed funds rate fell to 1.625 percent in the latest poll, from 2 percent just two weeks ago.   


                            FF Rate   When Will
                  Fed       Fed       at Easing  Easing
                  Action    Action    Cycle      Cycle
COMPANY              April 30  June 25   End        End?
--------------------------------------------------------------
Banc of America      Cut 50    Cut 25    1.50       June
 Barclays Capital       
Bear, Stearns        Cut 50    No Move   1.75       April
 BNP Paribas          Cut 50    Cut 50    1.00       Q3
 Cantor Fitzgerald    Cut 50    Cut 25    1.50       June
 Citigroup              
Countrywide          Cut 25    Cut 25    1.50       Q3 2009
 Credit Suisse        Cut 25    -         2.00       -
Daiwa Securities     Cut 25    No Move   2.00       April
 Deutsche Bank        Cut 50    Cut 25    1.50       June
Dresdner             Cut 25    No Move   2.00       April
Goldman, Sachs          
HSBC Securities      Cut 50    No Move   1.00       Q1 2009
 JPMorgan             Cut 50    No Move   1.75       April
 Lehman Brothers      Cut 50    Cut 50    1.00       Q1 2009
Merrill Lynch          
Mizuho Securities    Cut 25    No Move   2.00       April
 Morgan Stanley       Cut 50    No Move   1.75       April
RBS Greenwich        Cut 50    Cut 25    1.50       June
UBS Securities       Cut 25    Cut 25    1.50       Aug
   

(Additional reporting by Pam Niimi, Caryn Trokie, Richard Leong, Burton Frierson, Chris Reese, Ellen Freilich, John Parry; Editing by Leslie Adler)   
   RFUSA-FED/(POLL)|LANGEN|Table|ABN|E|RBN|M|D|U|MNI   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCPRE | GVD | DBT | FED | INT | MCE | POLL | CEN | STIR | PLCY | FED/R | EMBG:DBT | EMBG:PLCY | EMBG:FED/R | embargokeyE2   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020080321e43i00148  



 HDWall Street firms see Fed cutting at least 75 bps      BYBy Richard Leong      WC550 words   PD18 March 2008   ET17:10   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited   
   LPNEW YORK, March 18 (Reuters) - Nearly all U.S. primary dealers now believe in the wake of  Bear Stearns' near collapse that the Federal Reserve will cut key short-term rates by at least three-quarters of a percentage point on Tuesday.   

Earlier this month, they had believed a half-point cut would suffice to help keep the economy from spiraling into a recession.   
   TDSeven of the 20 Wall Street firms, which do business directly with the Fed, predict that the U.S. central bank will lower its target rate on federal funds by a full point to 2.00 percent from 3.00 percent. If that happens, it would be the first time in more than 25 years since the Fed made such a steep rate cut.   

The bond dealers forecasting such a bold rate cut include Banc of America Securities,  Citigroup,  Deutsche Bank,  Goldman Sachs, HSBC Securities and UBS Securities.   

Heightened jitters from the liquidity crisis at  Bear Stearns -- whose own economists are looking for a full-point cut -- have raised expectations for the Fed to aggressively reduce interest rates to complement the array of inventive moves to combat a corrosive global credit crunch.   

"It's hard to predict when the Fed will stop cutting rates until the financial market stabilizes," said Jonathan Basile, economist at  Credit Suisse in New York on Tuesday.   

The Federal Open Market Committee, the Fed's rate-setting group, is expected to announce its rate decision and issue a policy statement at about 2:15 p.m. (1815 GMT).   

A majority of primary dealers expected the Fed to lower the benchmark rate by three-quarters of a point to 2.25 percent. Some of them said they are not ruling out a full-point cut.   

The Fed's rate-setting committee "may want to impress markets with the seriousness of its intent to stabilize the financial market situation by using the tools at its disposal to the fullest reasonable extent," Kevin Logan, senior U.S. economist at Dresdner Kleinwort, wrote in a research report on Tuesday.   

In a Reuters poll conducted in early March, only four of 16 dealers surveyed forecast a 75 basis-point cut from the Fed at its meeting this month. The rest predicted only a 50- basis-point rate cut.   

As of Tuesday,  Barclays Capital was the sole Wall Street firm predicting a rate cut of only 50 basis points.   

Traders, meanwhile, had been looking for even bigger rate cuts than analysts due to the credit turmoil.   

But the markets have now ruled out the "nuclear option" of a 125-basis-point rate cut that some had expected earlier in the session. A slash of that magnitude -- no longer seen as an option -- would take the fed funds rate target down to 1.75 percent.   

U.S. interest-rate futures at midday on Tuesday showed an 88 percent chance of a 1-percentage-point, or 100-basis-point, cut, leaving only a 12 percent chance for a three-quarters of a point, or 75-basis-point, reduction. (Additional reporting by Ros Krasny) (Reporting by Richard Leong; Editing by Jan Paschal)   
   RFUSA-FED/WALLSTREET|LANGEN|ABN|D|M|E|RBN|U|MNI|RNP|DNP   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCFED | DBT | FIN | RAT | GVD | INT | MCE | CEN | PLCY | FUND | STIR | DRV | BNK   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020080318e43i00198  



 HDUS gold falls below $1,000/oz after Fed cuts rates      WC142 words   PD18 March 2008   ET19:28   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited   
   LPNEW YORK, March 18 (Reuters) - U.S. gold futures turned lower in Tuesday's afternoon electronic session, trading below $1,000 an ounce after the Federal Reserve slashed its target interest rate by a less-than-expected 75 basis points to 2.25 percent.   

At 2:20 p.m. EDT (1820 GMT), the active gold contract for April delivery <GCJ8> was down $6.20 to $996.40 an ounce. Just before the Fed announcement, it had traded up $1.10 at $1,003.40.   
   TDWall Street had forecast the Fed could slash the Fed Funds rate by 100 basis points. (Reporting by Frank Tang; Editing by Marguerita Choy)   
   RFMARKETS-GOLD (URGENT)|LANGEN|UKI|ABN|E|RBN|C|MTL|M|U|D|J|CANT|GRO|SOF|Z|O|OIL   INimet : Metals/Mining   NSm15 : Derivative Securities | ntop : Dow Jones/Reuters Top Wire News | e1202 : Interest Rates | m1421 : Gold Markets | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m14 : Commodity Markets | m142 : Metals Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mpcsmt : Precious Metals Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REasiaz : Asia | safr : South Africa | usa : United States | weurz : Western Europe | africaz : Africa | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | souafrz : Southern Africa   IPCMET | NEWS | GOL | GDM | DRV | FRX   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020080318e43i001ee  



 HDFINEWS-US investment grade credit derivative index widens     WC70 words   PD18 March 2008   ET19:24   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited   
   LPThe U.S. investment grade credit derivative index weakened on Tuesday after the Federal Reserve cut a key interest rate by 75 basis points to 2.25 basis points. The index widened around 2.5 basis points to 178 basis points, according to Markit Intraday. Reuters Messaging: rm://karen.brettell.reuters.com@reuters.net  
   RFLANGEN|ABN|M|D   NSm15 : Derivative Securities | e1202 : Interest Rates | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCFINEWS | CDV   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020080318e43i001er  



 HDGLOBAL ECONOMY WEEKAHEAD-US dollar caught in Fed, ECB cross-fire      BYBy Emily Kaiser      WC868 words   PD17 March 2008   ET13:00   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited   
   LP(Repeats item moved on Sunday, March 16)   

WASHINGTON, March 17 (Reuters) - The U.S. Federal Reserve is poised to cut interest rates again this week while the European Central Bank remains on hold for a while, leaving the beleaguered U.S. dollar caught in the cross-fire.   
   TDThe slumping U.S. currency has contributed to oil's climb to $111 per barrel. It is part of the reason behind investors' mad dash to buy other commodities, ranging from wheat to gold. The slide is also feeding malaise among European exporters struggling to compete with cheaper U.S. goods, and prompting some big oil exporters who pegged their own currency to the dollar to rethink that policy.   

While calls have intensified for official government intervention to stem the dollar's decline, Washington has shown no inclination to act. Finance leaders in Europe and Japan ratcheted up the rhetoric last week as the dollar hit an all-time low against the euro, and sank below 100 yen for the first time in more than a decade. So far, it remains all talk.   

Only the Bank of Israel stepped in last week with official action, twice buying foreign currency to cool the shekel, which had hit an 11-year peak against the dollar.   

Goldman Sachs strategists called the Bank of Israel's moves "a sign that the pace of dollar decline is becoming more uncomfortable in places."   

That discomfort is apparent in recent comments from world leaders. British Prime Minister Gordon Brown said volatility in currency rates "obviously worries people." European Union leaders repeated their view that excessive currency moves are "undesirable," although Eurogroup Chairman Jean-Claude Juncker said on Friday they did not discuss any intervention.   

In Japan, Chief Cabinet Secretary Nobutaka Machimura said the yen's moves seemed to reflect dollar weakness rather than yen strength. "As for currency intervention, I will not comment," he said at a news conference on Friday.   

U.S. President George W. Bush acknowledged last week that the weakening dollar was contributing to oil's steep upward march. But Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson, the main spokesman for the U.S. currency, stuck to his well-worn script, saying a strong dollar was in the nation's best interest, and healthy long-term U.S. fundamentals would be reflected in exchange rates.   

EASY TARGET   

Investors have plenty of reason to dislike the dollar. First and foremost, there is the matter of interest rates. Official U.S. rates are lower than those in the euro zone and are set to fall further this week. Then there is the widespread worry that the U.S. economy may have already tipped into a recession.   

Ultimately, the weak greenback may force the U.S. central bank to truncate its rate-cutting campaign, should inflation spiral out of control.   

However, for at least the foreseeable future, the Fed is full steam ahead. Another set of credit shocks and another round of gloomy economic pronouncements have left little doubt in investors' minds that the U.S. central bank will shave three-quarters of a percentage point off its benchmark interest rate when its policy-setting committee meets on Tuesday.   

An unexpected drop in February U.S. retail sales, hard on the heels of a report showing a sharp contraction in the job market, cemented Wall Street's view that the world's biggest economy was tipping into recession and could drag everyone else down with it.   

A three-quarter-point cut would take the federal funds rate to 2.25 percent, the lowest since December 2004 and less than half of what it was before failing U.S. subprime mortgages froze credit markets last summer.   

Across the Atlantic, the ECB and  Swiss National Bank both cut their growth forecasts this month, but jacked up inflation expectations. That led investors to conclude that the ECB is unlikely to budge until inflation cools, even as European companies howl over faltering exports. Unlike the Fed, which is tasked with the often-contradictory missions of taming inflation and promoting full employment, the ECB has one main focus -- price stability.   

A report on Friday suggested euro zone exporters have good reason to be concerned. The ECB report showed euro zone exports were less competitive during the last 12 months, and the pace of erosion was faster than in the previous year.   

The International Monetary Fund gave a grim assessment of the world economy on March 12, warning that the credit crisis that began with failing U.S. subprime mortgages was worsening and global growth was at risk. But the Fund also said both the Fed and ECB were acting appropriately.   

"The signs of economic distress are much clearer in the U.S. than in the European economy," John Lipsky, IMF first deputy managing director, told Reuters in a recent interview. "There's no subprime mortgage (market) to be melting down."   

That also means no relief in sight for the dollar. (Editing by Dan Grebler)   
   RFECONOMY-WEEKAHEAD/OUTLOOK (REPEAT)|LANGEN|ABN|C|D|E|M|O|U|MTL|GRO|SOF|OIL|ABX|BNX|AFA|CSA|LBY|RWSA|RWS|REULB|GNS   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | ecbnk : European Central Bank | m15 : Derivative Securities | ntop : Dow Jones/Reuters Top Wire News | e1202 : Interest Rates | e52 : Euro Zone/Currency | ecat : Economic News | eec : European Union | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations   REasiaz : Asia | eurz : Europe | usa : United States | namz : North America   IPCMCE | INT | CEN | DBT | PLCY | ECB | GVD | FED | DRV | CDV | NEWS | EMBG:DBT | EMBG:PLCY | embargokeyE1E1   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020080320e43h000p6  



 HDPhilippine Debt-Yields seen higher on U.S. credit woes      WC550 words   PD17 March 2008   ET05:25   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited   
   LPMANILA, March 17 (Reuters) - Philippine debt yields will likely edge higher in the shortened trading week as news of a deepening credit crisis in the United States ramps up investors' fears, traders said on Monday.   

Yields in the secondary market, which dropped as much as 20 basis points last week, are expected to trade 10 basis points higher after news that  JPMorgan Chase & Co bought stricken rival  Bear Stearns at firesale prices and the Federal Reserve set an emergency interest rate cut on Sunday.   
   TD"We got a lot of bad news from overseas and we have seen news about  Bear Stearns," said a trader from a local bank. "There is that negative overhang for the rest of the week."   

The Fed cut the discount rate it charges on direct loans to banks to 3.25 percent from 3.5 percent, effectively immediately, and opened direct lending to Wall Street. Traders said expectations the Fed may slash the interbank overnight fed funds rate by as much as 1 percentage point on Tuesday will not be enough to improve local investor sentiment as the Philippine central bank is unlikely to match the move due to climbing inflation.   

The central bank has often matched U.S. rate cuts to maintain the yield differential and protect local growth amid global uncertainty.   

Last week, the monetary authority effectively pumped funds into the market by cutting rates on its Special Deposit Accounts and removing half of the available tenures. The move pushed local debt yields 20 basis points lower on Friday.   

The government plans to sell 6.5 billion pesos ($156 million) worth of 91-day, 182-day, 364-day Treasury bills at 0500 GMT and traders expect yields to rise about 20 basis points from the last successful auction on Jan. 21.   

Traders said the Bureau of Treasury should see a revived appetite for short-term debt after the central bank effectively eased monetary policy on Thursday.   

Philippine markets will finish trading on Wednesday ahead of Easter holidays.   


  Average best bids and done deals in the secondary market*:
                            BEST BIDS         DONE DEALS
                         March 17  March 10  March 17 March
10
                                        (in percent)
three-month   <PH3MT=RR>    4.6569    4.7154     4.6000  4.6000
six-month     <PH6MT=RR>    5.5269    5.5931     5.4750  5.5000
one-year      <PH1YT=RR>    5.8365    6.1885     5.7250  6.1250
two-year      <PH2YT=RR>    6.3615    6.3250     6.2500  6.2500
three-year    <PH3YT=RR>    6.4327    6.4058     6.1275  6.3000
four-year     <PH4YT=RR>    6.5365    6.5250     6.2438  6.4500
five-year     <PH5YT=RR>    6.7346    6.6173     6.2975  6.4900
seven-year    <PH7YT=RR>    6.9442    6.9365     6.6500  6.8500
10-year      <PH10YT=RR>    7.1500    7.1827     7.0000  7.1000
20-year      <PH20YT=RR>    8.5462    8.4558     8.4506  8.1396
25-year      <PH25YT=RR>    8.7019    8.6750     8.6000  8.6000
   

*Values based on fixing by the Philippine Dealing and Exchange Corp (PDEX) as of 11:17 a.m. (0317 GMT).   

($1=41.54 Philippine Peso)   

(Reporting by Karen Lema, Editing by Jacqueline Wong)   
   RFPHILIPPINES-MARKETS/DEBT|LANGEN|Table|ABN|M|D|PHD|RBN|RNP|DNP|PTD|PMF   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REasiaz : Asia | phlns : Philippines | usa : United States | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | namz : North America | seasiaz : Southeast Asia   IPCGVD | DBT | HYD | INT | MCE | STIR   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020080317e43h000ji  



 HDTREASURIES-Surge in Asia as  JPMorgan takes over  Bear Stearns   BYBy Eric Burroughs      WC625 words   PD17 March 2008   ET01:41   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited   
   LPTOKYO, March 17 (Reuters) - U.S. Treasuries soared on Monday and the benchmark 10-year note's yield fell back near half-century lows as the U.S. financial crisis suffered a new downturn, prompting  JPMorgan Chase to take over  Bear Stearns and the Federal Reserve to launch emergency measures.   

The Fed cut its discount rate by a quarter-point to 3.25 percent and launched a new facility that would allow U.S. primary dealers, which are mainly investment banks, to tap the discount window in a tool not used since the Great Depression. [ID:nN16640873]   
   TDThe severity of the crisis, as highlighted by the flurry of events on a Sunday in the United States, sent shockwaves through Asia on Monday as investors feared that another casualty was likely to crop up after the  Bear Stearns downfall.   

Futures on the federal funds rate <FEDWATCH> were pricing in a small chance of a rate cut or cuts totaling 125 basis points by the end of the Fed's policy meeting on Tuesday and fully pricing in 100 basis points of cuts.   

Such a cut in a single move would be among the most aggressive slashes in the modern history of the Fed, on top of the central bank's array of initiatives to stem a liquidity squeeze that has ensnared the $7 trillion mortgage bond market.   

Investors also fretted about what U.S. investment banks will report when releasing their first-quarter earnings starting this week.   

"The market is nervous about more casualties from the credit crisis," said Masatoshi Moriyama, senior economist at Mitsubishi UFJ Securities.   

"The Fed is behind the curve in taking actions to pump liquidity into the market, which has only stoked speculation that more financial firms are going to be in trouble just like  Bear Stearns. Investors are running for safety."   

Benchmark 10-year Treasury notes <US10YT=RR> jumped 1-3/32 in price to yield 3.343 percent, tumbling 13 basis points from late U.S. trade on Friday.   

The drop took 10-year yields to within 25 basis points of 50-year lows last hit in mid-2003 when the Fed cut rates to just 1 percent.   

The two-year note <US2YT=RR>, the most sensitive to the U.S. policy outlook, surged 13/32 in price to yield 1.293 percent and touched a five-year low of 1.249 percent.   

June T-note futures <TYv1> jumped 18/32 to 119-21/32.   

The dollar plunged amid deepening fears that a solution to the problems plaguing the U.S. financial system, which stem from the rising defaults on home mortgages, will not come quickly and will prolong the economy's likely fall into a recession.   

The dollar tumbled 3 percent against the yen at one point to hit a 13-year low of 95.77 yen <JPY=>, while the euro touched a record peak above $1.5900 <EUR=>. [FRX/]   

The dollar's slide and the rush for safety drove gold prices to a record peak over $1,030 <XAU=> an ounce. [GOL/]   

Even as the turmoil gripping the financial system inflicted more damage on credit spreads, conditions in the interest-rate swaps market showed more signs of improving.   

The two-year U.S. swap spread <USD2YTS=RR> was quoted at 82.5 basis points in Asia, tightening by a sharp 6 basis points from U.S. trade on Friday and shrinking by 30 bassis points from a record peak hit earlier this month. (Additional reporting by Satomi Noguchi; editing by Gary Crosse)   
   RFMARKETS-TREASURIES-ASIA (UPDATE 1)|LANGEN|RBN|ABN|M|J|D|NAT|AUF|E|U|MNI|RNP|DNP|PTD|PMF   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | m131 : Money Markets | ntop : Dow Jones/Reuters Top Wire News | ecat : Economic News | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REasiaz : Asia | jap : Japan | usa : United States | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America   IPCDBT | GVD | INT | MCE | MMT | NEWS | PLCY | DRV | STIR | MUNI | US/T | US/   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020080317e43h000ul  



 HDUS RATE FUTURES-Trim ideas of 50 bps April Fed cut   WC124 words   PD19 March 2008   ET16:29   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited   
   LPCHICAGO, March 19 (Reuters) - U.S. short-term interest rate futures fell on Wednesday in step with a flattening in the Treasury yield curve as dealers reassessed the outlook for additional Federal Reserve rate cuts.

The implied prospects for the Fed to slash its benchmark lending rate by another one-half percentage point in April, to 1.75 percent, fell as low as 52 percent from 74 percent late on Tuesday.
   TDFutures fully price a one-quarter point rate cut at next month's policy meeting, to 2 percent. (Reporting by Ros Krasny; Editing by Tom Hals)
   RFMARKETS-RATEFUTURES (URGENT)|LANGEN|ABN|E|RBN|D|U|M|MNI|RNP|DNP   NSe1201 : Central Bank Intervention | e1202 : Interest Rates | m131 : Money Markets | m15 : Derivative Securities | ntop : Dow Jones/Reuters Top Wire News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCDBT | GVD | INT | MCE | STIR | NEWS | MMT | DRV | FED | CEN   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020080319e43j0016d  



 HDUPDATE 1-U.S. 3M bill yield posts fresh 50-plus year lows   BYBy Richard Leong      WC351 words   PD19 March 2008   ET19:28   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited   
   LP(Adds background, quotes)

NEW YORK, March 19 (Reuters) - The yield on U.S. 3-month Treasury bills reached fresh 50-plus year lows on Wednesday, as investors booked profits on stocks and commodities and put the proceeds into ultra-safe assets.
   TDThe three-month T-bill yield <US3MT=RR>, considered by economists as a benchmark of "risk-free" return on U.S. assets, reached as low as 0.56 percent, down 29 basis points from late Tuesday.

"It is the absolute flight to safety," said Bryan Taylor, chief economist with Global Financial Data in Los Angeles.

"People are just scared that non-government debt is risky," said Taylor, whose data shows the 3-month T-bill yield has not been this low since 1947.

Investors decided to take profits on stocks after the Standard & Poor's 500 index <.SPX> made its biggest one-day jump in more than five years on Tuesday, when the Federal Reserve lowered key U.S. interest rates by 75 basis points.

In midafternoon trading, major U.S. stock indexes <.DJI> <.SPX> <.IXIC> were down as much as 1.4 percent.

Even the booming commodity sector was not immune to the day's flight from risky assets.

Gold fell to a three-week low, losing nearly 6 percent below $1,000 an ounce. Oil prices <CLc1> were off more than 5.5 percent at $104 a barrel.

"A lot of commodity funds seem to be going into T-bills," said Janaki Rao, an interest rate strategy at Morgan Stanley in New York.

Other bill yields also traded lower on this flight to safety. The yield on 1-month Treasury bills <US1MT=RR> last traded at 0.54 percent, down 3 basis points from late Tuesday.

Six-month bill yield <US6MT=RR> last traded at 1.22 percent, compared with 1.33 percent late on Tuesday.

(Additional reporting by John Parry, Editing by Chizu Nomiyama)
   RFMARKETS-BILLS (UPDATE 1)|LANGEN|ABN|M|D|E|RBN|U|RNP|DNP   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | m131 : Money Markets | m15 : Derivative Securities | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCFIN | INT | MCE | DBT | DRV | STIR | MMT | MUNI   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020080319e43j001j9  



 HDASSET-BACKEDS-ABX up on Fed ease, earnings results      BYBy Nancy Leinfuss      WC443 words   PD18 March 2008   ET21:58   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited   
   LPNEW YORK, March 18 (Reuters) - A key derivatives index backed by risky residential mortgage bonds rose on Tuesday after the Federal Reserve cut key interest rates and top U.S. investment banks delivered reassuring earnings results.   

The ABX, a synthetic index of home equity asset-backed securities tied to credit default swaps, gained two to three points, dealers said.   
   TDThe Federal Open Market Committee lowered its fed funds rate 75 basis points, to 2.25 percent, and the discount rate, at which it lends directly to banks, by the same amount, to 2.5 percent.   

"While the cut (in fed funds) was lower than some people had expected, it was fine all the same. The language was important and it hit the right tone," one portfolio manager said of the Fed's move.   

The interest rate cut was part of the Fed's effort to hold off a deep recession and financial meltdown.   

"Financial markets remain under considerable stress, and the tightening of credit conditions and the deepening of the housing contraction are likely to weigh on economic growth over the next few quarters," said the central bank.   

"The size of the rate cut does not matter an ounce one way or another. What it comes down to is that consumer confidence in the housing market is shot and unless that is fixed, it's going to continue to slide," said Mike Kagawa, portfolio manager at Payden & Rygel.   

The "AAA" tier of the ABX 2007-1 index rose to 57.16 from 54.45 on Monday, while the "AA" slice rose to 22.50 from 20.50 in the prior session, dealers said.   

The indexes were boosted earlier in the session by stronger-than-expected results from  Goldman Sachs Group and  Lehman Brothers Holdings .   

The news came on the heels of Monday's sell-off in the key derivatives index as concern the funding freeze that led to the fire-sale of the investment bank  Bear Stearns may deepen and following the Fed's emergency liquidity provision for investment banks over the weekend.   

The need for backup financing signaled the credit crunch that has already seized markets for mortgage-related debt has worsened. Rising delinquencies in subprime residential mortgages sparked the credit crisis that last summer claimed two hedge funds managed by  Bear Stearns.

Hedge fund liquidations related to margin calls have weighed heavily on top-rated segments of the ABX in recent weeks, driving them down by seven to 10 points. (Editing by Dan Grebler)   
   RFMARKETS-ASSETBACKEDS|LANGEN|Table|ABN|M|D|E|RBN|U|MNI   INibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe1122 : Mortgage Applications/Refinancing | e1202 : Interest Rates | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m15 : Derivative Securities | mcabs : Asset Backed Securities | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mcpdbt : Corporate Debt/Bond Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCMTG | DBT | FIN | ABS | STIR | MCE | DRV | REAM | FUND | INS | BNK | ABS/ | EMBG:DBT | embargokeyE1   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020080321e43i000x9  



 HDFED FOCUS-Crisis tests Bernanke; most see him up to task      BYBy Ros Krasny      WC757 words   PD17 March 2008   ET23:22   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited   
   LPCHICAGO (Reuters) - The future job prospects of Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke could hang in the balance as the U.S. central bank wrestles with the biggest global financial market crisis in decades.   

A renowned scholar of the economic causes of financial crises, Bernanke, the soft-spoken former Princeton economics professor, now has a chance to make history of his own.   
   TD"This is like a 1980s savings and loan situation with three more zeros on the end of it," said Doug Roberts, chief investment strategist with Channel Capital Research, referring to large-scale mortgage-related losses on Wall Street books.   

A straw poll of Fed watchers suggested many think Bernanke is doing a good job cleaning up a mess years in the making, from the bursting of a housing bubble that took a half a decade to build to a related implosion in subprime mortgage lending.   

Bernanke's four-year term as chairman expires in January 2010. His future could depend as much on the outcome of the November U.S. presidential election as on the Fed's success in staving off or cutting short a recession.   

The Fed, under Bernanke's guidance, has pulled out the stops in the past couple weeks to push liquidity into shaky credit markets. It has also cut benchmark lending rates from 5.25 percent to 3.0 percent since mid-September, with another big rate cut on tap at a policy meeting Tuesday.   

A number of prominent economists, including National Bureau of Economic Research President Martin Feldstein, think the Fed was too slow to respond to the global credit crisis that erupted in August last year and has been swirling ever since.   

Republican presidential candidate John McCain, referring to the Fed's aggressive interest rate cuts in January, said in February he "would have liked to have seen those rate cuts earlier." However, his top economic adviser said Monday the Arizona Senator had "complete confidence" in Bernanke.   

TAKING FIRE FROM BOTH SIDES   

Ethan Harris, economist at  Lehman Brothers, said in a research note that Bernanke has taken a criticism from those who think the Fed has cut rates too much, and those that think they've eased too little.   

But Chris Rupkey, chief financial economist at  Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, gave Bernanke "very high marks" for the credit-market rescue efforts now under way.   

"He has done a good job at marshaling the forces and attacking the problems. If there's any finger-pointing, you could point them at the person who left the Fed in February of 2006," Rupkey said, referring to former Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan.   

Others commended Bernanke's creative approach and innovation solutions to a liquidity crisis that has undercut the impact of traditional monetary policy tools.   

"The Fed has been trying to distinguish between macroeconomic risks (for which it lowers the federal funds rate) and liquidity concerns in financial markets," said Thomas Lam, senior Treasury economist at  United Overseas Bank Group in Singapore.   

Thus, the birth of the Term Auction Facility, Term Securities Lending Facility, Primary Dealer Credit Facility and term repurchase agreements -- a new set of policy tools that should allow the Fed, over time, to make headway.   

"The moves Bernanke has made with these TAFs are the biggest innovation at the Fed in 30 to 40 years," said Roberts.   

Analysts said Bernanke has been guided by his historical knowledge, especially of the Great Depression of the 1930s.   

"The Bernanke Fed's actions to date are entirely consistent with the view that in the face of the credit crunch ... keeping the monetary spigots wide open and the banking system as liquid as possible offers the best chance of addressing systemic risk," said Ray Attrill, analyst at 4CAST Ltd.   

The Fed's steps should gain traction over time, said economists at  Deutsche Bank.

"We have heard many investors say that the Fed's rate cut actions are not working and that other measures need to be taken ... When the economy bottoms out and investors believe that the financial crisis is not spreading, there will be some light at the end of the tunnel," they said.   

If anything, Bernanke could take a higher public profile during these days of crisis, according to Rupkey.   

"People see the Fed chairman as the nation's chief economist, but it seems like the White House and (Treasury Secretary Henry) Paulson are taking the lead," he said.   
   RFUSA-FED/BERNANKE (ANALYSIS)|LANGEN|FUN   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | e1202 : Interest Rates | gpol : Domestic Politics | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCWASH | FED | CEN | MCE | PLCY | STIR | INT | POL | FED/FOCUS   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020080317e43h002lk  



 HDUPDATE 3-China wary of US subprime fallout, rising inflation      BYBy Jason Subler and Eadie Chen      WC732 words   PD18 March 2008   ET06:53   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited   
   LP(Adds increase in banks' required reserves)   

BEIJING, March 18 (Reuters) - China is deeply concerned about the potential global economic fallout from the U.S. subprime crisis, which could make its job of balancing growth and fighting inflation more challenging, Premier Wen Jiabao said on Tuesday.   
   TDChina's central bank, which is tightening policy at a time when the Federal Reserve is dramatically easing, ordered banks on Tuesday to hold more of their deposits in reserve instead of lending them out. Its governor also held open the possibility of higher interest rates.   

Although Wen said it would be difficult to keep inflation this year to within Beijing's 4.8 percent target, he said he was confident the government would succeed at its main task for 2008: checking price rises while engineering stable growth.   

But he highlighted the increasing uncertainties brought about by the U.S. mortgage crisis, which has spawned a fall in the dollar, slammed stock markets worldwide and boosted oil prices.   

"I am closely watching and feel deeply worried about the global economic situation, especially the U.S. economy," Wen told reporters after the closing session of the National People's Congress, the largely ceremonial parliament.   

"What concerns me now is the continuous depreciation of the U.S. dollar and when the dollar will hit bottom."   

The dollar is trading near 13-year lows against the yen and record lows against the euro, after the Fed repeatedly cut interest rates and tried to shore up confidence in America's fragile financial system by pumping in huge quantities of cash.   

Wen said Beijing would take the changing economic landscape into account when deciding on further policy steps, despite having switched to a "tight" monetary policy at the end of last year to curb excessive growth in investment and credit.   

While many other countries are facing a credit crunch in the wake of the collapse of the subprime mortgage market, China is struggling to contain a surge in liquidity stemming from its massive trade surplus.   

"Global economic developments cannot but have an impact on China. Therefore, at the same time as pursuing these policies, we must pay close attention to international economic developments and, based on changing trends, be flexible and timely in adopting corresponding countermeasures," Wen said.   

STILL ROOM FOR RATE RISE   

Wen's comments fed into negative sentiment in the country's stock markets. The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index <.SSEC> tumbled 3.96 percent to finish at 3,668.897, its lowest close in more than eight months.   

Wen stressed the need to walk a fine line between fighting inflation, which hit a nearly 12-year high in February of 8.7 percent, and slamming on the brakes too hard.   

An abrupt slowdown in output would frustrate efforts to create at least 10 million new jobs a year, he said.   

The People's  Bank of China on Tuesday ordered banks from March 25 to hold 15.5 percent of their deposits in reserve, up from 15 percent. ((For analysts' reaction click on [ID:nPEK318302]))   

It was the 15th increase in required reserves in less than two years. The latest rise will tie up about 200 billion yuan ($28 billion) in deposits that banks could otherwise have turned into loans.   

"It's not surprising at all, and I believe there will be more hikes in the required reserve ratio in coming months," said Yi Xianrong with the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences.   

"I believe an interest rate increase is just round the corner. Just look at inflation: it's 8.7 percent. The government must do something," the researcher said.   

Earlier on Tuesday, central bank governor Zhou Xiaochuan said Beijing would not take any hasty policy decisions on how to respond to the U.S. slowdown; but it still had scope to raise interest rates even as the United States was lowering its own.   

"There is room to adjust various monetary policies," Zhou told reporters. "But it is an art to decide on the detailed moves, on the timing and degree." (Additional reporting by Langi Chiang, Zhou Xin and Chris Buckley; Editing by Alan Wheatley and Stephen Nisbet)   
   RFCHINA-PREMIER/ECONOMY (UPDATE 3, PIX, TV)|LANGEN|ABN|C|D|E|M|O|U|MTL|GRO|SOF|OIL|Z|ABX|BNX|FUN|DNP   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | gpol : Domestic Politics | ntop : Dow Jones/Reuters Top Wire News | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | ncat : Content Types   REasiaz : Asia | china : China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | usa : United States | chinaz : Greater China | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America   IPCMCE | POL | PLCY | NEWS | FRX | STX | CEN | INT | STIR   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020080318e43i000ag  


 HDTREASURIES-Prices ease on profit-taking ahead of Fed      BYBy Jamie McGeever      WC600 words   PD18 March 2008   ET11:07   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited   
   LPLONDON, March 18 (Reuters) - U.S. Treasuries prices slipped on Tuesday, lifting yields from this week's multi-year lows, as traders booked profits from the strong rally lately and cut positions ahead of the Federal Reserve's interest rate decision.   

The Fed is widely expected to cut rates at its scheduled policy meeting in its latest bid to restore confidence in an economy which many analysts say is already in recession, and help get liquidity flowing through gummed up financial markets.   
   TDFutures markets suggest the Fed will cut rates by a whopping 100 basis points to 2 percent. Whatever the size, the rate cut will be the latest in a series of moves in recent months that have included emergency rate cuts, massive liquidity injections into the banking system and increased loans to banks.   

Treasuries have soared recently as investors have rushed to the safety of top-rated and liquid government bonds as the credit crisis has deepened and market conditions have soured. Following the Fed-led bailout of Bear Stearns , fears have grown about the health of other financial institutions.   

With Lehman Brothers and Goldman Sachs earnings reports coming before the U.S. market open, there's still every incentive for investors to remain buyers of Treasuries, even at current levels, many analysts say.   

"It's very hard to see a turnaround in the bullish price momentum for Treasuries in the short term," said Kenneth Broux, financial markets economist at Lloyds TSB in London.   


 "We've got two themes -- the banking/credit situation and
the economy -- and neither are showing much sign of
   

stabilisation. So the outlook for Treasuries remains positive, even at these levels," he said.   

On Monday, two-year yields fell to their lowest in five years at 1.2488 percent, three-month T-bill yields hit their lowest in half a century well below 1 percent, while Treasury futures hit their highest in almost a decade.   

At 1000 GMT on Tuesday June 10-year futures <TYM8> were down 14/32 at 119-25/64.   

Two-year notes yielded 1.3850 percent <US2YT=RR>, up around 4 basis points from late U.S. trade, and the benchmark 10-year note yielded 3.3550 percent <US10YT=RR>, up 5 basis points.   

The spread of the 10-year yield over the two-year widened marginally to 197 basis points.   

A Reuters poll of economists suggests the Fed will cut rates by half a percentage point later on Tuesday, at least six U.S. primary dealers expect 100 basis points of easing, while more than half of all 20 dealers expect at least 75 basis points.   

On the data front, the latest housing starts and building permit figures will be released at 1230 GMT, along with the latest snapshot of producer price inflation. See [ECONUS]. [20080318 100757 GMT]   

--------------MARKET SNAPSHOT AT 1003 GMT ------------------ Futures continuous contract basis    


30-year T-Bond 120-26/32  (-16/32) 
10-year T-Note 121-13/32  (-12/32)
                         Change vs          Current
                               Nyk            yield 
Three-month bills   1.07       (+0.07)           1.086 
Six-month bills     1.28       (+0.02)           1.306 
Two-year notes      101-06/32  (-03/32)          1.388 
Five-year notes     102-11/32  (-07/32)          2.250 
10-year notes       101-08/32  (-14/32)          3.352 
30-year bonds       100-30/32  (-07/32)          4.319 [20080318 101624 GMT] 
   
   RFMARKETS-TREASURIES|LANGEN|ABN|M|E|RBN|D|NAT|RNP|DNP|PTD|PMF|MARKETS-TREASURIES (XREF)|LANGEN|Table|ABN|M|chained   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | m15 : Derivative Securities | mntdbt : National Government Debt/Bond Markets | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCDBT | GVD | US/ | US/L   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020080318e43i000o0  



 HDTREASURIES-Bank earnings dent bond prices ahead of Fed      BYBy John Parry      WC504 words   PD18 March 2008   ET13:13   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited   
   LP(Updates prices, adds comment, context, reaction to data, byline)   

NEW YORK, March 18 (Reuters) - U.S. Treasury debt prices fell on Tuesday as unexpectedly strong bank earnings paved the way for Wall Street stocks to open higher, curbing government debt's safe-harbor allure.   
   TDBond traders were bracing for the Federal Reserve's policy decision expected around 2:15 p.m. (1815 GMT). Short-term interest rate futures fully priced in a steep 100 basis-point cut in the fed funds target rate, following the Fed's recent liquidity measures intended to stabilize the banking system.   

One hundred basis points equal one percentage point.   

In the aftermath of the Fed's help to credit markets and  JPMorgan Chase's purchase of ailing investment bank  Bear Stearns , Treasury yields fell near five-year lows on Monday, but rebounded early on Tuesday as the intensity of investors' fears about credit markets abated somewhat.   

"The trade so far is that the investment bank earnings were better than expected. CDS (credit default swap) spreads have tightened and stocks were up a lot. That is weighing on the Treasury market," said Josh Stiles bond strategist and managing director with IDEAglobal in New York.   

The benchmark 10-year Treasury note's <US10YT=RR> price, which moves inversely to its yield, fell 20/32 for a yield of 3.37 percent versus 3.30 percent late Monday.   

U.S. February headline producer prices matched consensus forecasts, but housing starts exceeded expectations, delivering Treasury prices a fleeting blow.   

However, Stiles said: "I don't think the data is a big market mover. The PPI core is more elevated than expected, but the year-on-year trend is not going to be too alarming yet. Regarding the housing starts, I wouldn't put anything in that little bounce, The housing industry is in a recession."   

The Fed is widely expected to cut rates at its scheduled policy meeting in its latest bid to restore confidence in an economy which many analysts say is already in recession, and help get liquidity flowing through gummed-up financial markets.   

The rate cut will be the latest in a series of moves in recent months that have included emergency rate cuts, massive liquidity injections into the banking system and increased loans to banks.   

The 2-year Treasury note's <US2YT=RR> price was down 5/32 for a yield of 1.43 percent versus 1.35 percent late Monday.   

Earnings from  Goldman Sachs and  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc exceeded forecasts, weighing on Treasury prices.   

After the Goldman earnings, "stock futures are in the green, with pretty solid gains," said Kim Rupert, managing director of global fixed income analysis with Action Economics LLC in San Francisco. "The Treasury market might get cold feet," Rupert said. (Additional reporting by Jamie McGeever in London; Editing by James Dalgleish)   
   RFMARKETS-BONDS (UPDATE 1)|LANGEN|ABN|E|RBN|D|U|M|MNI|J|UKI|AUF|RNP|DNP   INibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m131 : Money Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ntop : Dow Jones/Reuters Top Wire News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCDBT | GVD | MUNI | INT | MCE | STIR | MMT | NEWS | US/ | US/N | INVS | FIN | FUND | BSVC | FINS | CPX   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020080318e43i000vj  



 HDRATE FUTURES-Still pricing in 100 bps rate cut after data      WC102 words   PD18 March 2008   ET13:42   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited   
   LPNEW YORK, March 18 (Reuters) - U.S. interest rate futures held steady at lower levels on Tuesday after government data showed stronger-than-expected housing starts and a surprisingly large increase in core producer prices.   

Federal funds futures implied traders are still fully pricing in the scenario of the Federal Reserve lowering its benchmark short-term U.S. target rate by 100 basis points later to 2.00 percent. (Reporting by Richard Leong; Editing by Tom Hals)   
   RFMARKETS-RATEFUTURES (URGENT)|LANGEN|ABN|D|M|MNI|E|U|DNP   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | m131 : Money Markets | m15 : Derivative Securities | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCFIN | INT | MCE | DBT | DRV | STIR | MMT | MUNI   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020080318e43i000xf  



 HDDollar Bank cuts prime rate to 5.25 percent from 6.0 percent after Fed decision   WC140 words   PD18 March 2008   ET22:59   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPNEW YORK (AP) - Dollar Bank on Tuesday lowered its prime rate by three-fourths of a percentage point after the Federal Reserve cut its key interest rate.

Pittsburgh-based Dollar Bank said its prime rate is now 5.25 percent, down from 6.0 percent. The Fed cut the federal funds rate, which is what banks charge each other for overnight loans, to 2.25 percent from 3.0 percent previously.
   TDThe prime rate is what banks charge their best customers, and serves as the benchmark for lending rates to all customers for mortgages, credit cards and other products.

Most banks typically raise or lower their prime rate by an amount equal to the Fed's rate action within minutes of its decision.
   RF7   INi81501 : Credit Types/Services | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagapf | selapfin | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | APFN Dollar Bank Prime Rate | D8VG3O080   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020080318e43i00377  

 Page 1 of 1      2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.


 

 Page 1      2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.

