 


 HDFT.com site : Fed move seen as insufficient catch-up attempt.    BYMohamed El-Erian    WC707 words   PD22 January 2008   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPRather than wait for its meeting next week, the US Federal Reserve implemented an emergency cut of 75 basis points on Tuesday. This took its key interest rate, the federal funds rate, down to 3.5 per cent compared with 5.25 per cent just six months ago. 

Yet what would have been interpreted a just few days ago as a bold policy measure to get ahead of the curve is now seen by some as an insufficient attempt to play catch-up with a rapidly deteriorating situation. 
   TDThe immediate market reaction to the Fed announcement points to continued scepticism as to whether the policymakers fully grasp the severity of the position. The interest rate markets are pricing in more cuts next week and have lowered the rate at which they expect the current interest rate cycle to bottom out. 

Meanwhile, rather than equity market sentiment being turned around decisively by the move, investors now understand better what interest rates and credit markets have been signalling for a while: that the continuing damage to the financial system is being embedded more deeply into the chain of economic relationships, increasing the overall default risk in the economy. 

The recent troubles of the bond insurers serve only to reinforce the image of falling dominos now that the major banks have taken important write-offs. 

As long as this market mentality persists, the fresh capital currently on the sideline will only engage forcefully and sustainably in risk markets if valuations become excessively cheap. 

Meanwhile, the Fed will be restoring liquity to the parts of the system that are closest to it, accentuating the divergence that we have witnessed recently between a normalising interbank market (highlighted by the moves in the London inter-bank offered rate) and unstable and volatile credit and equity markets.. 

In this context, and in the absence of belief that a meaningful fiscal response will accompany the monetary policy loosening, valuations of stocks and other assets rather than corrective government actions will act as the main driving factor in "clearing" markets to enable them to stabilize and function smoothly again. 

Prices will have to get low enough to skew the balance of risk significantly to the advantage of new investors to tempt them in. Otherwise, they will simply wait on the sidelines. 

Recent developments will also accentuate the divergence between transparent segments of the markets and structured finance, where there are still fundamental concerns about methods of valuation. Liquidity and cash will remain king. 

Can other countries "decouple" from the US's problems? Here, it is important to distinguish between market valuations and economic trends. An increase in the overall level of risk aversion around the world makes it hard for markets to decouple. Economic decoupling is a greater possibility, supported by underlying productivity trends and the larger degree of policy flexibility in some other key countries. 

All this points to a particularly choppy time for markets. In running their portfolios, investors'will have to factor in sharp changes in relative valuations between asset classes and need to manage cash carefully. Risk mitigation trades, implemented during the complacent market era that ended last summer, will prove particularly effective. 

Over the longer term, markets will be dealing with a tricky issue of timing: how to reconcile the effects of delayed policy responses with what will eventually be a turn upwards in valuation as fresh capital is invested. 

It is to be hoped, before this happens, that we will see meaningful progress in addressing an important issue that lies at the heart of both the era of excessive complacency and the subsequent period of major correction: it is time for the market and policy infrastructure to catch up with the new activities that have been enabled by the realignment of global economic power and the technical innovations in the financial industry. 

The longer such progress is delayed, the greater the probability of further damage as a result of the consequences of lax risk management and less potent policy instruments. 

The writer is co-chief executive and co-chief investment officer of Pimco. He was previously president and chief executive officer of Harvard Management Company
   RF61594778   INi81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | i814 : Banking   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1101 : Economic Growth | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | gdip : International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTCOM00020080123e41m0001e  



 HDFT.com site : Fed slashes rates.    WC338 words   PD22 January 2008   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPBen Bernanke had a holiday weekend to watch both the traumas of global equity markets and the panic build about how the storm would hit the US. Rather than wait, the Federal Reserve chairman acted pre-emptively, bringing forward the aggressive 75 basis point interest rate cut that would otherwise have arrived next week. 

The biggest inter-meeting rate cut in Fed history served as a circuit breaker against the threat of a vicious cycle down in the markets. For now. 
   TDOver time, sharply lower rates will help the US economy. A steeper yield curve should feed through into better bank profits over time and allow them to rebuild capital. More immediately, lower rates will help reduce the payment shock from mortgage resets and bolster confidence in general. 

But the shock cut is no solution in itself. US house prices still need to fall further. Credit markets must continue working off the huge excesses of recent years. Both will take time. Meanwhile, the second round effects - weaker consumer spending and rising bad debts for the banking sector - are only just starting to show through. And equity investors seem to have woken up only belatedly to the fact that profits could fall materially. 

Just as the Fed struggled to make its interest rate rises felt between 2003 and 2006, as financial institutions got looser and more creative with their lending, it will struggle to ensure aggressive cuts are transmitted through to corporate and consumer borrowers as lenders draw in their horns. Interest rate cuts have their biggest impact with a lag of about a year. In this case financial institutions are already battered and bruised by the credit market meltdown. Lending is likely to continue being curtailed, even as rates fall. 

Given the wave of bad economic and market data, the Fed will probably slash rates by another half point next week. But it has now fired its big cannon. As the Fed's armoury becomes depleted, the financial instability will continue.  
   RF61594799   INi81501 : Credit Types/Services | i81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | i814 : Banking   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTCOM00020080123e41m0001w  



 HDFT.com site : Price of gold turns back towards $900.    BYJavier Blas    WC566 words   PD22 January 2008   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPGold prices rallied and other commodities posted small gains after the US Federal Reserve cut interest rates in an effort to prop up the weakening US economy. 

Spot bullion in London jumped to $894.30 a troy ounce as the US dollar weakened against the euro after the Fed cut its main interest rate by 75 basis points to 3.5 per cent and said it was ready to take further action. 
   TDAnita Soni of Credit Suisse said: "Upward pressure on the price of gold is likely being driven by weakness of the US dollar fuelled by US rate cuts." 

Before the central bank's action, gold prices had tumbled to a three-week low of $849.50 an ounce as traders took profits from the recent rally in precious metals. 

Earlier this month, gold prices hit an all-time high of $914 an ounce. 

Tuesday's price jump was also boosted by positive comments from investment banks Morgan Stanley and Credit Suisse which raised their forecasts for average gold prices in 2008 to $950 an ounce and above $1,000 an ounce in 2009. 

Barclays Capital reiterated its positive view towards the metal, forecasting a test of the $1,000 an ounce level before the summer. 

Suki Cooper, a precious metals analyst at Barclays Capital in London, said: "A significant number of positive external drivers such as a weak dollar, inflation concerns and slower US growth are set to support prices" 

UBS, on the other hand, remained cautious and reiterated its one-month target of $850 an ounce for gold on the weakness of physical jewellery demand. 

Other analysts also continue to be guarded as exchange-traded funds, the biggest driver of investment gold demand in recent years, last week suffered surprisingly large outflows. 

Other commodity prices pared losses or moved into positive territory after heavy falls, triggered by fears that the US economic slowdown could spread to emerging economies such as China and India, which have been the main engines of fresh demand for raw materials. 

But traders remained cautious and warned that base metals and energy commodities could come under further pressure as soon as the euphoria over interest rate cuts had faded away. 

Opec offered the starkest warning of the dangers lying ahead, saying in its monthly report: "With mounting evidence of a slowdown in US economic growth . . . fears of a downright recession have multiplied." 

Sales of commodities, particularly of agricultural raw materials, aimed at raising funds for investors seeking to offset losses in other markets, had also contributed to the price fall in early morning, traders said. 

Robert Laughlin of MF Global in London said that the immediate risk for commodities was "a liquidation of open positions by some market participants in order to finance positions on other markets". 

Crude oil prices were mixed, after falling to the lowest level in six weeks before the Fed's interest rate cut. 

ICE March Brent closed 94 cents higher at $88.45 a barrel. It had declined to a low of $85.00 a barrel. 

In New York, Nymex February West Texas Intermediate settled at $89.85 a barrel, a drop of 72 cents from Friday's close. 

On the London Metal Exchange, base metals recovered from early losses. Copper rose 1.9 per cent to $7,010 per tonne.  
   RF61596613   INi81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | i814 : Banking   NSm142 : Metals Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | c33 : Contracts/Orders | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | mpcsmt : Precious Metals Markets | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | m14 : Commodity Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTCOM00020080123e41m0002m  



 HDFT.com site : Treasury yields fall on Fed cuts.    BYBy Michael Mackenzie in New York and Joanna Chung in London    WC370 words   PD22 January 2008   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPUS Treasury yields fell sharply on expectations that the US Federal Reserve would follow Tuesday's unusual 75 basis point interest rate cut with further easing next week. 

The sharp falls in equity markets around the world - and declines in US markets even after the Fed's move - meant investors were continuing to prize the safety of government debt amid worries of a US recession. 
   TDThe Fed cut its overnight rate to 3.50 per cent before markets reopened on Tuesday. It was its first inter-meeting cut since September 2001 and the biggest inter-meeting move in history. 

Government bond markets in the US and Europe have made sharp gains since last August, when credit and mortgage concerns alerted investors that the US economy was facing a tough 2008. 

The Fed holds its official January meeting next week, and in a statement on Tuesday said that "appreciable downside risks to growth remain," which bond traders believe keeps the door open for more cuts. On Tuesday, interest rate futures priced in at least another 25bp and possibly a 50bp ease. 

"Since the Fed will not have enough time to see the impact on the real economy of this 75 bp of stimulus, it will only have a chance to take a look at the response of the market, potentially easing more if the market demands it, which we think it will," said Ian Lyngen, bond strategist at RBS Greenwich Capital. 

The yield on the interest-rate sensitive two-year US Treasury note was at 2.11 per cent on Tuesday and had reached a low of 1.99 per cent, its lowest level since April 2004. In July, the note yielded about 5 per cent. It began the year at 3.06 per cent, well below the prevailing Fed funds rate. 

But any sign of equities stabilising will likely push yields back up. Charles Diebel, fixed income strategist at Nomura, said: "There can be little doubt that bonds are well over-extended here . . . However, for the moment this is a fear-driven market rather than a value- driven one."  
   RF61596616   INi81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | i814 : Banking   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e212 : Government Borrowing | ecat : Economic News | gpol : Domestic Politics | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e21 : Government Finance | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTCOM00020080123e41m0002n  



 HDFT.com site : Soros accuses Fed of panic cut.   BYChris Giles, Economics Editor, in Davos     WC619 words   PD23 January 2008   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2008 The Financial Times Ltd. All rights reserved. Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the web.  
   LPReaction to the US Federal Reserve's 0.75 percentage point cut in interest rates ranged from the hostile to lukewarm as policymakers, businessmen and economists chewed over the move at the World Economic Forum.

In one Davos session almost 60 per cent of the -delegates voted in favour of a motion saying central banks had lost both their focus and control with respect to -economic governance. In another, business leaders listed economic mismanagement as one of the biggest threats to the world economy.
   TDSpeaking to FT.com's View from the Top, George Soros, the head of his own hedge fund, accused the Fed of cutting rates in a "rather panicky way . . . because people fear there are hidden problems" which had yet to surface.

"Then there is worry about the monoline [insurers] and there may be another problem with money market funds," he said.

The response was not entirely negative. John Snow, former US Treasury secretary, and Angel Gurria, secretary-general of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, supported the move.

"This gives credibility to the fiscal package [of tax cuts] in the US and covers the short term while households wait for their cheques," Mr Gurria said after a Davos session.

Fred Bergsten, the director of the Washington-based Peterson Institute for International Economics, supported the Fed's actions, but told the FT that, since he expected the US economy to recover later in the year, "the Fed may have to reverse its actions".

But those offering praise were in the minority. Echoing comments on Tuesday from Mervyn King, the Bank of England governor, Edmund Phelps, the Nobel prize-winning economist from Columbia University, told the FT he was sceptical of policies that tried to avoid a necessary workout of private sector problems.

"I worry over the call of politicians to 'prevent a recession' as if interest rate cuts by the Fed and tax rebates could combat or undo the structural forces unleashed by the weakness in the banking sector," he said.

Two general criticisms emerged. First, that the timing of the move - just a week before a regular meeting of the Federal open markets committee - suggested panic and attempted to offer too much succour to equity markets. And second, that the policy would not work.

Writing in his FT.com blog, Sir Howard Davies,director of the London School of Economics and a former chairman of the UK financial regulator, said the move reminded him of the character Corporal Jones in the long-running UK sitcom Dad's Army, who always shouted "Don't panic" as he and everyone else were doing just that.

Stephen Roach, of Morgan Stanley, said such attempted market friendly action was the wrong way to run a central bank. "The next meeting is in seven days. What's the difference if they move [on Tuesday] or in seven days?"

Nouriel Roubini of New York University, a bear on the US and global economy, agreed and called for a more symmetric approach from the Fed. "There was a Greenspan put and now there is a Bernanke put," he said, in reference to the perception that the Fed chairman always cuts interest rates when investors lose money.

But the more worrying suggestion by many was that the action might not be sufficiently effective to head-off a US recession.Prof Joe Stiglitz, a Nobel prize-winning economist at Columbia University, said the Fed's action was "too late" and, with structural forces in the US housing and financial systems likely to bring a contraction, would be as effective as "pushing on a piece of string". 
   RF61625819   COwecof : World Economic Forum   INi81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | i814 : Banking   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTCOM00020080124e41n0004e  



 HDFT.com site : Share falls halted by talk of rate cut.    BYMichael Hunter and Robert Orr    WC554 words   PD22 January 2008   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPShares swung violently on Tuesday as a sharp early sell-off for the FTSE 100 and other European indices was reversed amid rumours of emergency interest rate cuts. 

Down as much as 240 points in the moments after the market opened, the FTSE 100 rallied soon after amid speculation that the US Federal Reserve was poised to tackle the slump in global equity markets. 
   TDTalk in the market ranged from an imminent 50 or even 75 basis points cut by the Fed to co-ordinated intervention by the US central bank and other leading policymakers. 

"There are all sorts of rumours flying around, particularly surrounding the likelihood of the Federal Reserve cutting rates, ahead of the scheduled meeting next week, or even of co-ordinated action between the US, UK and European central banks," said Martin Slaney at GFT Global Markets. 

By late morning, the FTSE had rallied to trade 40 points, or 0.8 per cent, higher at 5,622.3 while the pan-European FTSE EuroFirst 300, which was also sharply lower earlier, was up 0.6 per cent at 12,871.21. 

Asian markets overnight suffered the biggest falls in more than eight years in response to the sharpest slides in European indices since the 9/11 attacks on New York more than six years ago. 

Monday's sell-off was triggered by concern about the prospect of a US recession and more fall-out from credit market turmoil. 

While Japan's Nikkei 225 lost 5.7 per cent to 12,573.1, an 8.6 per cent slide on Hong Kong's Hang Seng index to 21,757.6 constituted the index's worst two-day fall since the aftermath of the 1997-98 Asian financial crisis. 

Australia's S&P/ASX 200 recorded its biggest slide since the index was launched in 2000, closing 7.1 per cent lower. 

Traders turned their attention to Wall Street, which is expected to open sharply lower after being closed on Monday for the Martin Luther King Jnr Day holiday. 

Wall Street futures indicated heavy falls for the Dow Jones Industrial Average and other US indices. 

Mr Slaney added: "After being closed for the long holiday weekend, US indices are heading for carnage on the open". 

However, many dealers and strategists also expect central bank intervention. 

"There is a good chance that the Fed will cut by 50 basis points today given what is happening with stock prices," said Divyang Shah at Commonwealth Bank. 

Back in London, mining stocks were among the worst performers on fears of a US recession. Rio Tinto lost 4.6 per cent to GBP40.33, Xstrata fell 4 per cent to GBP30.51, Kazakhmys lost 3.4 per cent to GBP10.06p and Anglo American dropped 3 per cent to GBP22.82. 

However, there was some relief for the under-pressure banking sector, with HBOS up 4.2 per cent to 636p, Lloyds TSB 3.6 per cent higher at 387.25p and Royal Bank of Scotland 2.6 per cent higher at 351p. 

Housebuilders fared better after some positive broker comment. Taylor Wimpey rose 6 per cent to 194.8p and Persimmon gained 4.7 per cent to 795p  
   RF61583004   INi81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | i814 : Banking   NSm11 : Equity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | c33 : Contracts/Orders | e1202 : Interest Rates | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTCOM00020080123e41m0000o  



 HDFT.com site : Gold rallies after Fed cuts rates.    BYJavier Blas in London    WC577 words   PD22 January 2008   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPGold prices rallied on Tuesday after the US Federal Reserve cut interest rates in an emergency meeting in an effort to prop up the weakening US economy. 

Spot gold in London surged to $874.65 a troy ounce as the US dollar weakened against the dollar after the Fed cut interests rates by 75 basis points to 3.5 per cent and warned it was ready to take further action. 
   TDBefore the central bank action, gold prices had tumbled to a three-week low of $849.50 an ounce as traders took profits from the precious metal's recent rally to cover losses elsewhere. Gold hit in early January an all-time record of $914.0 an ounce. 

Other commodities prices pared losses or move to positive territory after earlier heavy losses triggered by fears that the US economic slowdown could spread to emerging countries such as China and India, the main engine of fresh demand. 

Sales of commodities, particularly of agricultural raw materials, to raise funds to offset losses in others markets also contributed to the price fall in early morning, traders said. Commodities prices registered strong gains last year and in early 2008. 

Robert Laughlin of MF Global in London said that the immediate risk for commodities was "a liquidation of open positions by some market participants in order to finance positions on other markets." 

After the Federal Reserve interest rate cut, crude oil prices pared losses with ICE March Brent down $1.14 to $86.37 a barrel. Previously, Brent fell to a low of $85.00 a barrel. 

Nymex February West Texas Intermediate fell to $87.67 a barrel, a drop of $2.90 from Friday's close, but about $1.02 cents below Monday's last electronic quotes. 

The Nymex exchange did not set a settlement price on Monday as the open-outcry trading floor was shut for a public holiday. But electronic trading late Monday had WTI at $88.69 a barrel, meaning the Tuesday loss was of about $1.02 a barrel. 

WTI fell in earlier trading and before the central bank's action to a six-week low of $86.11 a barrel. 

On the London Metal Exchange, copper pared losses to fell 0.2 per cent to $6,870 a tonne and aluminium moved 0.4 per cent higher to $2,420 a tonne. 

Before the Fed interest cut, Peter Fertig, of Dresdner Kleinwor in Frankfurt, said: "Fears of a US recession dragging also the rest of the world into an economic slump had a negative impact on base metals." 

Although analysts said that copper, the base metals' bellwether, is the most exposed to a US recession and any spill over to emerging markets, they also point that the red metal's inventories have fallen recently and demand in China remains healthy. 

In addition, Zambia, the world's tenth largest copper producer, on Tuesday said it was rationing power supply to the mines as the country faces shortages, which could reduced copper supply in the next few weeks. 

In spite of the Fed announcement, agricultural commodities fell sharply after strong gains last year and early 2008. In Chicago, CBOT March corn fell 19 cents to $4.79 .25 a bushel and CBOT March wheat loss 23 l cents to $9.39 a bushel. CBOT March soyabean loss 39 cents to $12.25 a bushel.  
   RF61585956   INi81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | i814 : Banking   NSm14 : Commodity Markets | m142 : Metals Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | c33 : Contracts/Orders | c332 : Government Contracts | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | gdip : International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | mpcsmt : Precious Metals Markets | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTCOM00020080123e41m00016  



 HDFT.com site : Pressure on ECB to soften tough line.    BYRalph Atkins in Frankfurt    WC590 words   PD22 January 2008   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPThe steep cut in US interest rates intensified the pressure on the European Central Bank to soften its hardline stance and pave the way for eurozone borrowing costs to fall as well. 

The ECB dislikes any suggestion of being pushed around by financial markets or politicians. But it is aware that the economic outlook for the 15-country eurozone could change in the light of US events and that its reaction might have a direct impact on market nerves. 
   TDFinancial markets on Tuesday fully priced in a quarter percentage point cut in ECB rates to 3.75 per cent by May. "The pressure for a careful and timely recalibration of their rhetoric has clearly increased," said Marco Annunziata, chief economist of Unicredit.

The ECB's focus, in public at least, will remain on inflation - which at 3.1 per cent remains far beyond its target range of an annual rate "below but close" to 2 per cent. But ECB president Jean-Claude Trichet's warning less than two weeks ago - when he said "pre-emptive" interest rate rises were possible to head off inflationary threats posed by high wage settlements - appears overtaken by events. 

If nothing else, the ECB could argue that the heightened economic gloom and financial turmoil will help curb wage demands. 

Amid signs of differing opinion among the members of the ECB's 21-strong governing council, the central bank's message had started to moderate even before yesterday's Federal Reserve move, with several making clear that eurozone growth forecasts were rapidly becoming over-optimistic. 

While the eurozone has not seen a general housing market collapse and has largely escaped direct macroeconomic consequences of the credit squeeze, the threat of a US recession is a serious concern. Tumbling equity prices, if sustained, would add to the risks to the real economy by threatening business confidence, for instance, even if the impact would not be as great as in the US or UK. 

In judging the impact on inflation, the ECB will want to avoid drawing hasty conclusions. Some in Frankfurt might fear the Fed over-reacted on Tuesday. For now, eurozone economic fundamentals remain sound in the ECB's view, especially with unemployment falling - unlike in the US. Jurgen Stark, ECB executive board member responsible for economic analysis, warned against "angst and panic" in an interview with Die Zeit, the German newspaper, released last night, adding that eurozone growth could remain in line with its long-term trend. 

What is likely to be crucial is the extent of the US slowdown. If it can notch up positive growth, albeit it at a significantly slower pace, the idea the eurozone could grow this year at a rate approaching 2 per cent (after 2.6 per cent in 2007) would not seem outlandish. But a full-blown US recession, coupled with sustained financial market turmoil, would drag eurozone growth lower. 

Ken Wattret of BNP Paribas said that in early 2001 the ECB had also taken a relatively optimistic stance on the eurozone's ability to shake off problems from across the Atlantic. "In the end, the spillover from the recession in the US, problems in equity markets and the recognition that the eurozone economy was in trouble saw the ECB capitulate, despite uncomfortable inflation and a low euro exchange rate." 

In May 2001 the ECB cut its main interest rate by a quarter point, initiating an easing cycle not reversed until December 2005.  
   RF61594809   INi81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | i814 : Banking   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | c152 : Earnings Projections | e52 : Euro Zone/Currency | ecat : Economic News | ecbnk : European Central Bank | eec : European Union | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTCOM00020080123e41m00024  



 HDFT.com site : Overview: Fed's cut fails to reassure nervous investors.    BYDave Shellock    WC771 words   PD23 January 2008   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPUS and European share prices suffered further heavy falls on Wednesday as the Federal Reserve's emergency interest rate cut on Tuesday failed to dispel fears that the US was sliding into recession. 

The turbulence in equity markets prompted a fresh flight to the relative safety of government bonds and pushed the yen higher as investors cut their exposure to risky carry trades. 
   TDAnalysts said the markets were now expecting further action from the Fed next week after the unscheduled 75 basis point cut in the Fed funds rate. 

Jens Nordvig at Goldman Sachs said the Fed would deliver another 50bp of easing at its January 30 meeting. 

"But we have kept the end-point for Fed funds at 2.50 per cent and we still expect that to be reached in the third quarter of the year although we recognise that there is now downside risk to this forecast," he said. 

David Rosenberg, chief North American economist at Merrill Lynch, said he believed the Fed needed eventually to get the funds rate back to 1 per cent. 

"This may sound aggressive but Fed easing cycles in recessions almost always see the prior tightening cycle completely unwind," he said. 

"The serious nature of the current housing deflation and credit crunch environment makes the case for an aggressive easing in policy all the more compelling." 

However, Marco Annunziata, economist at UniCredit, warned that the danger now was that the Fed's move would corroborate the markets' belief that a recession was already under way and, therefore, raise expectations for more and more rate cuts - which could lead to the Fed running out of options. 

He added: "If we are not in a deep recession, then heading to a Fed funds rate of 2 per cent or lower would be an overreaction that would push us, dangerously, back to square one where all this mess started in the first place." 

There was no respite for US equities as disappointing earnings forecasts from Apple and Motorola further undermined sentiment. By midday in New York, the S&P 500 index was down 1.9 per cent and heading for its a sixth successive drop - the worst losing streak since 2002. 

Uncertainty about the outlook for US stocks drove the Vix volatility index - also known as Wall Street's "fear gauge" - to its highest since March 2003. 

European stocks took an even worse battering as they suffered from fresh concerns about further bank writedowns. 

The pan-European FTSE Eurofirst 300 index fell 3.2 per cent, London's FTSE 100 fell 2.3 per cent and the Dax index in Frankfurt tumbled 4.9 per cent. 

But it was a different story in Asia as equity markets across the region gave a cautious welcome to the Fed's move. In Tokyo, the Nikkei 225 rose 2 per cent while Hong Kong soared 10.7 per cent, Mumbai climbed 5.2 per cent and Shanghai gained 3.1 per cent. 

Government bond yields fell to fresh lows as investors continued to shift away from volatile equity markets. The yield on the 30-year US Treasury hit a record low of 4.1 per cent before pulling back up slightly. 

The 10-year yield was 9bp lower at 3.32 per cent, after earlier touching a 4l-year low of 3.29 per cent, and the two-year was 8bp lower at 1.88 per cent. 

In Europe, the 10-year Bund yield fell 10bp to 3.88 per cent and the two-year tumbled 19bp to 3.22 per cent. 

The widening aversion to risk was underlined by a surge in the spread of emerging market debt over Treasury bonds to more than 300bp for the first time in more than two years. 

Risk aversion was also evident in the currency markets as the yen hit its highest level against the dollar since May 2005 and also gained ground against the euro. 

The euro remained on the back foot amid growing concerns that eurozone growth would weaken this year - and possibly push the European Central Bank to soften its interest rate stance. 

However, Jean-Claude Trichet, the ECB president, continued to sound a warning about the dangers of inflation when he addressed the European Parliament. 

In commodities, oil prices retreated amid persistent fears that a US slowdown would dent demand. February West Texas was down $2 at $87.21 a barrel. Gold had a volatile session - trading in a $20 range - but settled little changed at $887.21 a troy ounce.  
   RF61623098   INi81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | i814 : Banking   NSm11 : Equity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | c33 : Contracts/Orders | c332 : Government Contracts | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | gpol : Domestic Politics | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTCOM00020080124e41n0002w  



 HDFT.com site : Markets remain pessimistic despite Fed cut.    BYChris Giles in Davos, Ralph Atkins in Frankfurt and Paul J Davies in London    WC556 words   PD23 January 2008   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPThe financial markets, business leaders and economists on Wednesday took a pessimistic view of the likely effect of the dramatic US interest rate cut. 

There was also a growing sense of a split between the European central banks and the US Federal Reserve as Jean-Claude Trichet, president of the European Central Bank, made clear to the parliament in Brussels that it would not bow easily to pressure for eurozone interest rate cuts. On Tuesday night Mervyn King, governor of the Bank of England, had talked down expectations of substantial rate cuts in the UK. 
   TDAlthough Asian markets - which had closed before Tuesday's rates cut of 75 basis points - reacted positively, in both Europe and the US the decision the outlook was uniformly bleak. 

In London the FTSE 100 lost most of what it had recovered in the previous day's session immediately after the Fed's move. The index closed down 130.8 points, or 2.3 per cent, at 5609.3. The FTSE Eurofirst 300 closed down 41.97 points or 3.2 per cent, at 1262.40. Germany's Xtetra Dax index lost 4.88 per cent and is now down 20 per cent this month. 

In midday trading, the S&P 500 was heading for its sixth straight day of losses, after falling 25.62 points, almost 2 per cent, to 1284.88. By mid-afternoon, the major US indices had recovered much of their losses but remained in negative territory. 

The US Treasury markets showed that many are still expecting more cuts as investors headed for safe havens, sending prices higher and yields lower. The 30-year Treasury yield hit 4.101 per cent, its lowest ever level. In spite of Mr Trichet's hawkish tone, markets are stil pricing in several ECB rate cuts this year. 

The continued sell-off mainly reflected worries over the prospects of the US slipping into a painful recession, but there are also concerns that central banks will not have the ability to support their economies whatever they do. 

Professor Joseph Stiglitz, of Columbia University, said economic forces meant the cut would be as effective as "pushing on a piece of string". 

The Fed's gambit also drew criticism. Stephen Roach of Morgan Stanley said the Fed's policy was "a dangerous and reckless and irresponsible way to run the world economy". 

Others felt the action came too little and too late. George Soros, the hedge fund manager, said the Fed was "well behind the curve" and said it would be hard for the US and UK to avoid recession. 

John Studzinski, head of the advisory business of the US private equity firm Blackstone, said in Davos: "Until the markets see a lot more leadership on a proactive basis rather than a reactive basis you are going to continue to see this great anxiety. " 

The reactions were not entirely negative, however. Larry Fink, chief executive of BlackRock, the largest publicly traded US fund management group, told the FT the markets were "neurotic" and added: "The Fed's move was appropriate - it wasn't a statement of panic. The Fed cuts will do the job but it will take time."  
   RF61624038   INi81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | i814 : Banking   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | e52 : Euro Zone/Currency | ecat : Economic News | ecbnk : European Central Bank | eec : European Union | gpol : Domestic Politics | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations   REbelg : Belgium | eland : England | eurz : Europe | uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | benluxz : Benelux Countries | eecz : European Union Countries | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTCOM00020080124e41n0003h  



 HDFT.com site : Soros accuses Fed of panic rate cut.   BYChris Giles, Economics Editor, in Davos     WC620 words   PD23 January 2008   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2008 The Financial Times Ltd. All rights reserved. Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the web.  
   LPReaction to the US Federal Reserve's 0.75 percentage point cut in interest rates ranged from the hostile to lukewarm as policymakers, businessmen and economists chewed over the move at the World Economic Forum.

In one Davos session almost 60 per cent of the -delegates voted in favour of a motion saying central banks had lost both their focus and control with respect to -economic governance. In another, business leaders listed economic mismanagement as one of the biggest threats to the world economy.
   TDSpeaking to FT.com's View from the Top, George Soros, the head of his own hedge fund, accused the Fed of cutting rates in a "rather panicky way . . . because people fear there are hidden problems" which had yet to surface.

"Then there is worry about the monoline [insurers] and there may be another problem with money market funds," he said.

The response was not entirely negative. John Snow, former US Treasury secretary, and Angel Gurria, secretary-general of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, supported the move.

"This gives credibility to the fiscal package [of tax cuts] in the US and covers the short term while households wait for their cheques," Mr Gurria said after a Davos session.

Fred Bergsten, the director of the Washington-based Peterson Institute for International Economics, supported the Fed's actions, but told the FT that, since he expected the US economy to recover later in the year, "the Fed may have to reverse its actions".

But those offering praise were in the minority. Echoing comments on Tuesday from Mervyn King, the Bank of England governor, Edmund Phelps, the Nobel prize-winning economist from Columbia University, told the FT he was sceptical of policies that tried to avoid a necessary workout of private sector problems.

"I worry over the call of politicians to 'prevent a recession' as if interest rate cuts by the Fed and tax rebates could combat or undo the structural forces unleashed by the weakness in the banking sector," he said.

Two general criticisms emerged. First, that the timing of the move - just a week before a regular meeting of the Federal open markets committee - suggested panic and attempted to offer too much succour to equity markets. And second, that the policy would not work.

Writing in his FT.com blog, Sir Howard Davies,director of the London School of Economics and a former chairman of the UK financial regulator, said the move reminded him of the character Corporal Jones in the long-running UK sitcom Dad's Army, who always shouted "Don't panic" as he and everyone else were doing just that.

Stephen Roach, of Morgan Stanley, said such attempted market friendly action was the wrong way to run a central bank. "The next meeting is in seven days. What's the difference if they move [on Tuesday] or in seven days?"

Nouriel Roubini of New York University, a bear on the US and global economy, agreed and called for a more symmetric approach from the Fed. "There was a Greenspan put and now there is a Bernanke put," he said, in reference to the perception that the Fed chairman always cuts interest rates when investors lose money.

But the more worrying suggestion by many was that the action might not be sufficiently effective to head-off a US recession.Prof Joe Stiglitz, a Nobel prize-winning economist at Columbia University, said the Fed's action was "too late" and, with structural forces in the US housing and financial systems likely to bring a contraction, would be as effective as "pushing on a piece of string". 
   RF61639540   COwecof : World Economic Forum   INi81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | i814 : Banking   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTCOM00020080125e41n0000a  



 HDFT.com site : US economy: Tough call for Fed.    BYKrishna Guha    WC868 words   PD23 January 2008   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPThe US is in an exceptionally difficult situation, with the economy on the brink of recession and limited scope for policymakers to ride to the rescue. 

To some analysts it looks like payback time after a decade in which the US lived beyond its means with the help of generous foreign creditors and a booming housing market. 
   TDThat view ignores the essential role the US played in supporting global growth for much of the 2000s. 

But there is no doubt that the US is in double trouble today because of the excesses of the past and the vulnerabilities associated with global economic imbalances. 

The collapse of the twin bubbles in the housing and credit markets is a massive shock for the US economy and one that would be difficult to manage in the most favourable of circumstances. 

The US has endured financial market crises before but this turmoil reflects and magnifies a far-reaching development: the sharp reversal in US house prices. 

The dual deflation - of housing and housing-related assets - has already devastated home construction and is now threatening to sap consumer spending and erode the lending capacity of the banking system. 

Meanwhile dysfunction in the financial system through which monetary policy operates has limited the stimulative effect of interest rate cuts by the Federal Reserve. 

The twin bubbles and global imbalances are related, as Robert Dugger of Tudor Investments has argued. The US manufactured hundreds of billions of dollars of securities to sell to foreigners in order to finance its giant current account deficit. 

Meanwhile the downward pressure of excess savings outside the US on government bond yields induced investors of all kinds to seek ways to boost yield, compressing risk premiums to unsustainably low levels and - among other things - fuelling the subprime mortgage market. 

Now the housing/credit market bust is moderating the current account imbalance - and the savings/investment balance that is its counterpart. 

But as Martin Feldstein, a professor at Harvard, says, it is happening "through a reduction in investment primarily in housing rather than an increase in saving". 

A substantial fall in the dollar was required to deliver the external adjustment that has taken place so far: economists differ as to whether more will be needed. 

On the plus side, world growth remains strong, providing a much-needed lifeline for the US. Net exports should continue to lend some support to US growth in the coming quarters, though not as much as in the middle of 2007. 

On the minus side, the Fed - like other central banks - has to cope with the risks to inflation from the oil price shock caused by surging demand for energy in China, India and the rest of the emerging economies. 

The still very large current account deficit makes the Fed balancing act vastly more difficult. With little scope to inflate more asset bubbles at home, one of the main ways in which monetary policy works is through the dollar and net exports. 

The significant decline in the dollar since the credit squeeze began is not an accident - the Fed needed the dollar to fall to stimulate the US economy. 

But the US central bank's ability to cut rates aggressively is limited by the structural vulnerability of the dollar arising from the external deficit. 

Indeed, the events of the past year or so constitute close to a perfect storm for the dollar, with a deterioration in both US short-term and long-term growth prospects, declining interest rates on US assets and a shock to confidence in the transparency and liquidity of US financial markets. 

Excessive rate cuts could push oil up further and unleash inflation expectations when US headline inflation is high and core inflation creeping up. 

The Fed is widely criticised in the financial markets for being behind the curve on monetary policy. But with inflation consistently above the Fed's implicit target, a large external deficit and a vulnerable currency, the Fed was almost obliged to stay a fraction to the hawkish side of the market. The Fed now appears to be throwing caution to the wind and adopting a more aggressive stance on rate cuts. 

This holds out some promise for growth, but brings the risks to inflation and the dollar closer. Ben Bernanke, Fed chairman, is presumably betting that recession fear will tamp down price and wage pressure. But if inflation expectations start to move up, the Fed will be in a real bind. 

Meanwhile the Fed's dilemma explains why so many top economists in the US are now advocating a fiscal stimulus to bypass the financial system, boost spending, and take some of the pressure off the central bank and monetary policy. 

Such a stimulus now looks likely. The question is whether it will come in time to do any good. A fiscal stimulus will reduce US national savings further, and put upward pressure on the current account deficit, though not dollar for dollar. 

From the US point of view what might be even more helpful would be stimulus - monetary and fiscal - in the rest of the world. 

Krishna Guha is the FT's US Economics Editor  
   RF61608593   INireest : Real Estate | icre : Construction/Real Estate   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1101 : Economic Growth | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTCOM00020080124e41n0000b  



 HDFed Rate Cut Halts Market Free Fall, But Recession Fears Are Mounting --- Foreign Shares' Tumble Prompts Bernanke Call; Biggest Trim in 20 Years      BYBy Greg Ip      WC2,720 words   PD23 January 2008   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGA1   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 2008, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)   
   CXCorrections & Amplifications   

The market value of Russia's MICEX index was $1.057 trillion Tuesday, down about $160 billion from the end of 2007. A chart accompanying a page-one article Wednesday about market downturns around the world incorrectly gave the market value as $2.88 trillion, down $270 billion.   

(WSJ Jan. 26, 2008)   

(END)   
   LPBen Bernanke blinked.   

The Federal Reserve chairman, who normally tries to avoid reacting directly to financial markets, saw global markets in free fall, and yesterday abruptly orchestrated the single deepest cut in the Fed's main interest-rate target in more than two decades.   
   TDThe move shored up confidence, at least for the moment. U.S. and many global markets quickly rebounded from huge losses in response to the three-quarter percentage-point cut in the target for the federal-funds rate, to 3.5%.   

But in a sign that risks to the U.S. and global economy remain strong, the Fed hinted another rate cut next week is likely. The central bank's moves may be too late to stop the U.S. from entering recession, as many economists now forecast, but it may make one milder and shorter.   

By acting so explicitly in response to market developments -- just a week before a scheduled meeting to decide on rates -- the Fed is running a risk. Investors may view the steps as panicky, undermining the goal of the rate cuts. And investors may come to judge the Fed's success narrowly, by how the stock market, rather than the economy as a whole, performs.   

Still, Fed officials agreed on the emergency move during a videoconference call convened hastily Monday evening by Mr. Bernanke. It came after Mr. Bernanke spent Monday in the office, despite the national holiday, watching the fallout as Asian and European markets plummeted and consulting with aides. Futures markets Monday were predicting a 4% plunge Tuesday in U.S. stocks.   

His main concern: Investor fears of an economic catastrophe could become self-fulfilling. Another big drop in U.S. stocks, on top of a 15% decline since last October, would represent a hit to household wealth on top of eroding home values. Falling asset prices could force banks to take more write-downs, further eroding capital and constricting credit. Mr. Bernanke believed the Fed should try to short-circuit the negative psychology, and that it stood a better chance by acting right away instead of waiting a week. It was the first time the Fed has cut rates between meetings since the aftermath of the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001.   

The Dow Jones Industrial Average, down as much as 464 points early in the morning, later recovered to close down 128.11 points, or 1%. European markets, which were falling steeply for a second straight day, reversed course and closed higher on the Fed's action.   

"Appreciable downside risks to growth remain," the Fed said in a statement, vowing to "act in a timely manner as needed to address those risks." Futures markets see a high likelihood of another half-point cut, to 3%, at the meeting scheduled for next Tuesday and Wednesday , and see the Fed bringing its target as low as 2% by year end.   

"The sense was that we were facing a meltdown," said former Fed governor Laurence Meyer, now at forecasting firm  Macroeconomic Advisers LLC. "That was the reason for trying to get out in front rather than trying to sit out on the sidelines." The move would be "pointless" if it merely shifted a scheduled rate cut ahead by a week, he added. The aim, he predicted, is to get the rate lower by month's end than it otherwise would have been. He predicted a half-point cut next week.   

Mr. Bernanke's rate cut is a telling sign of the urgency with which policy makers are responding to the risk of recession. The Bush administration is pushing for a fiscal stimulus package of $145 billion composed primarily of temporary tax breaks. Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson told the U.S. Chamber of Commerce in response to a question yesterday that the Fed's rate cut is "constructive . . . That should be a confidence builder." After President Bush met congressional leaders at the White House amid growing anxiety about the economy, there was speculation that a fiscal stimulus bill might exceed $145 billion, or that it might be accompanied by measures that would take effect automatically later in the year if the economy weakens.   

The odds of recession are rising, and some economists believe the U.S. already has entered one, or is about to do so. "The best forecast now, based on guesstimates of first-quarter data, is that we're not in a recession right now," said Robert Gordon, a Northwestern University economist who sits on the academic National Bureau of Economic Research committee that officially dates recessions. But he says odds favor a recession starting late this quarter or next quarter.  Merrill Lynch yesterday predicted that the economy will contract in each of the first three quarters of the year.   

Today's economy shows some signs that are common to most recessions: Stock prices are falling; long-term interest rates are dropping below the level of short-term rates; housing construction is declining; and the unemployment rate is up sharply.   

But some usual indicators aren't flashing recession. Employers haven't trimmed employee work weeks, as they commonly do when demand trails off; initial claims for unemployment insurance have been dropping recently, and inventories aren't unusually high, which makes it less urgent for manufacturers to scale back production. "There is no clear evidence" a recession has begun, said Victor Zarnowitz, a scholar at the Conference Board who is also a member of the NBER committee, "but it bears watching very, very closely."   

Consumers are feeling the pinch of weaker job growth and higher energy prices. Darion Hammie of Inglewood, Calif., who makes about $50,000 as logistics coordinator for a freight-forwarding company, has been cutting back on everything from Christmas toys to organic groceries. Her wages are rising, but rent on her two-bedroom house has risen $200 to $1,400 a month from last year. Filling her Ford Explorer costs $80, up from $40 or $50 a few years ago. So she has largely abandoned Whole Foods for less-expensive supermarkets, and enrolled her children in the lunch program at school. "I have to make choices that I never thought I would have to make," she says.   

Businesses are also cutting back in response to tighter lending conditions and weaker demand. Dan Imbrogno, president of Ohio Screw Products Inc., a manufacturer in Elyria, Ohio, started noticing a slowdown in inquiries a few months ago in September, which accelerated in the past month. His company, which makes hydraulic fittings as well as screws and bolts, took delivery of a computerized metal-cutting machine last fall that cost more than $100,000 and was planning to get a second machine early this year. He has now canceled the order.   

The Fed move marks a radical shift for Mr. Bernanke. Since August, the Fed has cut its target for the federal-funds rate -- at which banks lend to each other overnight -- three times by a full percentage point. But at no time was it willing to say it was more worried about the weakening economy than inflation, a reflection of the stubbornness of price pressures emanating in particular from energy costs.   

But by earlier this month, weakening employment, retail sales and manufacturing activity convinced Mr. Bernanke the risks to the economy were paramount. In a Jan. 10 speech he promised "substantive" action, widely read as a promise to cut rates further. Many in the markets expected a cut shortly at that time. Some Fed officials saw merit in the idea.   

Mr. Bernanke thought it better to act at next week's scheduled meeting. But market events forced his hand. Last week, bond insurers faced the threat of rating downgrades that would force banks to take on billions of dollars of added default risk, and then came the global stock-market plunge on Monday.   

The Fed itself and markets were closed for the Martin Luther King Jr. holiday, but Mr. Bernanke -- who comes into the office seven days a week -- was at his desk. After consulting with Federal Reserve Bank of New York President Timothy Geithner and Vice Chairman Donald Kohn, he convened a videoconference call of the Federal Open Market Committee. Since economic fundamentals justified a significant rate cut, the main issue was convincing the committee that it should be done now. All but one of the participants, William Poole, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, voted for the move. He didn't believe conditions justified moving before the meeting, the Fed said. Another member, Fed governor Frederic Mishkin, was on a skiing trip and unable to get to a secure Fed facility in time for the session.   

The timing may resurrect accusations that the Fed is too quick to bail out investors at the expense of low inflation and prudent behavior. And by setting aside the longstanding preference of moving only at meetings, the FOMC risks looking desperate. Vincent Reinhart, a former top staffer at the Fed who is now a scholar at the American Enterprise Institute, said the Fed may have put itself in "harm's way" by basing its action so explicitly on market developments.   

"If markets go down after you've acted, do you jeopardize some of your credibility? I think they did," Mr. Reinhart says. If market panic resumes, "You are then faced with the question, what is plan B?"   

But former Fed governor Lyle Gramley, who now follows the Fed for Stanford Washington Group, says the risk of not acting was larger. "You have a credibility problem whenever things don't go right," he said. "You have a much larger credibility problem twiddling your thumbs, doing nothing, when the economy is going down the tubes."   

Before announcing the rate cut Tuesday, the Fed notified its counterparts in Japan, Britain, Canada and the European Central Bank. By the end of the day, only the  Bank of Canada had followed suit, lowering its short-term rate a quarter of a percentage point at a scheduled meeting, as expected. But the governor of the Bank of England suggested rate cuts in the U.K. are likely, and markets anticipate the European Central Bank -- despite its tough rhetoric about inflation worries -- will follow later this year.   

The Fed said it acted because of a "weakening of the economic outlook and increasing downside risks to growth. Broader financial market conditions have continued to deteriorate and credit has tightened further for some businesses and households. Moreover, incoming information indicates a deepening of the housing contraction as well as some softening in labor markets." It also said it expects "inflation to moderate in coming quarters" though it will "monitor inflation developments carefully."   

Stanford economist Robert Hall, chairman of the seven-member NBER committee that dates recession, said colleagues on the usually dormant panel have begun to discuss the numbers by email. "The crystallizing event was the weak employment numbers at the beginning of the month," Mr. Hall said. It would not announce a starting date for any recession until well after one has started, he said.   

Typically, lower interest rates begin to help revive a sagging economy by spurring purchases and construction of homes. But the deflating real-estate boom has left an unprecedented share of homes standing unsold and vacant, says Columbia Business School economist Christopher Mayer, suggesting the moves may have less effect than usual. "No matter how much the Fed cuts interest rates we are not going to see an appreciable pickup in home construction for a couple of years," he says.   

Lou Barnes, president of Boulder West Inc., a Lafayette, Colo., mortgage bank, said the cuts will help only those home buyers who qualify for prime mortgages of $417,000 or less. Banks that used to originate mortgages for less-than-perfect credits or for amounts above $417,000 are reluctant to do so because they can't sell them to investors and have little room left on their own balance sheets for them. (Mortgage giants Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac can't buy mortgages above $417,000.)   

Still, lower short-term rates will produce benefits that grow with time. Because banks usually borrow for shorter terms than they lend, the reduction in short-term rates will make lending more profitable and thus appealing. Major banks yesterday lowered their prime lending rates to 6.5% from 7.25%, which will deliver savings to anyone with a prime-linked loan, such as on a home-equity line of credit.   

Stanford's Mr. Hall said while fiscal stimulus plans will take too long to influence the economy significantly, by contrast, "the Fed can turn on a dime as it did this morning. Claims that it's lost its grip on the economy are misplaced."   

The current month is proving to be a critical test of Mr. Bernanke's leadership. He became chairman in February 2006, intending to be more collegial than his predecessor, Alan Greenspan. He made sure fellow FOMC members had their say before he settled on the course for interest rates, tried to stay out of the limelight and to avoid explicit clues on interest rates. While that style worked in his first year on the job, it has been criticized since the crisis erupted in August for encouraging Fed officials to air multiple, often disparate, views when the markets most want clarity. Officials have since been advised to hedge their remarks more carefully, people close to the Fed say.   

Mr. Bernanke also tried to focus the market's attention more on explicit forecasts than verbal clues. In October, the Fed released the first of expanded quarterly economic projections which helped quantify the inflation rate the Fed is aiming for. But like most of the Fed's projections lately, that forecast was made obsolete within days by the intensifying credit crunch and housing slump.   

Wall Street has been quick to vilify Mr. Bernanke for being slow and indecisive. "A number of our clients believe Bernanke has lost it and they are uncertain as to what the Fed is up to," ISI Group, a New York brokerage firm, wrote in a morning report. Greg Peters, head of credit strategy at  Morgan Stanley, said, "I think the Fed definitely has lost a decent amount of credibility . . . they have been behind the curve and reacted to the market and that doesn't engender a lot of confidence."   

But Mr. Bernanke's defenders note he has plenty of company: Most Wall Street economists have also had to mark down growth expectations and mark up expected Fed easing as the outlook has deteriorated since August. Investors also wrongly thought the worst had passed in October when they pushed stocks to their last, all-time high.   

Moreover, even as Mr. Bernanke battles the risk of recession, inflation has not faded from view. "You have the underlying inflation rate moving in the wrong direction," noted Al Broaddus, former president of the Richmond Fed. If the Fed is going to be flexible in the face of risks to growth, "it needs to move back in the other direction as soon as the balance is shifting back towards inflation risk. And it's not easy to do that."   

Yesterday's move came closer to the day of a scheduled meeting than any between-meetings move since the Fed began announcing rate changes in 1994. The Fed last cut the target for the federal-funds rate in one move by as much as three-quarters of a point back in 1982, when it was lowered a full point. Prior to 1994, however, the Fed publicized only the less-important discount rate, charged on the Fed's direct loans to banks. It cut that rate a full percentage point in 1991.   

---   

Sudeep Reddy, Timothy Aeppel, Conor Dougherty and Justin Lahart contributed to this article.   





License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | ecat : Economic News | gvcng : Legislative Branch | gvexe : Executive Branch | gvtre : Treasury Department | m131 : Money Markets | ncrx : Corrected Items | npag : Page-One Story | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCPIC | CNG | EXE | TRE | USG | MMR | TPX | NND | LFT | PGO | TPT   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument J000000020080123e41n0003r  


 HDStocks Show Classic Bear Signals, And This Time, Impact Is Global      BYBy E.S. Browning and Joanna Slater      WC1,220 words   PD23 January 2008   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGA1   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 2008, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)   
   LPA classic bear market starts with a period of exuberance. Then a downturn hits one part of the market, and gradually, the losses spread even to strong companies. A prolonged grind begins.   

It happened in the 1970s, when an oil embargo helped puncture the "nifty fifty" big-company stocks, and again in 2001, when the bursting of the Internet bubble caused a broad decline. Now, investors shaken by two days of severe volatility fear another bear market -- only this time, it would fully span the globe.   
   TDEven as some world-wide markets recovered yesterday on the back of the Federal Reserve's interest-rate cut, the losses have put some markets already in bear territory by the traditional definition of a 20% drop from a high.   

The Russell 2000 small-stock index, bank-stock indexes and the Dow Jones Transportation Average already are down more than 20% from last year's highs. So are benchmark indexes from Switzerland to Taiwan to Chile.   

The Nasdaq Composite Index fell 2.04% yesterday and now is 19.8% off last year's high. The Dow Jones Industrial Average is 15.5% below last October's record. Indexes in India and China are getting close to the 20% mark.   

Some investors don't think a lengthy bear market is upon us. They believe the worst may be over as the Fed moves aggressively to prop up the U.S. economy. Yesterday, markets around the world bounced back, with London rising 2.9% and Brazil 4.5%. Tokyo shares were up more than 3% in trading this morning. The Dow Jones Industrial Average recovered significantly from big losses shortly after the opening bell, though it still finished the day down a little more than 1%.   

Bears see a much longer working-out of the distortions that developed this decade as the U.S., along with many other nations, went through a burst of housing exuberance. Home prices surged far beyond historic levels relative to income. Stocks in home builders, mortgage companies and financial institutions cashing in on the boom all benefited.   

Confident U.S. consumers fed -- and were fed by -- a broader boom abroad, particularly in developing markets such as China and India. Exports from Asian countries excluding Japan grew to 55% of their total economic output in 2005 from 45% in 2001, according to the Asian Development Bank. The lion's share of those exports -- about 60% -- end up in the U.S., Europe and Japan.   

"We are all still tied together one way or another, either psychologically or through trade," said Hans Utsch, who manages the $10.5 billion Federated Kaufmann Fund, which focuses on U.S. midcap stocks but also has 15% of its portfolio in Indian shares. "Only if you're living in a dream world do you say, 'I'm immune.'"   

The current market looks a lot like the beginning of past bear markets, said Paul Desmond, president of market-research firm Lowry's Reports in North Palm Beach, Fla. First, the most troubled stocks decline -- home builders and financial stocks in the current case -- and then others gradually get hit, including small stocks, retailers and technology stocks. Finally even stocks of strong companies are affected.   

Japanese companies, for example, are historically cheap relative to profits, which are rising for a sixth consecutive year. Yet  Toyota Motor Co., the world's most profitable car maker, plunged 7.2% yesterday.   

"There's a crisis of confidence at the moment," said Khiem Do, portfolio manager at Baring Asset Management, which manages about $13 billion in Asia. "In fact, good stocks with strong fundamentals are getting routed because people want to lock in profits."   

As a bear market develops, Mr. Desmond says, trading volume and price movement get heavier and heavier for stocks that are declining, and lighter and lighter on the buying side, as more investors look for a way out. When the selling reaches a climax, the bear market is nearing an end, but Mr. Desmond says he doesn't see any sign of a climax yet.   

"We feel we have been in a bear market since July. Everything that we have seen since then has just been a progression, almost like a disease that you are monitoring and the disease is spreading," he says. "We are still a long way from a major bottom."   

He is watching for a sign of panic selling, but says it hasn't gotten to that point yet. "Everything we are seeing looks like a typical bear market," he says.   

Yesterday, even commodities including oil and copper declined, amid concerns about slower world growth. Investors put money into refuges including gold and Treasury bonds, pushing their prices higher.   

The Fed's move yesterday was hastened by the world-wide market plunge on Monday, when U.S. markets were closed. While some investors thought the Fed's move looked panicky, others liked it because rate cuts reinforce the Fed's willingness to support the economy despite inflation risks.   

One silver lining to the links among world markets: If the Fed rate cuts do blunt the credit crisis and support growth, that should benefit markets world-wide. The U.S. is still by far the biggest, strongest economy in the world. If Americans begin spending and borrowing again, then economies and markets around the world will benefit.   

Investors around the world had their eyes on the Fed yesterday. After the Fed news hit, "everyone was trying to buy and our order screens were full. Then within minutes, that euphoria evaporated," said Martin Slaney, head of derivatives at GFT Global Markets in London. European markets continued to gyrate, although they recovered from the day's lows and many finished with gains for the day.   

The Dow Jones Industrial Average was down 464.48 points, or 3.84%, shortly after the opening bell. It finished down 128.11 points, or 1.06%, at 11971.19, the first finish below 12000 in more than a year. Total trading in New York Stock Exchange-listed stocks hit 6.42 billion shares, the second-heaviest day ever, after last Aug. 16.   

Some more-optimistic investors were beginning to buy already, and others were looking for buying opportunities.   

Uri Landesman, a senior portfolio manager at  ING Investment Management in New York, said he slept fitfully Monday night, with some of his international stocks showing double-digit declines. Yesterday, he went through all of his holdings and came up with seven potential stocks to sell and to buy, but decided to do nothing -- for now. "Anything I want to sell is already oversold," he says. As for buying, he's waiting to see if markets steady.   

Investment strategist Thomas McManus of Banc of America Securities, who last year had urged clients to pull back from stocks, recommended that they buy beaten-down shares, boosting their stock holdings by 5%. U.S. banking stocks, which have been among the hardest-hit in the selloff, staged a recovery yesterday, in part on hopes the rate cut will improve their profit margins.   

---   

Alistair MacDonald in London, Laura Santini in Hong Kong, and Anita Raghavan in New York contributed to this article.   





License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   NSm11 : Equity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | gvexe : Executive Branch | npag : Page-One Story | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REbraz : Brazil | chil : Chile | china : China | eurz : Europe | india : India | jap : Japan | switz : Switzerland | taiwan : Taiwan | uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | asiaz : Asia | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | eecz : European Union Countries | indsubz : Indian Subcontinent | lamz : Latin America | namz : North America | samz : South America | sasiaz : Southern Asia | weurz : Western Europe   IPCDRT | PIC | FED | USG | NND | MHD | PGO | TPT   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument J000000020080123e41n0003t  


 HDChina PBOC Offls: Fed Rate Cut Limits Scope for PBOC Hikes      WC861 words   PD23 January 2008   ET06:27   SNMarket News International   SCMARNEW   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008. Market News International, Inc.   
   TD

--PBOC Officials Say China Rate Hikes Will Have to Slow or End
--Rate Gap Now Reversed; 97 Point Positive Carry With Latest Move

     BEIJING (MNI) - The Federal Reserve's decision to slash US interest 
rates has narrowed the leeway for the Chinese central bank to raise 
borrowing costs because of the need to defend the exchange rate, 
People's  Bank of China officials have told Market News International. 

     They said that the Fed's overnight announcement of a 75 basis point 
cut in the federal funds rate has widened the positive spread between 
Chinese and US interest rates, increasing the attractiveness of bets on 
yuan appreciation and raising the threat of a renewed wave of capital 
inflows.   

     "The PBOC will have to slow its rate hike cycle or even stop 
raising rates altogether," said an official, who asked that he not be 
identified. 

     "If the PBOC raises again, there will be problems. The biggest 
problem is that the yuan is facing bigger appreciation pressure and if 
it rises too quickly, that could hurt exports and Chinese industry." 

     Another official agreed, saying that, in the light of the Fed cut 
"the PBOC doesn't have too much room for further rate hikes." 

     The officials are not directly involved in deciding interest rate 
adjustments. 

     Proposals for interest rate moves are typically submitted by the 
central bank to the State Council, the government's most senior 
decision-making body, which tends to approve adjustments after consensus 
has been achieved. 

     Bond traders interviewed by Market News International Wednesday 
said that the Fed's decision has cast the likelihood of further PBOC 
rate hikes into serious doubt, despite the threat posed by rising 
inflation levels. 

     The opinions of the officials reflect resurgent concerns about the 
impact of interest rate differentials on the Chinese economy and suggest 
that Beijing's focus could revert to defense of the exchange rate. 
     
     The government gradually abandoned its strategy of maintaining a 
sizeable negative spread between Chinese and US rates starting at the 
end of 2005 as Beijing grew more comfortable with yuan appreciation and 
as concerns about economic overheating and inflation began to dominate. 

     Aggressive PBOC rate hikes and a series of easings by the Fed saw 
that gap -- as measured by the yield on one-year PBOC sterilization 
paper and the equivalent US dollar LIBOR -- invert in December. 

     Tuesday's cut has pushed the positive carry to 97 basis points from 
around 60 points last week. 

     The negative spread was in part brought to an end by the PBOC's 
December rate hike, the sixth of the year, though tumbling LIBOR rates 
have played a greater part in its undoing. 

     The collapse and inversion of the spread has come just as the 
government has appears to have allowed the pace of yuan appreciation to 
increase in an apparent bid to lower import costs and help fight 
inflation. The yuan was fixed at a new high of 7.2350 to the US dollar 
on Wednesday, 6.93% above the rate a year ago. 

     But the positive spread could only increase if the Fed cuts by 
another 25 or even 50 points, as some in the market expect it to do when 
it meets next week. 
       
     The first official said that the most recent Chinese interest rate 
adjustment was "not a cautious move," arguing that the government should 
have kept its powder dry. 
      
     "If the Fed continues to cut rates, it's likely that the PBOC will 
have to end its rate hike cycle or even have to cut rates," the official 
said.  

     An official with the National Development and Reform Commission, 
who also asked that he not be identified, agreed that the government 
moved too early in December to hike rates and that the PBOC now has only 
limited room to raise them further. 

     But the official said that further rate hikes could begin to damage 
the economy, arguing that "rate hikes aren't the best solution to 
tackling the current high price levels." 

     The government recently introduced price controls on a range of 
consumer goods, suggesting a greater reliance on heavy-handed 
administrative measures to bring inflation under control. Banks are also 
subject to tougher lending restrictions to bring loan growth and 
investment activity to heel. 

     Despite the threat of more speculative "hot money," pouring into 
the economy, some analysts argue that several tens of basis points may 

not wield substantive influence over the direction of capital flows. 
     
     Stephen Green, an economist with Standard Chartered Bank in 
Shanghai, said that the Fed cut has "certainly created some 
difficulties" for the government in controlling the pace of yuan 
appreciation and loan growth. 

     But he added that the imperative to raise domestic interest rate 
levels remains. 

     "I think it's unwise not to hike as fundamentally there's still 
strong demand pressure in the economy and real interest rates are still 
very low," he said.  

     "If they want a sustainable slowdown they need to raise rates."

                      beijing@marketnews.com
** Market News International Beijing Newsroom +86-10 5864 5241**

[TOPICS: M$Q$$$,M$A$$$,M$$FX$,MMQPB$,MT$$$$,MX$$$$]   
   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REchina : China | usa : United States | asiaz : Asia | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America   PUBMarket News International, Inc.   ANDocument MARNEW0020080123e41n0003h  



 SECOMMENT   HDAmerica's recession will be hard to shift.    BYBy WOLFGANG MUNCHAU    WC944 words   PD21 January 2008   SNFinancial Times   SCFTFT   EDAsia Ed1   PGPage 11   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPMonetary policy affects the economy with long and variable lags. This much we know. How long depends on the state of the economy in question. 

In 2001, the US got away with an unusually short recession helped by aggressive interest rate cuts and an expansionary fiscal policy. But in Japan in the early 1990s, and in Germany in the early part of this decade, it took ages for low interest rates to help the real economy. 
   TDOne of the reasons was that those recessions were aggravated by crises in the financial sector itself. I fear that the US recession of 2008 will be similar in quality - though not necessarily in length and depth - to those in Japan and Germany, rather than to the US recession in 2001. 

Interest rate cuts work their way through to the real economy by a number of transmission channels. During the 2001 recession in the US, the most important was housing credit. The rate cuts came at a time when the housing market was already booming. They turned the boom into a super-boom. Inflationary expectations were low. People expected interest rates to remain low. It was a great moment to take on extra debt, and this was precisely what Americans did. 

The current US downturn could not be more different. House prices are falling, and have further to fall before reaching a more sustainable level (in terms of the price-to-rent ratios as well as several other measures). Core inflation has been above the Federal Reserve's comfort zone for some years now. There is no way that either the Fed, the Bank of England or the European Central Bank could, at this stage, create another housing boom even if they wanted to. Housing downturns have a strong dynamism, which is not easy to break. This is not a great time to take on debts, but to pay them off. 

What about the other channels? 

The corporate credit channel works more slowly. A company faced with an acute downturn in demand for its products is not going to start investing immediately when interest rates fall. At the very least, it would only do so if it expects variable interest rates to remain low for some time. 

For that to happen, inflationary pressures have to be well contained, which they clearly are not. 

Central banks only control the short end of the yield curve. Long-term rates are set in the financial markets. A cut in short-term interest rates that is not matched by falls in long-term interest rates will produce a steeper yield curve. That is quite normal in a recession, but an excessively steep yield curve could become a big problem for the central bank. 

As this newspaper reported last week, the yield difference between the two-year and the 10-year US Treasury notes has reached 1.24 percentage points, the highest level in three years. Long-term interest rates could even go up if bond markets start to distrust the Fed's commitment to maintain a low rate of inflation. 

I assume that this is only a matter of time. With core inflation stubbornly over 2 per cent, the current 10-year yield of 3.8 per cent seems a touch optimistic. So we might be seeing a simultaneous fall in short-term rates and a rise in long-term rates. 

Cui bono? The banks, of course. The bank-bailout channel will be the only monetary transmission mechanism to function like clockwork. The steeper the yield curve, the greater the profits for banks, which make a living by borrowing at short interest rates and lending at long rates. If short rates are going down and long rates are going up, the banking sector is once again in a position to reap risk-free profits. 

So do not be fooled by anybody who says that the central bank should cut interest rates for the benefit of innocent citizens who have been caught up in this maelstrom. The first, second and third beneficiaries of the Federal Reserve's pending helicopter drop of cash will be banks, not ordinary people or companies. 

Eventually, of course, if one maintains an absurdly soft monetary policy for long enough, the cheap money will trickle through the financial sector to the rest of the economy, but at the cost of higher inflation and reduced purchasing power. 

As time goes on, the financial sector's health will gradually improve. Eventually, the credit squeeze will be over - and the next irresponsible lending boom can begin. 

It would therefore be unwise, to say the least, for policymakers to rely on monetary policy alone. By far the best policy response - though clearly limited in scope - is a well-targeted fiscal policy stimulus, a point recently made by Lawrence Summers, the former US Treasury secretary, in his Financial Times column. 

The best stimulus package would be one that could be agreed today, enacted tomorrow, targeted specifically at subprime families, and was only temporary. Back in the real world, where politicians run fiscal policy, this is obviously not going to happen. While the usual pork-barrel-type stimulus package that is now shaping up in the US is far from ideal, it is still marginally better than letting the central bank sort out this mess alone. 

There is no such thing as a standard policy response to all recessions. There are recessions like the one in 2001, which respond well to a monetary policy stimulus. But not all do. This is going to be one of those. 

munchau@eurointelligence.com  
   RF20080121A111.450   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1101 : Economic Growth | e211 : Government Taxation/Revenue | ecat : Economic News | gpol : Domestic Politics | nedc : Commentary/Opinion | e21 : Government Finance | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter   REgfr : Germany | jap : Japan | usa : United States | asiaz : Asia | easiaz : Eastern Asia | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTFT000020080121e41l0000x  



 HDDollar Bank cuts key  interest rate  after  Federal Reserve  decision      WC130 words   PD23 January 2008   ET00:15   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPNEW YORK (AP) - Dollar Bank on Tuesday lowered its prime rate by three-quarters of a percentage point after the Federal Reserve cut its key interest rate.   

Dollar Bank, based in Pittsburgh, said its prime rate is now 6.5 percent. The Fed cut the federal funds rate, which is what banks charge each other for overnight loans, to 3.5 percent from 4.25 percent previously.   
   TDThe prime rate is what banks charge their best customers, and serves as the benchmark for lending rates to all customers for mortgages, credit cards and other products.   

Most banks typically raise or lower their prime rate by an amount equal to the Fed's rate action within minutes of its decision.   
   RF7   INi81501 : Credit Types/Services | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagapf | selapfin | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | APFN Dollar Bank Prime Rate | D8UB7JIO0   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020080122e41m003o4  



 HDFriday's Top Stories in the United States and Mexico      WC817 words   PD21 January 2008   ET07:35   SNMarket News International   SCMARNEW   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008. Market News International, Inc.   
   TD

     * Next Wk/US:  The week ahead is shortened by the M.L. King, Jr. 
Birthday holiday Monday, probably quite welcome considering the dearth 
of economic data on the calendar and absence of Fed officials from the 
public space during the press blackout period prior to the Jan. 29-30 
FOMC meeting. 
-- The only data of note will be the NAR's December report on existing 
home sales Thursday. Despite a slight uptick in the November numbers, 
the outlook for the housing market remains grim with an overabundance of 
homes on the market and an underabundance of credit with which to 
purchase them. 
-- The Richmond Fed surveys of manufacturing and services for January 
will be on Tuesday.  The weekly measures of retail activity will be
shifted to Wednesday due to the holiday. 
-- Weekly initial jobless claims will offer a revision to the survey 
comparison week. Data for early January can be erratic, so this may not 
be a good comparison of the fundamentals. 
-- The  Bank of Canada is widely expected to cut the overnight rate by 
25 basis points to 4.00% on Tuesday. The Bank of Japan governors meet on 
Jan. 21-22, and no change is expected in rates. The Reserve Bank of New 
Zealand meets on Jan. 24 and no change is anticipated. 

     * Treasuriess gained in short session Friday: On a 3:00 p.m. Thu to 
1:00 pm ET Fri basis close, the cash 2-year note yield declined 8.7 bps 
to 2.342%. The 5-year yield fell 4.8 bps to 2.85%. The 10-year yield 
rose 1.0 bps to 3.649%, and the 30-year yield rose 4.6  bps to  to 
4.299%. The 2-year/5-year curve steepened 3.9 bps to +50.8 bps, the 
2-year/10-year also steepened 9.7 bps to +130.7 0 bps, and the 
2-year/30-year steepened 13.3 bps to +195.7 bps. 

     * The dollar was trading with a mixed tone as the early close of 
the abbreviated U.S. trading session approached, holding slight gains 
vs. the euro but suffering modest losses vs. the yen. Euro-dollar was 
trading at $1.4628 ahead of 1 p.m. EST Friday, not much changed from its 
$1.4645 starting level of the session and about the middle of a 
$1.4603/1.4696 U.S. session range. Dollar-yen meantime was trading at 
Y106.95, below its Y107.46 starting level of the session at the lower 
end of its Y106.80/107.50 range seen in U.S. hours. 

     * The stars in Washington appear to be lining up for a quick 
agreement between President Bush and congressional leaders on an 
economic stimulus package of about $145 billion. Bush's comments Friday 
on the outlines of an economic stimulus package culminated a busy week 
in which leaders from both parties set aside personal mistrust and 
philosophical differences in an attempt to reach an agreement on a 
stimulus plan to shore up the weakening U.S. economy. Bush said a 
package of about 1% of gross domestic product--about $145 billion--would 
be adequate to give a "shot in the arm to keep a fundamentally sound 
economy healthy." 

     * The U.S. economy has gotten worse and may slump further, which 
could require the Federal Reserve to cut interest rates again, Richmond 
Federal Reserve Bank President Jeffrey Lacker said Friday. The Fed has 
already lowered the federal funds rate considerably in response to the 
economic slowdown. But more weakness could prompt further action, said 
Lacker, an alternate Federal Open Market Committee voter for 2008. -- 
Lacker Friday said that he's now more willing to look at further 
interest rate cuts because of new, weak economic data. 

     * Top U.S. bank economists expect the Federal Reserve to cut short 
term interest rates by 50 basis points at the upcoming FOMC meeting, and 
by another 25 basis points in both March and April. They also projected 
Friday that the growth of output and employment will be well below trend 
this year, but there will be a noticeable pickup in the second half, the 
Economic Advisory Council Committee of the American Bankers Association 
said Friday. 

     * Touted as an integral measure to prop up the unsettled housing 
market, the Treasury Department's "Hope Now" program has not fully 
caught the attention of those it aims to help, troubled homeowners 
facing foreclosure, yet there is potential for progress in the weeks 
ahead, an alliance report Friday showed.  

     * The Bank of Mexico kept monetary policy on hold as expected 
Friday, leaving the key overnight rate at 7.50%, but expressed 
continuing concerns about rising food prices and the impact of the U.S. 
slowdown on the Mexican economy. 

     ** Market News International Washington Bureau: 202-371-2121 ** 

     [TOPICS: MNSTNB,MBU$$$]   
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | nsum : News Digest | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | niwe : IWE Filter   REmex : Mexico | usa : United States | camz : Central America | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | lamz : Latin America | namz : North America   PUBMarket News International, Inc.   ANDocument MARNEW0020080121e41l00022  



 HDFed Cuts Rates Aggressively, Sets Stage for More Next Week      WC1,240 words   PD22 January 2008   ET16:16   SNMarket News International   SCMARNEW   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008. Market News International, Inc.   
   TD

By Steven K. Beckner
               
     Market News International - In the wake of a global market collapse 
that portended further heavy losses of equity wealth in the United 
States, the Federal Reserve chose to act immediately and aggressively 
before U.S. markets opened Tuesday morning to protect the economy, 
rather than wait for next week's regularly scheduled Federal Open Market 
Committee meeting. 

     The Fed set aside its inflation concerns for the time being and 
slashed the short-term rates it controls by three quarters of a 
percentage point. More easing seems sure to come -- and soon. 

     With only a week before its first meeting of 2008 was set to begin, 
the FOMC slashed the key federal funds rate 75 basis points to 3.5% 
following an emergency conference call. The Board of Governors, the core 
of the FOMC, cut the discount rate a like amount to 4%. 

     It was the FOMC's first intermeeting rate cut since September 17, 
2001, after the 9/11 terrorist attacks. That year had begun with an 
intermeeting cut on Jan. 3 amid growing worries about recession and 
deflation risks. 

     The 75 basis point rate cut, which took the federal funds rate to 
its lowest level since August 2005, was the largest the FOMC has made 
since October 1984 and is proportionately much bigger, since the FOMC at 
that time was cutting from 11.30%. 

     Notwithstanding the magnitude of this morning's easing move, few 
expect it to be the last. The only question in Fed watchers' minds is 
how much further the FOMC will cut the funds rate at the end of two days 
of meetings next Tuesday and Wednesday. Views differ. 

     Only St. Louis Federal Reserve Bank President William Poole 
dissented against the action, preferring to wait until next week. 

     U.S. Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson praised the Fed for 
demonstrating that it is "nimble and able to move quickly" and said the 
outsized easing move "should be a confidence builder." 

     In making a preemptive rate cut of this magnitude before the real 
economy is clearly in recession, the FOMC has temporarily deferred its 
concerns about elevated inflation. Poole, ironically, among other 
officials, had said recently that "contained" inflation expectations 
give the Fed the latitude to ease substantially if needed without much 
inflationary consequences. 

     In announcing the rate cuts, the Fed said the FOMC "took this 
action in view of a weakening of the economic outlook and increasing 
downside risks to growth." 

     "While strains in short-term funding markets have eased somewhat, 
broader financial market conditions have continued to deteriorate and 
credit has tightened further for some businesses and households," the 
statement continued. "Moreover, incoming information indicates a 
deepening of the housing contraction as well as some softening in labor 
markets." 

     The announcement added that "the Committee expects inflation to 
moderate in coming quarters, but it will be necessary to continue to 
monitor inflation developments carefully." 

     In a clear, implied policy bias toward further rate reductions, the 
Fed declared, "appreciable downside risks to growth remain." And it said 
the FOMC "will continue to assess the effects of financial and other 
developments on economic prospects and will act in a timely manner as 
needed to address those risks." 

     Leading up to the Fed action, there had been a series of weaker- 
than-expected economic numbers starting with a surprisingly weak 
December employment report and continuing with a decline in retail sales 
and flat industrial production. 

     But the real proximate cause of the Fed's dramatic rate cuts, 
undoubtedly, was financial, not economic. 

     On Monday, when U.S. markets were closed in observance of Martin 
Luther King day, foreign markets were validating the adage that when the 
United States sneezes, the world catches cold. 

     With recession talk mounting, investors' hopes dimmed for 
profitable exports to the huge U.S. market. Neither Fed Chairman Ben 
Bernanke's interest rate cut signals nor President Bush's proposed $145 
billion fiscal stimulus plan were enough to support stocks around the 
world. 

     Investors worldwide have become increasingly risk averse, both 
because of uncertainty over what new subprime mortgage related losses 
might be revealed in the financial sector and because of fear that 
forthcoming corporate earnings reports will reflect a fall-off of demand 
for companies' goods and services. 

     Starting with a near 4% drop in Japan, the selling wave gained 
momentum as markets opened. Hong Kong's Hang Seng index plunged 5.5%; 
Indian stocks slid 7.4%. In Europe, stocks were down 6.8% in France, 
7.2% in Germany and 5.5% in London. 

     Early Tuesday, U.S. stock futures were down sharply ahead of the 
opening bell, and cash was flooding into safe haven Treasury securities, 
depressing their yields. 

      Bank of America chief economist Mickey Levy said that in acting as 
it did, the FOMC "clearly acknowledged that it was behind the curve in 
easing." And he said the Fed "knows its credibility would be damaged if 
the economy slipped into recession." 

     Levy predicted the Fed "will continue to ease," but said he expects 
only a 25 basis point rate cut at next week's meeting because the Fed 
has already "eased aggressively." 

     "The problem we run into is that the problems facing the economy 
and the financial system are centered around housing and the subprime 
mortgage market," Levy continued. "The Fed can't resolve all of the 
economy's problems." 

     Besides, he added, "the real difficulty we face now is that 
monetary policy works with a lag." So the Fed's rate cuts will not take 
effect for awhile. And yet, he went on, "I've never seen a situation 
where market psychology has spiraled down so far relative to economic 
fundamentals." 

     Others are expecting continued aggressive easing next week. 
 Wachovia senior economist Mark Vitner said a 50 basis point rate cut 
next Wednesday afternoon is apt to be announced. 

     Vitner observed that there is "a disconnect" between the economy 
and financial markets. "The economy doesn't look nearly as sick as the 
financial markets." He noted that weekly jobless claims have been 
falling, for example. 

     Even so, "it has to be 50," Vitner said. "I really don't think you 
do 75 today and then say we can just do 25 next week unless we see a 
total reversal in global stock markets." 

     Vitner said the FOMC needs to "be definitive" and "take the real 
federal funds rate down into negative territory." 

     The Fed's attitude should be: We don't have a recession, but we're 
going to conduct monetary policy as if we have one," said Vitner. 

     Levy, a former colleague of Poole on the monetarist Shadow Open 
Market Committee, said the FOMC need not worry about inflation for the 
time being. 

     "Core inflation is going to decelerate in response to slower 
nominal spending growth and weaker economic activity," Levy projected. 
"Eventually this Fed easing will generate stronger nominal spending 
growth, but only with a lag after that will it generate higher 
inflation." 

     "Eventually some of (the easing) will have to be taken away," said 
Levy, "but inflation is not a problem." 

     In a Jan. 15 article, Market News International reported that "an 
'exceptionally alert' group of Federal Reserve policymakers could 
conceivably act preemptively at almost any time in an effort to provide 
for economic and financial stability, depending on the stimuli." 

[TOPICS: MMUFE$,MT$$$$,MAUDS$,M$U$$$,MI$$$$,M$X$$$,M$A$$$]   
   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | e1101 : Economic Growth | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBMarket News International, Inc.   ANDocument MARNEW0020080122e41m000bx  



 HDFed Cuts Rates Aggressively, Sets Stage for More Next Week      WC1,242 words   PD22 January 2008   ET16:16   SNMarket News International   SCMARNEW   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008. Market News International, Inc.   
   TD

By Steven K. Beckner
               
     Market News International - In the wake of a global market collapse 
that portended further heavy losses of equity wealth in the United 
States, the Federal Reserve chose to act immediately and aggressively 
before U.S. markets opened Tuesday morning to protect the economy, 
rather than wait for next week's regularly scheduled Federal Open Market 
Committee meeting. 

     The Fed set aside its inflation concerns for the time being and 
slashed the short-term rates it controls by three quarters of a 
percentage point. More easing seems sure to come -- and soon. 

     With only a week before its first meeting of 2008 was set to begin, 
the FOMC slashed the key federal funds rate 75 basis points to 3.5% 
following an emergency conference call. The Board of Governors, the core 
of the FOMC, cut the discount rate a like amount to 4%. 

     It was the FOMC's first intermeeting rate cut since September 17, 
2001, after the 9/11 terrorist attacks. That year had begun with an 
intermeeting cut on Jan. 3 amid growing worries about recession and 
deflation risks. 

     The 75 basis point rate cut, which took the federal funds rate to 
its lowest level since August 2005, was the largest the FOMC has made 
since October 1984 and is proportionately much bigger, since the FOMC at 
that time was cutting from 11.30%. 

     Notwithstanding the magnitude of this morning's easing move, few 
expect it to be the last. The only question in Fed watchers' minds is 
how much further the FOMC will cut the funds rate at the end of two days 
of meetings next Tuesday and Wednesday. Views differ. 

     Only St. Louis Federal Reserve Bank President William Poole 
dissented against the action, preferring to wait until next week. 

     U.S. Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson praised the Fed for 
demonstrating that it is "nimble and able to move quickly" and said the 
outsized easing move "should be a confidence builder." 

     In making a preemptive rate cut of this magnitude before the real 
economy is clearly in recession, the FOMC has temporarily deferred its 
concerns about elevated inflation. Poole, ironically, among other 
officials, had said recently that "contained" inflation expectations 
give the Fed the latitude to ease substantially if needed without much 
inflationary consequences. 

     In announcing the rate cuts, the Fed said the FOMC "took this 
action in view of a weakening of the economic outlook and increasing 
downside risks to growth." 

     "While strains in short-term funding markets have eased somewhat, 
broader financial market conditions have continued to deteriorate and 
credit has tightened further for some businesses and households," the 
statement continued. "Moreover, incoming information indicates a 
deepening of the housing contraction as well as some softening in labor 
markets." 

     The announcement added that "the Committee expects inflation to 
moderate in coming quarters, but it will be necessary to continue to 
monitor inflation developments carefully." 

     In a clear, implied policy bias toward further rate reductions, the 
Fed declared, "appreciable downside risks to growth remain." And it said 
the FOMC "will continue to assess the effects of financial and other 
developments on economic prospects and will act in a timely manner as 
needed to address those risks." 

     Leading up to the Fed action, there had been a series of weaker- 
than-expected economic numbers starting with a surprisingly weak 
December employment report and continuing with a decline in retail sales 
and flat industrial production. 

     But the real proximate cause of the Fed's dramatic rate cuts, 
undoubtedly, was financial, not economic. 

     On Monday, when U.S. markets were closed in observance of Martin 
Luther King day, foreign markets were validating the adage that when the 
United States sneezes, the world catches cold. 

     With recession talk mounting, investors' hopes dimmed for 
profitable exports to the huge U.S. market. Neither Fed Chairman Ben 
Bernanke's interest rate cut signals nor President Bush's proposed $145 
billion fiscal stimulus plan were enough to support stocks around the 
world. 

     Investors worldwide have become increasingly risk averse, both 
because of uncertainty over what new subprime mortgage related losses 
might be revealed in the financial sector and because of fear that 
forthcoming corporate earnings reports will reflect a fall-off of demand 
for companies' goods and services. 

     Starting with a near 4% drop in Japan, the selling wave gained 
momentum as markets opened. Hong Kong's Hang Seng index plunged 5.5%; 
Indian stocks slid 7.4%. In Europe, stocks were down 6.8% in France, 
7.2% in Germany and 5.5% in London. 

     Early Tuesday, U.S. stock futures were down sharply ahead of the 
opening bell, and cash was flooding into safe haven Treasury securities, 
depressing their yields. 

      Bank of America chief economist Mickey Levy said that in acting as 
it did, the FOMC "clearly acknowledged that it was behind the curve in 
easing." And he said the Fed "knows its credibility would be damaged if 
the economy slipped into recession." 

     Levy predicted the Fed "will continue to ease," but said he expects 
only a 25 basis point rate cut at next week's meeting because the Fed 
has already "eased aggressively." 

     "The problem we run into is that the problems facing the economy 
and the financial system are centered around housing and the subprime 
mortgage market," Levy continued. "The Fed can't resolve all of the 
economy's problems." 

     Besides, he added, "the real difficulty we face now is that 
monetary policy works with a lag." So the Fed's rate cuts will not take 
effect for awhile. And yet, he went on, "I've never seen a situation 
where market psychology has spiraled down so far relative to economic 
fundamentals." 

     Others are expecting continued aggressive easing next week. 
 Wachovia senior economist Mark Vitner said a 50 basis point rate cut 
next Wednesday afternoon is apt to be announced. 

     Vitner observed that there is "a disconnect" between the economy 
and financial markets. "The economy doesn't look nearly as sick as the 
financial markets." He noted that weekly jobless claims have been 
falling, for example. 

     Even so, "it has to be 50," Vitner said. "I really don't think you 
do 75 today and then say we can just do 25 next week unless we see a 
total reversal in global stock markets." 

     Vitner said the FOMC needs to "be definitive" and "take the real 
federal funds rate down into negative territory." 

     The Fed's attitude should be: We don't have a recession, but we're 
going to conduct monetary policy as if we have one," said Vitner. 

     Levy, a former colleague of Poole on the monetarist Shadow Open 
Market Committee, said the FOMC need not worry about inflation for the 
time being. 

     "Core inflation is going to decelerate in response to slower 
nominal spending growth and weaker economic activity," Levy projected. 
"Eventually this Fed easing will generate stronger nominal spending 
growth, but only with a lag after that will it generate higher 
inflation." 

     "Eventually some of (the easing) will have to be taken away," said 
Levy, "but inflation is not a problem." 

     In a Jan. 15 article, Market News International reported that "an 
'exceptionally alert' group of Federal Reserve policymakers could 
conceivably act preemptively at almost any time in an effort to provide 
for economic and financial stability, depending on the stimuli." 

[TOPICS: MMUFE$,MT$$$$,MAUDS$,M$U$$$,MI$$$$,M$X$$$,M$A$$$,M$$BR$]   
   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | e1101 : Economic Growth | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBMarket News International, Inc.   ANDocument MARNEW0020080122e41m000by  



 SECOMMENT   HDChoppy waters lie ahead after the Fed's move.    BYBy MOHAMED EL-ERIAN    WC708 words   PD23 January 2008   SNFinancial Times   SCFTFT   EDAsia Ed1   PGPage 9   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPRather than wait for its meeting next week, the US Federal Reserve implemented an emergency cut of 75 basis points yesterday. This took its key interest rate, the federal funds rate, down to 3.5 per cent compared with 5.25 per cent just six months ago. 

Yet what would have been interpreted just a few days ago as a bold policy measure to get ahead of the curve is now seen by some as an insufficient attempt to play catch-up with a rapidly deteriorating situation. 
   TDThe immediate market reaction to the Fed announcement points to continued scepticism as to whether the policymakers fully grasp the severity of the position. The interest rate markets are pricing in more cuts next week and have lowered the rate at which they expect the current interest rate cycle to bottom out. 

Meanwhile, rather than equity market sentiment being turned around decisively by the move, investors now understand better what interest rates and credit markets have been signalling for a while: that the continuing damage to the financial system is being embedded more deeply into the chain of economic relationships, increasing the overall default risk in the economy. 

The recent troubles of the bond insurers serve only to reinforce the image of falling dominos now that the major banks have taken important write-offs. 

As long as this market mentality persists, the fresh capital currently on the sideline will only engage forcefully and sustainably in risk markets if valuations become excessively cheap. 

Meanwhile, the Fed will be restoring liquidity to the parts of the system that are closest to it, accentuating the divergence that we have witnessed recently between a normalising interbank market (highlighted by the moves in the London inter-bank offered rate) and unstable and volatile credit and equity markets. 

In this context, and in the absence of belief that a meaningful fiscal response will accompany the monetary policy loosening, valuations of stocks and other assets rather than corrective government actions will act as the main driving factor in "clearing" markets to enable them to stabilise and function smoothly again. 

Prices will have to get low enough to skew the balance of risk significantly to the advantage of new investors to tempt them in. Otherwise, they will simply wait on the sidelines. 

Recent developments will also accentuate the divergence between transparent segments of the markets and structured finance, where there are still fundamental concerns about methods of valuation. Liquidity and cash will remain king. 

Can other countries "decouple" from the problems of the US? Here, it is important to distinguish between market valuations and economic trends. An increase in the overall level of risk aversion around the world makes it hard for markets to decouple. Economic decoupling is a greater possibility, supported by underlying productivity trends and the larger degree of policy flexibility in some other key countries. 

All this points to a particularly choppy time for markets. In running their portfolios, investors will have to factor in sharp changes in relative valuations between asset classes and need to manage cash carefully. Risk mitigation trades, implemented during the complacent market era that ended last summer, will prove particularly effective. 

Over the longer term, markets will be dealing with a tricky issue of timing: how to reconcile the effects of delayed policy responses with what will eventually be a turn upwards in valuation as fresh capital is invested. 

It is to be hoped, before this happens, that we will see meaningful progress in addressing an important issue that lies at the heart of both the era of excessive complacency and the subsequent period of major correction: it is time for the market and policy infrastructure to catch up with the new activities that have been enabled by the realignment of global economic power and the technical innovations in the financial industry. 

The longer such progress is delayed, the greater the probability of further damage as a result of the consequences of lax risk management and less potent policy instruments. 

The writer is co-chief executive and co-chief investment officer of Pimco. He was previously president and chief executive officer of Harvard Management Company
   RF20080123A109.201   INi81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | i814 : Banking   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1101 : Economic Growth | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | gdip : International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | nedc : Commentary/Opinion | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTFT000020080123e41n0000t  



 SEMARKETS &INVESTING   HDPrice of gold rallies amid other gains.    BYBy JAVIER BLAS    WC580 words   PD23 January 2008   SNFinancial Times   SCFTFT   EDAsia Ed1   PGPage 22   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPGold prices rallied and other commodities posted small gains after the US Federal Reserve cut interest rates in an effort to prop up the weakening US economy. 

Spot bullion in London jumped to Dollars 894.3 a troy ounce as the US dollar weakened against the euro after the Fed cut its main interest rate by a hefty 75 basis points to 3.5 per cent and said it was ready to take further action. 
   TDAnita Soni of Credit Suisse said: "Upward pressure on the price of gold is likely being driven by weakness of the US dollar fuelled by US rate cuts." 

Before the central bank's action, gold prices had tumbled to a three-week low of Dollars 849.50 an ounce as traders took profits from the recent rally in precious metals. 

Earlier this month, gold prices hit an all-time high of Dollars 914 an ounce. 

Yesterday's price jump was also boosted by positive comments from investment banks Morgan Stanley and Credit Suisse which raised their forecasts for average gold prices in 2008 to Dollars 950 an ounce and above Dollars 1,000 an ounce in 2009. 

Barclays Capital reiterated its positive view towards the metal, forecasting a test of the Dollars 1,000 an ounce before the summer. 

Suki Cooper, a precious metals analyst at Barclays Capital in London, said: "A significant number of positive external drivers such as a weak dollar, inflation concerns and slower US growth are set to support prices" 

UBS, on the other hand, remained cautious and reiterated its one-month target of Dollars 850 an ounce for gold on the weakness of physical jewellery demand. 

Other analysts also continue to be guarded as exchange-traded funds, the biggest driver of investment gold demand in recent years, last week suffered surprisingly large outflows. 

Other commodity prices pared losses or moved to positive territory after heavy falls earlier yesterday triggered by fears that the US economic slowdown could spread to emerging economies such as China and India, the main engines of fresh demand for raw materials. 

But traders remained cautious and warned that base metals and energy commodities could come under further pressure as soon as the interest rate cut euphoria fades away. 

Opec offered the starkest warning of the dangers lying ahead, saying in its monthly report: "With mounting evidence of a slowdown in US economic growth . . . fears of a downright recession have multiplied." 

Sales of commodities, particularly of agricultural raw materials, aimed at raising funds - to offset losses in others markets - also contributed to the price fall in early morning, traders said. 

Robert Laughlin of MF Global in London said that the immediate risk for commodities was "a liquidation of open positions by some market participants in order to finance positions on other markets." 

Crude oil prices rose on the day, reversing a fall to the lowest level in six weeks before the Fed's interest rate cut. 

In late trading in London, ICE March Brent rose 29 cents to Dollars 87.76 a barrel. Earlier, it fell to a low of Dollars 85.00 a barrel. In New York, Nymex February WestTexas Intermediate moved to Dollars 89.23 a barrel, a drop of Dollars 1.12 from Friday's close. 

On the London Metal Exchange base metals recovered from early losses. Copper rose 1.9 per cent to Dollars 7,010 per tonne.  
   RF20080123A122.206   INi81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | i814 : Banking   NSm142 : Metals Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | c33 : Contracts/Orders | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | mpcsmt : Precious Metals Markets | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | m14 : Commodity Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTFT000020080123e41n0001c  



 SEGLOBAL MARKETS TURMOIL   HDTreasury yields fall on Fed cuts.    BYBy JOANNA CHUNG and MICHAEL MACKENZIE    WC362 words   PD23 January 2008   SNFinancial Times   SCFTFT   EDEurope Ed1   PGPage 27   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPUS Treasury yields fell sharply on expectations that the US Federal Reserve would follow yesterday's unusual 75 basis point interest rate cut with further easing next week. 

The sharp falls in equity markets around the world - and declines in US markets even after the Fed's move - meant investors were continuing to prize the safety of government debt amid worries of a US recession. 
   TDThe Fed cut its overnight rate to 3.50 per cent before markets reopened yesterday. It was its first inter-meeting cut since September 2001 and the biggest inter-meeting move in history. 

Government bond markets in the US and Europe have made sharp gains since last August, when credit and mortgage concerns alerted investors that the US economy was facing a tough 2008. 

The Fed holds its official January meeting next week, and in a statement yesterday said that "appreciable downside risks to growth remain," which bond traders believe keeps the door open for more cuts. Yesterday, interest rate futures priced in at least another 25bp and possibly a 50bp ease. 

"Since the Fed will not have enough time to see the impact on the real economy of this 75 bp of stimulus, it will only have a chance to take a look at the response of the market, potentially easing more if the market demands it, which we think it will," said Ian Lyngen, bond strategist at RBS Greenwich Capital. 

The yield on the interest-rate sensitive two-year US Treasury note was at 2.11 per cent yesterday and had reached a low of 1.99 per cent, its lowest level since April 2004. In July, the note yielded about 5 per cent. It began the year at 3.06 per cent, well below the prevailing Fed funds rate. 

But any sign of equities stabilising will likely push yields back up. Charles Diebel, fixed income strategist at Nomura, said: "There can be little doubt that bonds are well over-extended here . . . However, for the moment this is a fear-driven market rather than a value- driven one."  
   RF20080123E127.072   INi81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | i814 : Banking   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e212 : Government Borrowing | ecat : Economic News | gpol : Domestic Politics | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e21 : Government Finance | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTFT000020080123e41n00021  



 SELEX COLUMN   HDSlash and Bernanke.    WC336 words   PD23 January 2008   SNFinancial Times   SCFTFT   EDLondon Ed2   PGPage 18   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPBen Bernanke had a holiday weekend to watch the meltdown in global equity markets and to panic about how the storm would hit the US. Rather than wait, the Federal Reserve chairman acted pre-emptively, bringing forward the aggressive 75 basis point interest rate cut that would otherwise have arrived next week. 

The biggest inter-meeting rate cut in Fed history served as a circuit breaker against the threat of a vicious cycle down in the markets. For now. 
   TDOver time, sharply lower rates will help the US economy. A steeper yield curve should feed through into better bank profits over time and allow them to rebuild capital. More immediately, lower rates will help reduce the payment shock from mortgage resets and bolster confidence in general. 

But the shock cut is no solution in itself. US house prices still need to fall further. Credit markets must continue working off the huge excesses of recent years. Both will take time. Meanwhile, the second round effects - weaker consumer spending and rising bad debts for the banking sector - are only just starting to show through. And equity investors seem to have woken up only belatedly to the fact that profits could fall materially. 

Just as the Fed struggled to make its interest rate rises felt between 2003 and 2006, as financial institutions got looser and more creative with their lending, it will struggle to ensure aggressive cuts are transmitted through to corporate and consumer borrowers as lenders draw in their horns. Interest rate cuts have their biggest impact with a lag of about a year. In this case financial institutions are already battered and bruised by the credit market meltdown. Lending is likely to continue being curtailed, even as rates fall. 

Given the wave of bad economic and market data, the Fed will probably slash rates by another half point next week. But it has now fired its big cannon. As the Fed's armoury becomes depleted, the financial instability will continue.  
   RF20080123L218.481   INi81501 : Credit Types/Services | i81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | i814 : Banking   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1101 : Economic Growth | ecat : Economic News | nedc : Commentary/Opinion | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTFT000020080123e41n0004n  



 HDBank of Canada lowers key  interest rate  by 25 bps to 4.0%      WC363 words   PD22 January 2008   ET15:09   SNMarket News International   SCMARNEW   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008. Market News International, Inc.   
   TD
--- As U.S. Federal reserve cuts by 75 bps, BoC sticks with -0.25% but 
says further cut likely "in the near term"

By Courtney Tower

     OTTAWA (MNI)- In the face of plunging world financial markets and 
while the U.S. Federal reserve in an unscheduled move slashed its key
rate by 75 basis points, the  Bank of Canada today cut its policy rate 
by a third of that, 25 basis points, to 4.0%.

    The Bank rejected several current financial economists' calls for 
a 50 basis points reduction, given the deteriorating world conditions,
but signalled another cut shortly, on or before the next scheduled rate
setting March 4.

     In its scheduled statement, lowering the rate to 4.0% from the 4.25 
set in December, the Bank said that in line with a deteriorated 
outlook "further monetary stimulus is likely to be required in the near 
term to keep aggregate supply and demand in balance and to return 
inflation to target over the medium term."

     Core and total inflation, at 1.7% and 2.7% at the latest reading, 
are both expected to fall below 1.5% by mid-2008 before returning to the 
2% target by the end of 2009, the Bank said.

     The 2008 outlook for the United States economy is "significantly 
weaker" than the  +2.1% growth the Bank had expected for the U.S. last 
October, the Bank said. The U.S. picture had been dragged down by 
deteriorated financial market conditions, tighter credit in industrial 
countries, "and a deeper, more prolonged decline in the U.S. 
residential housing sector."

     The weaker U.S. outlook "will lead to additional downward pressure 
on export growth" for Canada, the Bank said.
     
     "However, despite tighter credit conditions, domestic demand in 
Canada is projected to remain strong." This strength would be supported 
"by continued income growth associated with the increase in commodity 
prices....."

     "Overall, the Bank now projects weaker growth in 2008 than was 
expected in October, with the economy moving into modest excess supply 
in the second quarter of this year," the Bank said.

[TOPICS: M$C$$$]   
   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REcana : Canada | usa : United States | namz : North America   PUBMarket News International, Inc.   ANDocument MARNEW0020080122e41m000ah  



 SEWORLD NEWS - EMERGENCY RATE CUT   HDPressure on ECB to soften tough line.    BYBy RALPH ATKINS    WC589 words   PD23 January 2008   SNFinancial Times   SCFTFT   EDAsia Ed1   PGPage 2   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPThe steep cut in US interest rates intensified the pressure on the European Central Bank to soften its hardline stance and pave the way for eurozone borrowing costs to fall as well. 

The ECB dislikes any suggestion of being pushed around by financial markets or politicians. But it is aware that the economic outlook for the 15-country eurozone could change in the light of US events and that its reaction might have a direct impact on market nerves. 
   TDFinancial markets yesterday fully priced in a quarter percentage point cut in ECB rates to 3.75 per cent by May. "The pressure for a careful and timely recalibration of their rhetoric has clearly increased," said Marco Annunziata, chief economist of Unicredit.

The ECB's focus, in public at least, will remain on inflation - which at 3.1 per cent remains far beyond its target range of an annual rate "below but close" to 2 per cent. But ECB president Jean-Claude Trichet's warning less than two weeks ago - when he said "pre-emptive" interest rate rises were possible to head off inflationary threats posed by high wage settlements - appears overtaken by events. 

If nothing else, the ECB could argue that the heightened economic gloom and financial turmoil will help curb wage demands. 

Amid signs of differing opinion among the members of the ECB's 21-strong governing council, the central bank's message had started to moderate even before yesterday's Federal Reserve move, with several making clear that eurozone growth forecasts were rapidly becoming over-optimistic. 

While the eurozone has not seen a general housing market collapse and has largely escaped direct macroeconomic consequences of the credit squeeze, the threat of a US recession is a serious concern. Tumbling equity prices, if sustained, would add to the risks to the real economy by threatening business confidence, for instance, even if the impact would not be as great as in the US or UK. 

In judging the impact on inflation, the ECB will want to avoid drawing hasty conclusions. Some in Frankfurt might fear the Fed overreacted yesterday. For now, eurozone economic fundamentals remain sound in the ECB's view, especially with unemployment falling - unlike in the US. Jurgen Stark, ECB executive board member responsible for economic analysis, warned against "angst and panic" in an interview with Die Zeit, the German newspaper, released last night, adding that eurozone growth could remain in line with its long-term trend. 

What is likely to be crucial is the extent of the US slowdown. If it can notch up positive growth, albeit it at a significantly slower pace, the idea the eurozone could grow this year at a rate approaching 2 per cent (after 2.6 per cent in 2007) would not seem outlandish. But a full-blown US recession, coupled with sustained financial market turmoil, would drag eurozone growth lower. 

Ken Wattret of BNP Paribas said that in early 2001 the ECB had also taken a relatively optimistic stance on the eurozone's ability to shake off problems from across the Atlantic. "In the end, the spillover from the recession in the US, problems in equity markets and the recognition that the eurozone economy was in trouble saw the ECB capitulate, despite uncomfortable inflation and a low euro exchange rate." 

In May 2001 the ECB cut its main interest rate by a quarter point, initiating an easing cycle not reversed until December 2005.  
   RF20080123A102.156   INi81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | i814 : Banking   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | c152 : Earnings Projections | e52 : Euro Zone/Currency | ecat : Economic News | ecbnk : European Central Bank | eec : European Union | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTFT000020080123e41n00008  



 HDECB Constancio: US Slowdown Or Recession Will Hit Europe      WC226 words   PD22 January 2008   ET14:48   SNMarket News International   SCMARNEW   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008. Market News International, Inc.   
   TD

     LISBON (MNI) - The chances of a recession in the US have risen and 
it will have an impact on the European economy, European Central Bank 
Governing Council member Vitor Constancio said Tuesday. 

     "The probability has risen without doubt. It doesn't mean it will 
happen, but the probability has risen, which means that the slowdown in 
the US will be sharper than predicted," Constancio told reporters after 
a closed conference here. 

     "And this will have consequences also for the European economy," he 
said. 

     Constancio's comments came just moments before the US Federal 
Reserve announced a surprise inter-meeting interest rate cut of 75 basis 
points, citing the darkening domestic economic outlook. 

     Constancio said eurozone growth this year would be lower, though he 
wouldn't say how much lower. "It's early to make a revision, but it is 
evident that the risk that growth will be a bit lower, just a little 
lower, has risen," he said. 

     Constancio also said there is no pre-determined path for ECB 
interest rate moves. "What we will do depends really on the information 
in real time that we analyze at our monthly meetings," he said. "There 
is no pre-announcement trajectory for interest rates by the ECB and the 
Governing Council." 

[TOPICS: MT$$$$,M$X$$$,M$$EC$,M$I$$$]   
   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecbnk : European Central Bank | ecat : Economic News | eec : European Union | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations   REeecz : European Union Countries | usa : United States | eurz : Europe | namz : North America   PUBMarket News International, Inc.   ANDocument MARNEW0020080122e41m0009z  



 HDECB Update: Fed Cut Ups Pressure;Unclear How Long ECB To Wait      WC1,347 words   PD22 January 2008   ET18:26   SNMarket News International   SCMARNEW   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008. Market News International, Inc.   
   TD
-- Regular Brief Analysis Of News And Events Pertinent To ECB Policy
-- See "ECB State Of Play" For Full Analysis Of ECB Policy Direction

     FRANKFURT, Jan. 22 (MNI) - Tuesday's massive 75 basis point 
interest rate cut by the US Federal Reserve in the face of a global 
stock market meltdown will increase pressure on the European Central 
Bank to jettison its tightening bias and consider the need for cutting 
its own rates in response to intensifying threats to economic growth. 

     It is unclear how long the ECB can resist that pressure or how 
difficult it might be for the Governing Council to achieve a quick 
consensus on the possible need to shift its monetary policy into 
reverse. Some Council members apparently still see very little urgency, 
judging by their comments this week on inflation risks and economic 
growth near potential. 

     It is likely the ECB will be content for now to let the Fed do the 
heavy lifting - as it should do in response to a homegrown problem. If 
confidence is shored up enough for markets to gain a foothold, it's 
possible the ECB would refrain from action while slowly altering its 
rhetoric to signal a shift to a neutral bias -- and possibly beyond 
neutral. 

     Arguing against a near-term rate cut is the ECB's deeply rooted 
mistrust of dramatic policy actions aimed at fine-tuning the economy. 
The Bundesbank's old "steady hand" approach is still the guiding ethos 
at the ECB. 

     On a more complicated note, the ECB might face a credibility 
problem that could take some time to resolve. If it continues to talk 
tough on inflation in the face of crumbling growth prospects, it could 
risk being perceived as blind to the threats facing the real economy and 
in danger of falling behind the curve. 

     The problem would not completely disappear even if the ECB did 
shift gears swiftly in response to a deteriorating economic and 
financial environment. Having virtually painting itself into a corner 
with its harsh inflation rhetoric, the ECB would then face unflattering 
questions after the fact about its prior reading of reality. 

     If push came to shove, however, any concerns it might have about 
projecting a credible and authoritative image would nonetheless not 
prevent the ECB from responding appropriately -- especially if it were 
convinced that a greater than expected slowdown would likely reduce 
inflation dangers. 

     The ECB would probably be quite happy not to have to react to a 
market meltdown at this point, as this would give it time to gradually 
shift its policy stance and thus keep unpleasant questions to a minimum. 

     That shift has already started, and the ECB has indicated that it 
is increasingly aware of the risk that the eurozone slowdown will be 
more pronounced than it had anticipated. It has also watered down its 
assertions that Europe is relatively insulated from U.S. economic 
developments, and the latest equity market upheaval should make it even 
more alert to the risks involved. 

     That said, the ECB will want to wait for more evidence that the 
real economy in Europe could be hit hard by the financial disruptions 
amid signs of slowing demand in other parts of the world. 

     It may still take some exceptionally bad eurozone economic data to 
dislodge the ECB from its position of "very close" monitoring. And if 
markets do stabilize from here on, that will reaffirm the view of some 
Council members that the situation is not dramatic. 

     If, however, equity markets and confidence in general continue to 
spiral downward, the ECB could be forced to cut rates more quickly than 
the markets have been expecting, its inflation worries notwithstanding. 
Europe's economic fundamentals may be sturdier than those of the U.S. at 
the moment, but they could quickly become shaky if spillover effects are 
protracted or intensify. 

     Barring a severe jolt to the economy, it is hard to see the ECB 
communicating a major shift in its policy stance before the next staff 
projections are published in early March. 

     A major downward revision to the projections for economic growth -- 
which would tend to lower those for inflation as well -- could be the 
trigger for a move to neutral or possibly even to an easing bias. 
Conceivably, this could open the way to an ECB rate cut as soon as Q2. 

-- 

     FRANKFURT, Jan. 21 (MNI) - The weekend brought more evidence of a 
shift in ECB thinking towards the view that hiking interest rates is no 
longer realistic in the face of weakening economic growth, heightened 
uncertainty and expectations that inflation will recede. 

     Comments last week by ECB Governing Council member Yves Mersch on 
mounting risks to activity with possible dampening effects on inflation 
got the ball rolling. The financial markets may have gone overboard in 
their initial conclusion that Mersch was signalling a near-term rate 
cut, and that assessment has since been gently dispelled by the central 
bank. 

     However, the view is increasingly taking hold that the ECB won't 
hike rates again and that it is only a matter of time before its 
tightening bias is cast aside. In fact, financial markets are now fully 
pricing in an ECB rate cut by July.   

     Two more Council members, one a putative policy hawk, the other a 
nominal dove, made the latest remarks to bolster the growing impression 
in the markets that the next ECB adjustment will be a rate cut, even if 
the move may still be some time away. 

     Nout Wellink, the Dutch central banker seen as one of the Council's 
more influential hawks, said in an interview that economic growth in the 
eurozone this year will likely fall short of what the ECB expects. 

     Wellink noted that the latest Eurosystem staff projections call for 
GDP growth this year of between 1.5% and 2.5%. The ECB has repeatedly 
said that it expects growth to remain close to trend potential near 2%. 

     "But the world is not so exactly predictable," Wellink said. "I 
think it [2008 growth] will sooner wind up at 1.5% than 2.5%." 

     Wellink attributed the slowdown to the "crisis of confidence" 
caused by the fallout from U.S. subprime mortgage crisis. He also poured 
cold water on the idea that Europe can de-couple from U.S. developments. 

     In a separate interview, Guy Quaden of Belgium, considered a dove, 
played down worries about inflation, stressing that the current spike is 
apt to be a temporary phenomenon and should not be overstated. 

     According to Quaden, the inflation surge should be "temporary" and 
a "hump rather than a move towards a new [higher] level." Inflation 
should abate in the second half and return to levels below 2% in 2009, 
he said. 

     While the ECB is "certainly not satisfied" with elevated price 
pressures, "we should not dramatize this affair," Quaden added. He went 
on to say that the ECB does not react mechanically to current inflation 
rates and must focus on the medium-term outlook -- yet another hint that 
an inflation rate above 3% at present need not prompt an interest rate 
hike. 

     Importantly, however, Quaden did not give an all-clear on price 
risks, pointing to Germany's upcoming wage round. If the moderation of 
past years "disappears, then the ECB obviously has a problem," he 
warned. He added that the central bank has "no certainties" that its 
baseline scenario of inflation falling below 2% next year will be borne 
out. 

     As long as this remains the case, markets can continue to expect 
occasional tough talk from the ECB on the risk of second-round inflation 
effects and promises of action should they emerge. However, it has 
become less likely that those threats would be acted on. 

     The ECB is in the process of downgrading its policy position. As 
with any process, it may take some time before the ECB communicates that 
it has moved to "neutral," let alone to an easing bias. 

--Frankfurt bureau, 00-49-69-720-142; Email: christian@marketnews.com 

[TOPICS: M$$EC$]   
   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | e1101 : Economic Growth | ecbnk : European Central Bank | ecat : Economic News | eec : European Union | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations   REeecz : European Union Countries | usa : United States | gfr : Germany | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe   PUBMarket News International, Inc.   ANDocument MARNEW0020080122e41m000d9  



 HDMORTGAGES/AGENCIES-Robust Fed rate cut buoys mortgage bonds   WC573 words   PD22 January 2008   ET22:13   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited   
   LPBy Julie Haviv

NEW YORK, Jan 22 (Reuters ) - U.S. mortgage-backed securities outperformed rallying Treasuries on Tuesday as an unexpected and aggressive interest rate cut from the Federal Reserve brought buyers to the market.
   TDThe Federal Reserve conducted its biggest interest rate cut in over two decades, slashing its key federal funds target rate by three-quarters of a percentage point to 3.50 percent, the lowest level since September 2005.

The U.S. central bank's action was intended to ease market worries about dramatic losses the day before in global equity markets linked to fears of a spreading U.S. recession and tight credit.

U.S. Treasuries surged after the emergency rate cut but had limited success in staunching a sell-off in stocks.

For most MBS market participants, the action by the Federal Reserve was welcome news.

"The yield curve steepened sharply today, which is typically good for mortgage bonds because it boosts the bid for CMOs and improves funding levels," said an MBS trader on Wall Street.

"Convexity buying is also playing a big role today, mainly from servicers, and that is mostly benefiting lower coupons," he said.

The yield premium on Fannie Mae MBS paying 5.00 percent interest versus the benchmark 10-year Treasury note <US10YT=RR> narrowed to 1.37 percentage points on Tuesday from 1.421 points on Friday, according to Reuters data.

Active 15- and 30-year mortgage securities were 8/32 to 28/32 higher. Bond equivalent yields on 30-year 5.50 percent coupon MBS ranged from 4.779 percent to 4.840 percent.

Prices on 30-year 6 percent coupons were 11/32 higher. Bond equivalent yields ranged from 4.550 to 4.590 percent.

The steeper yield curve could increase bank demand for MBS and boost the new issue collateralized mortgage obligation market, both of which benefit mortgage bonds.

Collateralized mortgage obligations, or CMOs, are structured with mortgage-backed securities and tailored to meet specific requirements of investors.

A steeper yield curve is good for banks as they borrow short-term debt and lend long-term debt.

Agency debt securities mostly moved in sympathy with interest rate swap spreads, a proxy for investor risk appetite.

Fannie Mae 5.375 percent 10-year benchmark notes due June 12, 2017, were 1 basis point tighter at 55 basis points bid and 53 basis points offered over Treasuries.

U.S. 10-year Treasury notes were 1-10/32 higher at 106-1/32 to yield 3.481 percent. Yields, which move inversely to price, were down from Friday's 3.632 percent.

When rates head lower, participants in the mortgage market, particularly servicers, usually need to hedge by buying Treasuries, receiving in swaps or by adding MBS. This trade, called convexity hedging, could pick up if rates continue to fall.

A refinancing wave is very much a concern among MBS market participants right now.

Treasury yields, which are linked to mortgage rates, have plunged in recent weeks, which is already spurring a sharp increase in refinancing activity. This should cause prepayment speeds to surge higher over the coming months.

Prepayment speeds are key factors to determine the value of mortgage bonds. If prepayments rise or fall too quickly, they hurt the returns on mortgage securities. (Editing by James Dalgleish) 
   RFMARKETS-MORTGAGES/AGENCIES|LANGEN|Table|ABN|M|D|E|RBN|U   NSe1122 : Mortgage Applications/Refinancing | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | e1202 : Interest Rates | cmabs : Mortgage Backed Securities | emort : Mortgage Rate | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | c17 : Funding/Capital | c172 : Corporate Debt Instruments | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCDBT | GVD | DRV | MTG | AGN | FIN | AGN/ | MTG/ | EMBG:DBT | embargokeyE1   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020080125e41m00266  



 HDTop Stories in the US, Europe and Asia Tuesday, Jan 22      WC1,459 words   PD22 January 2008   ET22:46   SNMarket News International   SCMARNEW   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008. Market News International, Inc.   
   TD

*    Treasuries rallied Tuesday: On a 1:00 p.m. Friday to 3:00 pm ET 
Tuesday basis close, the cash 2-year note yield declined 28.3 bps to 
2.059%. The 5-year yield fell 22.7 bps to 2.623%. The 10-year yield fell 
16.6 bps to 3.483%, and the 30-year yield fell 7.1 bps to to 4.228%. The 
2-year/5-year curve steepened 5.6 bps to +56.4 bps, the 2-year/10-year 
also steepened 11.7 bps to +142.4 bps, and the 2-year/30-year steepened 
21.2 bps to +216.9 bps. 

*    The dollar was holding a mixed tone at the end of a tumultuous 
trading day Tuesday, nursing steep losses vs. the euro but holding 
slight gains vs. the yen as the greenback was undermined by a surprise, 
steep cut in official U.S. interest rates. Euro-dollar was trading at 
$1.4615 late in the Tuesday session, up from the $1.4500 level that 
marked the start of U.S. trading Tuesday. On the day, the euro traversed 
a broad $1.4485/1.4645 range. Dollar-yen meantime was trading at Y106.42 
in afternoon trading, up slightly from the Y106.12 marked at the start 
of the day and about the middle of the Y106.05/107.05 U.S. hours range. 

*    US Stocks: The Dow Jones Industrial Average closed down 1.06% at 
11,971 and the Nasdaq Composite down 2.04% at 2,292. 

*    In the wake of a global market collapse that portended further 
heavy losses of equity wealth in the United States, the Federal Reserve 
chose to act immediately and aggressively before U.S. markets opened 
Tuesday morning to protect the economy, rather than wait for next week's 
regularly scheduled Federal Open Market Committee meeting. The Fed set 
aside its inflation concerns for the time being and slashed the 
short-term rates it controls by three quarters of a percentage point. 
More easing seems sure to come -- and soon. 

*    U.S. Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson Tuesday morning reaffirmed 
that the primary focus of his department is to get through the current 
period of financial and housing market upheaval with "as little impact 
on our economy as possible." In a question and answer session during the 
U.S. Chamber of Commerce's Policy Insider series, Paulson said his 
department is working quite proactively on what "policy measures should 
be taken," in conjunction with the president's working group on the 
financial markets. 

*    Some 13 of the chief economists at the 20 primary dealerships 
Tuesday said they still expect a 50 bps ease in the Fed funds target to 
3.00% on January 30 despite the early morning 75 bps intermeeting cut by 
the monetary policy authority. According to a Market News International 
survey taken after the surprise rate cut announcement, some 3 expect a 
more mild 25 bps cut next week. Yet, two called for steady policy at the 
end of the month. Two dealers were yet to respond, including  Merrill 
Lynch and  Citigroup. 

*    Congressional Budget Office director Peter Orszag will present 
the CBO's updated budget and economic report this week to the House and 
Senate Budget Committees and the report, perhaps  more than any other in 
recent CBO history, will be taken with a huge grain of salt, budget 
experts say. 

*    The director of the federal regulator for Fannie Mae and  Freddie 
Mac Tuesday said the Federal Reserve's surprise slash in short-term 
rates by three-quarters of a percentage point will help the 
deteriorating U.S. housing market. 

*    Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac could report wider losses than 
expected in the fourth quarter, possibly up to $16 billion combined in 
write-downs, as the subprime mortgage market deteriorates further and 
erodes their portfolio holdings, according to analysts at  Credit Suisse. 

*    January is looking no better than December in more bad news for 
U.S. retailers which are preparing themselves for a year of flat 
results, according to Market News International's weekly industry survey 
released Tuesday. MNI's rolling retail-trade diffusion index edged 
seven-tenths higher to 35.1 in the four-week period ended Jan. 19, 
remaining well below 50, the breakeven level for the index and 
reflecting wide pessimism in the sector. 

*    The fourth-quarter earning season has opened with strength in the 
U.S. capital goods producers which are reporting healthy and improving 
rates of growth, as Market News International's weekly capital goods 
index released Tuesday jumped more than five points to 60.2 in the 
four-week period ended Jan. 18, well over the 50 level to indicate wide 
optimism. Total sales growth is probably on the high side at 8.3%, with 
the four-week average offering a better reading at 5.1%. 

*    In the face of plunging world financial markets and while the 
U.S. Federal reserve in an unscheduled move slashed its key rate by 75 
basis points, the  Bank of Canada today cut its policy rate by a third of 
that, 25 basis points, to 4.0%. 

Europe

*    [ECB Paramo: Price Risks On Upside; Must Avoid 2nd Rd Effects] 
Price risks in the eurozone are skewed to the upside, and it is 
particularly important that wage and price setters avoid unleashing 
second round inflation effects, European Central Bank Executive Board 
member Jose Manuel Gonzalez-Paramo said in a newspaper interview 
published Tuesday. In this context, Gonzalez-Paramo told the Portuguese 
business daily Diario Economico, the ECB is prepared to take preventive 
action if necessary to ensure price stability. 

*    [ECB Constancio: Europe Not Immune To What Happens In US Econ.] The
United States economy appears headed for a "severe" slowdown or a 
recession, and it is bound to affect Europe, which is not immune to 
economic developments across the Atlantic, European Central Bank 
Governing Council member Vitor Constancio said today. Constancio, 
speaking to reporters outside a conference here, noted the recent 
turbulence in world stock market and said investors appear to be 
perceiving a change in fundamentals. He made clear that the ECB will not 
respond to the latest round of turmoil with monetary policy. 

*    [CBI Ind Trends: Jan Orders Steady; Pricing Plans Up] Demand 
for UK manufactured goods remained firm in January, confounding 
pessimistic expectations, according to the latest survey by business 
body the CBI. The total orders balance was unchanged at 2% in January 
compared with December, with the sector apparently untouched by the 
economic slowdown. Pricing intentions remained elevated with the balance 
of manufacturers expecting to raise prices climbing back to 21% from 
15%. 

*    [CBI Lambert: 25 bps BOE Rate Cut Justified; Larger Cut Risky] 
The Bank of England's Monetary Policy Committee could justify a 25 basis 
point interest rate reduction but a larger cut would risk its 
credibility, former MPC member and now Director General of the CBI, 
Richard Lambert, said Tuesday. Lambert told reporters that a "steeper" 
cut than 25 basis points would take risks with the credibility and 
reputation of the Monetary Policy Committee.

*    [Germany EcoMin: No Reason To Cut 2008 GDP F'cast Below +1.7%] 
German Economics Minister Michael Glos said Tuesday there is no need to 
cut the government's GDP growth forecast for this year by more than 0.3 
percentage point from the current 2.0% projection. Glos was asked by 
reporters if the planned downward revision of the 2008 growth forecast 
to 1.7% was not overly optimistic in view of this week's stock market 
crash. "There's no need to change [our growth revision again]," the 
minister replied.

Asia

*    [BOJ Sees Slower Japan Growth, Cycle Intact] The Bank of Japan on 
Tuesday said in an update to its semi-annual Outlook that the mechanism 
to transfer high corporate profits to consumer spending is still intact 
despite a slower pace of economic growth.

*    [Japan Supermarket Sales Lower]  Sales at supermarkets in Japan 
open for at least one year fell 1.8% in December from a year earlier to 
Y1.39 trillion, down for the 24th consecutive month, an industry group 
said Tuesday. The fall compares with a 0.4% year-on-year slide in 
November.

*    [Ota: No Need For Stock Market Intervention] The Japanese 
government sees no need for now to intervene to halt a route on stock 
markets as the turmoil is stemming from the US, said Hiroko Ota, the 
minister for economic and fiscal policy. "Stock markets across the world 
are falling and it basically stems from the United States," Ota told 
reporters. "It is difficult at the moment to mull action by Japan alone. 
Instead, we should cooperate globally," she said.   
   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | nsum : News Digest | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | niwe : IWE Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBMarket News International, Inc.   ANDocument MARNEW0020080123e41m0001e  



 HDANALYSIS-Fed cut gives US stock bulls last best hope for bottom      BYBy Ellis Mnyandu and Burton Frierson      WC997 words   PD22 January 2008   ET22:31   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited   
   LPNEW YORK, Jan 22 (Reuters) - The U.S. Federal Reserve's emergency interest rate cut on Tuesday could be the last and best hope for stockmarket bulls on Wall Street, after the worst start to a year on record.   

But the surprise rate cut could also bring an end to the huge rally in U.S. bonds.   
   TDAfter tumbles in stock markets across Asia and Europe on Monday when U.S. markets were closed for a holiday, Wall Street stocks looked headed for a plunge on Tuesday, but the Fed's surprise rate cut staunched the worst of the bleeding and raised hopes that U.S. selling may be overdone.   

Before the rate cut announcement U.S. Treasuries prices had soared, sending yields to their lowest in four years as investors dumped riskier assets, before giving back some of the price gains.   

"The downside risk from the lows of today are minimal as we build the base," said Marc Pado, market strategist and technical analyst at  Cantor Fitzgerald & Co. in San Francisco.   

"You've met the conditions for a selling climax and now you're getting a reversal. Compared to the damage that we've seen overseas, we're only down a fraction."   

Analysts who study stock prices and volume statistically said the stock market appeared to have now seen that cathartic selling that could help it build a base from its "oversold" condition.   

The Dow Jones industrial average was down more than 3.5 percent below the 12,000 level on opening Tuesday, before ending down only 1.02 percent at 11,975.42.   

Similarly, the benchmark S&P500 index fell 3.78 percent before recovering to end down only 1.1 percent at 1,310.62.   

And the Nasdaq slumped 4.40 percent before bouncing to end down 2.04 percent at 2,292.27.   

Even so, there is still a potential for more downside in stock prices and bond yields that could test investors' faith, analysts said.   

At Tuesday's open the Dow broke below the 12,000 level after it broke through support levels around 12,500 last week.   

According to the chartists, the 11,500-11,600 levels on the Dow are not out of question for the Dow if the market were to fall further.   

For the S&P 500 index, they said further downside could see the benchmark index finding support in the 1,220-1,200 range.   

According to Pado at  Cantor Fitzgerald, the S&P 500 drop to an intra-session low of 1,274.29 possibly marks a decisive level from which the broader market could mount a rebound, albeit gradually.   

"Why you see the market coming back is the fact that the market realizes we've had climactic selling. The Fed is on our side and so is the administration and the global central banks," he said.   

The Nasdaq briefly crossed into bear market threshold earlier on Tuesday, dropping more than 20 percent from its 52-week closing high of Oct 31, but the near-term picture had been helped by the Fed's inter-meeting rate cut, analysts said.   

"Investors have thrown in the towel and I think that really marks the end of the selling for now. I believe that we're very close to a bounce, but I don't think that necessarily will mark an ultimate low," said Bruce Zaro, chief technical strategist at Delta Global Advisors Inc in Plymouth, Massachusetts.   

BUOYANT BONDS   

In debt markets, there is a only little more room for bond prices to move higher, even though the Federal Reserve has stepped up the pace of its monetary easing campaign, analysts said.   

Bond prices generally benefit from Fed interest rate cuts but they often factor in such monetary policy easing well in advance, as has been the case with the run-up in Treasuries prices over the last seven months.   

Much of the recent bond market rally also has been a reaction to the deterioration in the stock market. This flight to "quality" left two-year yields well below the central bank's benchmark overnight federal funds rate.   

"Right now Treasuries are basically an anti-stocks trade," said Jack Adkins, director of quantitative research at Action Economics in Denver. "I think there is one more downleg in stocks, one more push lower in yields for Treasuries and then they both reverse."   

Two-year notes <US2YT=RR> were last yielding 2.07 percent. Earlier, yields fell as far as 1.99 percent, their lowest since early 2004.   

Adkins said two-year yields, the most sensitive to views on Fed policy, could make a run at 1.80 percent and may bottom out at 1.75 percent, based on an analysis of short-term intra day patterns and general market retracement tendencies.   

Benchmark 10-year yields <US10YT=RR> are likely to find a bottom between 3.25 and 3.35 percent relatively soon. Earlier, they fell as far as 3.43 percent, their lowest since 2003.   

Adkins said the timing could depend on the outcome of the Fed's interest rate meeting next Wednesday and the U.S. government's monthly employment report two days later.   

The bond market should also see a rise in longer term yields relative to shorter maturities, with this steepening of the yield curve being driven by Fed rate cuts which should help to revive economic growth and inflation.   

Yields on 10-year notes are now about 140 basis points more than rates on two-year Treasuries. This is likely to head up to 175 basis points, said Jeff Hlavacek, director of fixed income trading at  BNP Paribas in New York.   

"Technically the thing that really stands out clearest is the curve," said Hlavacek.   
   RFMARKETS-SELLOFF/BOTTOM (ANALYSIS)|LANGEN|ABN|C|D|E|M|O|U|MTL|GRO|SOF|OIL   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | e1202 : Interest Rates | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m131 : Money Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ecat : Economic News | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCSTX | DBT | GVD | MUNI | INT | MCE | STIR | MMT | FED | CEN | PLCY | EMBG:DBT | EMBG:PLCY | embargokeyE1   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020080125e41m00271  



 HDFACTBOX-Global interest rates in 2008      WC902 words   PD22 January 2008   ET16:21   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited   
   LP(updates with Canada raet cut)   

LONDON, Jan 22 (Reuters) - The U.S. Federal Reserve cut its main interest rate by three quarters of a percentage point on Jan. 22 to 3.5 percent. On the same day the  Bank of Canada lowered its key rate by a quarter of a percentage point to 4.0 percent.   
   TDAs a result of these moves the average rate set by central banks of the Group of Seven nations fell to 3.50 percent from 3.70 percent while the average    


rate set by 11 leading central banks -- the five that decide monetary policy for
the G7 nations plus six other major banks -- fell to 4.43 percent from 4.52
   

percent.   

For interest rate changes in 2007 please double click on [ID:nL0860845]   

For interest rate changes in 2006 please double click on [ID:nL16106090]   

The following table of average rates is aimed at reflecting the movement of official policy rates during the economic cycle rather than actual borrowing costs.   


                  2008
 MONTH: END06..END07..01...02...03...04...05...06...07...08...09...10...11...12
 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 G7 AVG: 3.65  3.70 3.50   -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -  
 11 AVG: 4.00  4.52 4.43   -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -  
 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 FED     5.25  4.25  3.5   -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -  
 BOJ 1)  0.25  0.50   -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -  
 ECB     3.50  4.00   -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -  
 BOE     5.00  5.50   -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -  
 BOC     4.25  4.25  4.0   -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -  
 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 SNB 2)  2.00  2.75   -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -  
 RBA     6.25  6.75   -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -  
 RBNZ    7.25  8.25   -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -  
 RIKSBK  3.00  4.00   -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -  
 NORWAY  3.50  5.25   -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -  
 DENMARK 3.75  4.25   -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -  
 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 NO. OF RATE
 CHANGES: 2007: 34    2    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -  
 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 MONTH: END06..END07..01...02...03...04...05...06...07...08...09...10...11...12
 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 EASTERN EUROPE:
 POLAND 4.00   5.00   -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -  
 HUNG   8.00   7.50   -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -  
 CZECH  2.50   3.50   -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -  
 SLOVAK 4.75   4.25   -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -  
 RUSSIA 11.0   10.0   -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -  
 UKRAINE 8.5   8.0  10.0   -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -  
 ROMANIA 8.75  7.5   8.0   -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -  
 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 LATIN AMERICA:
 BRAZIL 18.00 11.25  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -  
 MEX 3)  7.0   7.5   -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -  
 CHILE   5.25  6.0  6.25  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -  
 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 ASIA
 KOREA   4.50  5.00  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -  
 THAI 4) 5.00  3.25  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -  
 PHIL    7.50  5.25  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -  
 TAIWAN  2.75  3.375 -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -  
 INDS    9.75  8.00  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -  
 INDIA   6.00  6.00  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -  
 CHINA   6.12  7.47  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -  
 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 MIDDLE EAST/AFRICA:
 SARB    9.0  11.0   -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -  
 ISRAEL  4.5  4.25   -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -  
 TURKEY 17.5  15.75 15.5  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -  
 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 MONTH:DEC06..DEC07..01...02...03...04...05...06...07...08...09...10...11...12
   

NOTES:   

If rates change more than once a month, the last rate for that month is listed.   

1. On March 9, 2006 the BOJ said it would no longer set a target for the amount of surplus funds in the money market, ending its "quantitative easing" policy, and adopted a more conventional tactic of guiding the unsecured overnight call rate. On July 14, 2006 it raised interest rates for the first time in six years.   

2. The  Swiss National Bank targets a range for the three-month Swiss franc LIBOR rate. It currently targets roughly the midpoint of that range.   

3. Table shows the Bank of Mexico's overnight lending rate. This replaces monthly averages of yields on 28-day Cetes treasury bills at weekly open market operations, as shown in past tables.   

4. On Jan. 17, 2007 the Bank of Thailand set a new policy rate based on the 1-day repurchase rate <BOT15>, instead of the 14-day rate. The rate was set at 4.75 percent, compared with the market close that day of 4.9375 percent. Comparison in the table for the end of 2006 shows the 14-day rate. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------   

INTEREST RATES. (All the interest rates are policy rates identified by each central bank):   

GROUP OF SEVEN CENTRAL BANKS:   

U.S FEDERAL RESERVE = federal funds rate   

BANK OF JAPAN = overnight call rate   

EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK = refi rate   

BANK OF ENGLAND = bank rate   

BANK OF CANADA = overnight funding rate   

MAJOR CENTRAL BANKS:   

SWISS NATIONAL BANK = 3-month Swiss Libor   

RESERVE BANK OF AUSTRALIA = cash rate   

RESERVE BANK OF NEW ZEALAND = cash rate   

SWEDISH RIKSBANK = repo rate   

NORGES BANK = deposit rate   

DENMARKS NATIONALBANK = 2-week cd rate   

CENTRAL AND EASTERN EUROPE:   

NATIONAL BANK OF POLAND (NBP): 28-day intervention rate   

NATIONAL BANK OF HUNGARY: (NBH) 2-week deposit rate   

CZECH NATIONAL BANK (CNB): 2-week repo rate   

NATIONAL BANK OF SLOVAKIA (NBS): 2-week limit repo rate   

CENTRAL BANK OF RUSSIAN FEDERATION (CBR): refinancing rate   

NATIONAL BANK OF UKRAINE (NBU): discount rate   

NATIONAL BANK OF ROMANIA (NBR): monetary policy rate   

LATIN AMERICA:   

CENTRAL BANK OF BRASIL (BCB): Selic rate   

CENTRAL BANK OF CHILE (BCC): Discount rate   

BANK OF MEXICO: Overnight lending rate   

ASIA:   

BANK OF KOREA: Overnight call rate   

BANK OF THAILAND: 1-day repurchase (repo) rate. End-05 and end-06 comparisons are for the 14-day repo rate (see note 4 above)   

CENTRAL BANK OF PHILIPPINES: Overnight borrowing rate   

CENTRAL BANK OF CHINA (TAIWAN): Discount rate   

BANK INDONESIA: Bank Indonesia (BI) reference rate   

RESERVE BANK OF INDIA: Reverse repo rate   

PEOPLE'S BANK OF CHINA: One-year yuan lending rate   

MIDDLE EAST/AFRICA:   

SOUTH AFRICAN RESERVE BANK: Repurchase rate   

BANK OF ISRAEL: Short-term lending rate   

CENTRAL BANK OF TURKEY: Overnight borrowing   

(editing by David Stamp)   
   RFGLOBAL-RATES/2008 (FACTBOX)|LANGEN|Table|ABN|M|E|U|NAT|D|CANT|J|UKI|RNP|DNP|PTD   NSe1201 : Central Bank Intervention | ecbnk : European Central Bank | gseven : Group of Seven | m131 : Money Markets | e1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | eec : European Union | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations   REasiaz : Asia | austr : Australia | cana : Canada | eurz : Europe | jap : Japan | nz : New Zealand | uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | weurz : Western Europe | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | easiaz : Eastern Asia | eecz : European Union Countries | namz : North America   IPCG7 | CEN | MCE | INT | MMT | DBT | FRX | FED | BOJ | ECB | BOE | SNB | GLOBAL/INT | EMBG:DBT | EMBG:GLOBAL/INT | embargokeyE2E2   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020080125e41m001md  



 HDCORRECTED - ANALYSIS-US Fed cuts, stimulus package won't stem foreclosures      BYBy Joanne Morrison      WC693 words   PD23 January 2008   ET22:44   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited   
   LP(Corrects in paragraph 7 Wall Street estimates that $165 billion prime mortgages are subject to reset and that $370 billion in subprime mortgages will reset in 2008)   

WASHINGTON, Jan 23 (Reuters) - For Main Street, interest rate cuts and a plan by the White House and Congress to pump $150 billion into the economy are unlikely to keep many Americans from losing their dream of homeownership to foreclosure.   
   TDWall Street was quick to applaud an unusually aggressive interest rate cut from the Federal Reserve on Tuesday, which came as President George W. Bush and lawmakers scrambled to assemble a package of tax rebates and other measures intended to stave off a recession.   

But industry experts say these steps won't necessarily translate into lower mortgage costs for some 2 million Americans with risky subprime home loans with rates that are scheduled to adjust sharply higher over the next year.   

For those who qualify for traditional 30-year fixed-rate mortgages, lower rates are now available thanks to recent Fed interest rate cuts. But many subprime borrowers have mortgages larger than what their properties are worth, and experts don't see home values rising any time soon.   

"Home prices, at best, are going to level off. So long as home prices are not rising, the reset problem exists," said Bill Hampell, chief economist at the Credit Union National Association in Washington.   

In addition, the rates on most of these subprime mortgages only adjust up and never down, regardless of interest rate conditions in the market.   

Over the next year about $165 billion in prime adjustable rate mortgages are subject to resets, along with the $370 billion in subprime mortgages subject to reset. With prices falling, those resets are expected to lead to a cascading wave of foreclosures.   

"The interest rate is only a relative part of their problem. They have too much mortgage and they basically were promised that the equity in their house would grow and that they could refinance," said John Taylor, president of the National Community Reinvestment Coalition.   

Many homeowners who financed their homes with subprime mortgages did so expecting the value of those properties would rise, enabling them to refinance out of their pricey mortgages and into loans with better terms.   

But the housing market turned down and it continues to slide.   

HOME PRICES FALLING   

Over the 12 months through November, prices on previously owned homes fell 3.3 percent, according to the National Association of Realtors. In Western areas of the United States where home prices rose sharply during the boom, prices tumbled nearly 7.0 percent.   

In addition, new home construction has slowed to just half of the pace it hit when it peaked in 2006, and experts say it will not pick up until record high inventories of unsold homes are pared back. For that to happen, prices may need to fall further.   

Fixed mortgage rates, which are tied to yields on long-term bonds that fluctuate on the outlook for the economy, have dropped, but the spread between 30-year mortgage rates and the benchmark 10-year Treasury note has widened.   

And for non-conforming fixed-rate mortgages, those in excess of $417,000 -- commonly known as jumbo mortgages -- the spread is even wider.   

But tighter credit, brought on by a rise in foreclosures, has not led to better rates for riskier borrowers who do not qualify for traditional fixed-rate loans.   

"Rate cuts don't change the risk profile of borrowers out there," cautioned Bill Dunkelberg, chief economist at the National Federation of Independent Business.   

What's worse is that if the economy slows, and consumers lose their jobs, that could add up to more foreclosures, outside of the subprime arena, cautioned Hampell.   

"A recession would add on top of that some additional foreclosures and that's not (a scenario) that we've been factoring in so far," he said. (Reporting By Joanne Morrison; Editing by Clive McKeef)   
   RFUSA-ECONOMY/FORECLOSURE (ANALYSIS) (CORRECTED)|LANGEN|ABN|C|D|E|M|O|U|MTL|GRO|SOF|OIL|UKI|J|CANT|AUF   INicre : Construction/Real Estate   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | e1202 : Interest Rates | ncrx : Corrected Items | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCWASH | FED | PLCY | MCE | STIR | INT | BANK | FIN | REA | REAM | BSVC | FINS | EMBG:PLCY | embargokeyE1E1E1E1   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020080126e41n000la  



 SELEADER   HDSharp Fed rate cuts are justified But US central bank must mitigate the risks they create.    WC482 words   PD23 January 2008   SNFinancial Times   SCFTFT   EDAsia Ed1   PGPage 8   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPIt is hard to decide which words are more worrying: "You have a life-threatening condition and we have to operate now," or: "You have a life-threatening condition but we'll decide whether we need to operate next week." The Federal Reserve, with its 75 basis points interest rate cut, has sent a signal that it is truly concerned and will do what it takes to avert deflation. But no aggressive intervention is without risk. 

There has now been enough weak US economic data to justify much looser monetary policy. Surveys of consumer and business sentiment suggest a sharp slowdown; there is evidence that credit is now harder to obtain; and there are signs of incipient labour market weakness. All support lower rates, although most will have been anticipated when the Fed last met in December. 
   TDWhat is new, and what may have pushed the Fed to act, is the woes of so-called "monoline" insurers. Their failure, which is now a present danger, could produce more financial contagion and reduce credit to a swath of the real economy. There is an overall danger that successive blows to confidence could create a recession where none was in prospect, and the Fed's sharp rate cut is an important counteraction. 

It may not be decisive, however. Banks are running scared of credit losses and it remains to be seen whether they will expand their lending, or even pass all of the Fed's cut on to their customers. The effects of lower rates may be limited - but that is an argument for cutting more rather than less. 

That it is an "emergency" cut - made just one week before a scheduled meeting - risks creating the impression that the Fed has panicked. It will also add to perceptions that the Fed is susceptible to market pressure (equities fell heavily on Monday) and that the mode of its action is unpredictable. Both will make monetary policy harder to conduct in normal times. 

The risk to inflation is clear but, at this point, worth taking. The core consumer price index rose by 2.4 per cent in the year to December and the headline index, including food and energy, rose much more. In normal circumstances this would be worrying, but while the headlines are about collapsing house prices and the risk of recession, there is little chance of igniting a spiral of higher wages and prices. 

The Fed needs to explain why it could not wait a week but, on balance, aggressive rate cuts are a risk worth running. It must also accept the inverse of today's policy: that when the economy stabilises, rates will have to rise as fast as they fell. The Fed's skill as an economic doctor is about to be tested.  
   RF20080123A108.174   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | nedi : Editorial | ncat : Content Types   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTFT000020080123e41n0000l  



 SEWORLD NEWS - EMERGENCY RATE CUT   HDEurope blames US policies.    BYBy TONY BARBER    WC199 words   PD23 January 2008   SNFinancial Times   SCFTFT   EDLondon Ed1   PGPage 2   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPEuropean policymakers yesterday blamed the turmoil in global equity markets on US economic and fiscal policy and said Europe's economy was resilient enough to emerge without great damage, Tony Barber writes in Brussels . 

"The main reason (for the turbulence) is the risk of a recession in the US," said Joaquin Almunia, European Union monetary affairs commissioner. "It's not about a global recession. It's about a recession in the US, because big imbalances have built up over the years in the US economy - a big current account deficit, a big fiscal deficit and a lack of savings." 
   TDAsked to comment on the US Federal Reserve's interest rate cut yesterday, Tommaso Padoa-Schioppa, Italy's finance minister, said: "I don't think the events of the last 24 hours change fundamentally the assessment. A correction is under way, a correction to important imbalances." 

Mr Almunia suggested that if European economic growth were below potential this year, the European Commission might relax its insistence that governments balance their budgets as promised by 2010. Growth is expected to be 1.8 per cent or less.  
   RF20080123L102.336   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | e21 : Government Finance | e211 : Government Taxation/Revenue | ecat : Economic News | gpol : Domestic Politics | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations   REeurz : Europe | usa : United States | namz : North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTFT000020080123e41n00026  



 SEFT REPORT - THE WORLD 2008   HDTough call for Fed.    BYBy KRISHNA GUHA    WC869 words   PD23 January 2008   SNFinancial Times   SCFTFT   EDSurveys WLD1   PGPage 2   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPThe US is in an exceptionally difficult situation, with the economy on the brink of recession and limited scope for policymakers to ride to the rescue. 

To some analysts it looks like payback time after a decade in which the US lived beyond its means with the help of generous foreign creditors and a booming housing market. 
   TDThat view ignores the essential role the US played in supporting global growth for much of the 2000s. 

But there is no doubt that the US is in double trouble today because of the excesses of the past and the vulnerabilities associated with global economic imbalances. 

The collapse of the twin bubbles in the housing and credit markets is a massive shock for the US economy and one that would be difficult to manage in the most favourable of circumstances. 

The US has endured financial market crises before but this turmoil reflects and magnifies a far-reaching development: the sharp reversal in US house prices. 

The dual deflation - of housing and housing-related assets - has already devastated home construction and is now threatening to sap consumer spending and erode the lending capacity of the banking system. 

Meanwhile dysfunction in the financial system through which monetary policy operates has limited the stimulative effect of interest rate cuts by the Federal Reserve. 

The twin bubbles and global imbalances are related, as Robert Dugger of Tudor Investments has argued. The US manufactured hundreds of billions of dollars of securities to sell to foreigners in order to finance its giant current account deficit. 

Meanwhile the downward pressure of excess savings outside the US on government bond yields induced investors of all kinds to seek ways to boost yield, compressing risk premiums to unsustainably low levels and - among other things - fuelling the subprime mortgage market. 

Now the housing/credit market bust is moderating the current account imbalance - and the savings/investment balance that is its counterpart. 

But as Martin Feldstein, a professor at Harvard, says, it is happening "through a reduction in investment primarily in housing rather than an increase in saving". 

A substantial fall in the dollar was required to deliver the external adjustment that has taken place so far: economists differ as to whether more will be needed. 

On the plus side, world growth remains strong, providing a much-needed lifeline for the US. Net exports should continue to lend some support to US growth in the coming quarters, though not as much as in the middle of 2007. 

On the minus side, the Fed - like other central banks - has to cope with the risks to inflation from the oil price shock caused by surging demand for energy in China, India and the rest of the emerging economies. 

The still very large current account deficit makes the Fed balancing act vastly more difficult. With little scope to inflate more asset bubbles at home, one of the main ways in which monetary policy works is through the dollar and net exports. 

The significant decline in the dollar since the credit squeeze began is not an accident - the Fed needed the dollar to fall to stimulate the US economy. 

But the US central bank's ability to cut rates aggressively is limited by the structural vulnerability of the dollar arising from the external deficit. 

Indeed, the events of the past year or so constitute close to a perfect storm for the dollar, with a deterioration in both US short-term and long-term growth prospects, declining interest rates on US assets and a shock to confidence in the transparency and liquidity of US financial markets. 

Excessive rate cuts could push oil up further and unleash inflation expectations when US headline inflation is high and core inflation creeping up. 

The Fed is widely criticised in the financial markets for being behind the curve on monetary policyBut with inflation consistently above the Fed's implicit target, a large external deficit and a vulnerable currency, the Fed was almost obliged to stay a fraction to the hawkish side of the market. The Fed now appears to be throwing caution to the wind and adopting a more aggressive stance on rate cuts. 

This holds out some promise for growth, but brings the risks to inflation and the dollar closer. Ben Bernanke, Fed chairman, is presumably betting that recession fear will tamp down price and wage pressure. But if inflation expectations start to move up, the Fed will be in a real bind. 

Meanwhile the Fed's dilemma explains why so many top economists in the US are now advocating a fiscal stimulus to bypass the financial system, boost spending, and take some of the pressure off the central bank and monetary policy. 

Such a stimulus now looks likely. The question is whether it will come in time to do any good. A fiscal stimulus will reduce US national savings further, and put upward pressure on the current account deficit, though not dollar for dollar. 

From the US point of view what might be even more helpful would be stimulus - monetary and fiscal - in the rest of the world. 

Krishna Guha is the FT's US Economics Editor.  
   RF20080123S102.247   INireest : Real Estate | icre : Construction/Real Estate   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1101 : Economic Growth | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTFT000020080123e41n0005o  



 HDRepeat:Fed Ups Pressure On ECB; Unclear How Long It Will Wait      WC732 words   PD23 January 2008   ET07:36   SNMarket News International   SCMARNEW   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008. Market News International, Inc.   
   TD
--Initially Ran on Mainwire at 1726 GMT/1126 EST Tuesday

     FRANKFURT, Jan. 22 (MNI) - Tuesday's massive 75 basis point 
interest rate cut by the US Federal Reserve in the face of a global 
stock market meltdown will increase pressure on the European Central 
Bank to jettison its tightening bias and consider the need for cutting 
its own rates in response to intensifying threats to economic growth. 

     It is unclear how long the ECB can resist that pressure or how 
difficult it might be for the Governing Council to achieve a quick 
consensus on the possible need to shift its monetary policy into 
reverse. Some Council members apparently still see very little urgency, 
judging by their comments this week on inflation risks and economic 
growth near potential. 

     It is likely the ECB will be content for now to let the Fed do the 
heavy lifting - as it should do in response to a homegrown problem. If 
confidence is shored up enough for markets to gain a foothold, it's 
possible the ECB would refrain from action while slowly altering its 
rhetoric to signal a shift to a neutral bias -- and possibly beyond 
neutral. 

     Arguing against a near-term rate cut is the ECB's deeply rooted 
mistrust of dramatic policy actions aimed at fine-tuning the economy. 
The Bundesbank's old "steady hand" approach is still the guiding ethos 
at the ECB. 

     On a more complicated note, the ECB might face a credibility 
problem that could take some time to resolve. If it continues to talk 
tough on inflation in the face of crumbling growth prospects, it could 
risk being perceived as blind to the threats facing the real economy and 
in danger of falling behind the curve. 

     The problem would not completely disappear even if the ECB did 
shift gears swiftly in response to a deteriorating economic and 
financial environment. Having virtually painting itself into a corner 
with its harsh inflation rhetoric, the ECB would then face unflattering 
questions after the fact about its prior reading of reality. 

     If push came to shove, however, any concerns it might have about 
projecting a credible and authoritative image would nonetheless not 
prevent the ECB from responding appropriately -- especially if it were 
convinced that a greater than expected slowdown would likely reduce 
inflation dangers. 

     The ECB would probably be quite happy not to have to react to a 
market meltdown at this point, as this would give it time to gradually 
shift its policy stance and thus keep unpleasant questions to a minimum. 

     That shift has already started, and the ECB has indicated that it 
is increasingly aware of the risk that the eurozone slowdown will be 
more pronounced than it had anticipated. It has also watered down its 
assertions that Europe is relatively insulated from U.S. economic 
developments, and the latest equity market upheaval should make it even 
more alert to the risks involved. 

     That said, the ECB will want to wait for more evidence that the 
real economy in Europe could be hit hard by the financial disruptions 
amid signs of slowing demand in other parts of the world. 

     It may still take some exceptionally bad eurozone economic data to 
dislodge the ECB from its position of "very close" monitoring. And if 
markets do stabilize from here on, that will reaffirm the view of some 
Council members that the situation is not dramatic. 

     If, however, equity markets and confidence in general continue to 
spiral downward, the ECB could be forced to cut rates more quickly than 
the markets have been expecting, its inflation worries notwithstanding. 
Europe's economic fundamentals may be sturdier than those of the U.S. at 
the moment, but they could quickly become shaky if spillover effects are 
protracted or intensify. 

     Barring a severe jolt to the economy, it is hard to see the ECB 
communicating a major shift in its policy stance before the next staff 
projections are published in early March. 

     A major downward revision to the projections for economic growth -- 
which would tend to lower those for inflation as well -- could be the 
trigger for a move to neutral or possibly even to an easing bias. 
Conceivably, this could open the way to an ECB rate cut as soon as Q2. 

--Frankfurt bureau, 00-49-69-720-142; Email: christian@marketnews.com   
   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | e1101 : Economic Growth | ecbnk : European Central Bank | ecat : Economic News | eec : European Union | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBMarket News International, Inc.   ANDocument MARNEW0020080123e41n0004o  



 HDSaudi Cbank Vice: No Reason To Rethink Dlr Peg At Present      WC509 words   PD23 January 2008   ET14:31   SNMarket News International   SCMARNEW   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008. Market News International, Inc.   
   TD

     DAVOS, Switzerland (MNI) - Muhammad S. Al Jasser, vice governor of 
the Saudi Arabian Monetary Agency, said Wednesday there was no reason to 
rethink his country's peg to the U.S. dollar, though that could change 
if the greenback were to plunge precipitously - a scenario he did not 
expect to materialize. 

     "Overall, the dollar peg is still serving our economy well. There 
is no reason to rethink that under the prevailing conditions," Al Jasser 
told Market News International on the margins of the World Economic 
Forum Annual Meeting 2008 here. 

     "If our exports changed significantly, and if the dollar were to 
decline more precipitously, then we would have to reconsider," he said. 
However, "I don't expect any of this to happen," Al Jasser added. He 
called current developments in world markets "manageable." 

     Asked if Tuesday's 75 basis point surprise interest rate cut by the 
US Federal Reserve weakened Saudi Arabia's commitment to the dollar peg, 
he replied: "No it does not, because [the peg] is not based on interest 
rates but rather on the trade regime," he said. 

     Al Jasser noted that 100% of Saudi exports are denominated in 
dollars, as are more than 70% of its imports. 

     "So we have a natural hedge when we choose the dollar," Al Jasser 
said. 

     Nonetheless, like other countries with a dollar peg, Saudi Arabia 
must "pay attention to what the US does," he said with respect to the 
Fed's move. While not wishing to comment directly on Fed monetary 
policy, Al Jasser said he trusts that the Fed has "seen data that 
financial markets and the economy need help from the point of view of 
preventing recessionary pressures...sending a signal that the Fed is 
ready to take whatever action." 

     With regard to foreign exchange reserve holdings, Al Jasser said, 
"we do not talk about the composition of our investment portfolio, but 
we always look at safety, liquidity and return." He called those the 
"three critical elements." 

     Asked whether an economic slowdown in the US and the associated 
monetary policy easing lessened the attractiveness of the dollar, Al 
Jasser said: "Theoretically you could say that, but in reality we have 
not yet seen strong competition to the dollar as the strongest reserve 
currency." 

     Asked about outlook for the global economy, he said, "clearly there 
are difficulties now, particularly in the US...But on the other hand, 
luckily, the global economy is doing very well. So I think in some ways 
the rest of the [world] will be helping to alleviate recessionary 
pressures in the US and recessionary pressures from the US on the rest 
of the world." 

     Asked for his view on petroleum prices, Al Jasser said, "the prices 
of oil are determined by markets...so they are not something one country 
can control." He added that he sees "no shortage of supply in oil 
markets" and that Saudi Arabia has not turned away one buyer yet. 

[TOPICS: MT$$$$,MX$$$$,MI$$$$,MI$OI$,MMUFE$,M$$FX$]   
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBMarket News International, Inc.   ANDocument MARNEW0020080123e41n0009x  



 HDWorld Press Reacts: Fed Cuts Key  Interest Rate  As Recession Fears Well Up      BYA Wall Street Journal Online News Roundup      WC374 words   PD22 January 2008   SNThe Wall Street Journal Online   SCWSJO   LAEnglish   CYCopyright (c) 2008, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.   
   LPThe Federal Reserve Board, confronted with a global stock sell-off fanned by increased fears of a recession, on Tuesday cut its target for the federal funds rate by three-quarters of a percentage point to 3.5%.   

The Fed, taking the unusual action of cutting interest rates before a scheduled meeting at the end of the month, said it took this action "in view of a weakening of the economic outlook and increasing downside risks to growth." (Read the Fed's statement.)   
   TDIn a related move, the Fed board also approved an comparable decrease in the discount rate to 4%.   

"While strains in short-term funding markets have eased somewhat, broader financial market conditions have continued to deteriorate and credit has tightened further for some businesses and households," the Fed said. "Moreover, incoming information indicates a deepening of the housing contraction as well as some softening in labor markets."   

The Fed said it expects inflation to moderate in coming quarters, "but it will be necessary to continue to monitor inflation developments carefully." However, it said "appreciable downside risks to growth remain."   

The Fed action was the most dramatic signal it can send that it is concerned about a potential recession in the U.S. It marked the biggest one-day move by the central bank in recent memory.   

The statement also said that the Fed's interest rate setting panel "will continue to assess the effects of financial and other developments on economic prospects and will act in a timely manner as needed to address those risks. "   

The Fed said those voting for the interest rate cut were Chairman Ben Bernanke; Timothy F. Geithner, vice chairman; Charles L. Evans; Thomas M. Hoenig; Donald L. Kohn; Randall S. Kroszner; Eric S. Rosengren; and Kevin M. Warsh.   

Fed Gov. William Poole voted against it, saying he didn't believe that current conditions justified policy action before the regularly scheduled meeting next week. Gov. Frederic S. Mishkin was absent.   

---   

The Associated Press contributed to this article   

---   

Write to the Online Journal's editors at newseditors@wsj.com   

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | ecat : Economic News | gvexe : Executive Branch | m131 : Money Markets | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCFED | USG | NND | TPX   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument WSJO000020080123e41m00002  



 HDUS Fed cuts  interest rate  amid global stock sell-off and fears of recession      BYBy MARTIN CRUTSINGER      CRAP Economics Writer   WC913 words   PD22 January 2008   ET18:57   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPWASHINGTON (AP) - The Federal Reserve unexpectedly slashed a key interest rate by a bold three-fourths of a percentage point on Tuesday, responding to a global plunge in stock markets that heightened concerns about a recession in the U.S. The Fed signaled that further rate cuts were likely.   

The reduction in the federal funds rate from 4.25 percent down to 3.5 percent marked the biggest reduction in this target rate for overnight loans on records going back to 1990. It marked the first time that the Fed has changed rates between meetings since 2001, when the central bank was battling the combined impacts of a recession and the terrorist attacks.   
   TDFederal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke and his colleagues approved the large rate cut after an emergency video conference on Monday night, a day when global markets had been pounded by rising concerns that weakness in the world's largest economy was spreading worldwide.   

Despite the Fed's bold move, Wall Street plunged at the opening with the Dow Jones industrial average down 465 points before stocks began to rebound. The Dow was down 120 points in early afternoon trading, an indication that the Fed's effort to calm markets was having an impact.   

In a brief statement explaining its move, the Fed said that "appreciable downside risks to growth remain" and officials pledged to "act in a timely manner" to deal with the risks facing the economy. The action was approved on an 8-1 vote.   

Analysts said the fact that the Fed did not wait until its meeting next week to cut rates underscored the seriousness of the situation.   

"The world's stock markets are in meltdown so the Fed came in with an inter-meeting move to try to stop the panic," Christopher Rupkey, senior economist at  Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi.

The Bush administration, which had announced on Friday that President George W. Bush supported a $150 billion (euro103.5 billion) economic stimulus package, said Tuesday that it was not ruling out doing more than the $150 billion proposal if necessary. Bush and Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson were conferring with congressional leaders at the White House on Tuesday, with all sides saying they want to reach agreement quickly.   

The Fed was expected to cut rates further, possibly as soon as their next meeting on Jan. 29-30, if there are continued signs that the economy is weakening.   

"This move by the Fed was essential," said Lyle Gramley, a former Fed governor who is now a senior analyst with the  Stanford Financial Group in Washington. "Bernanke promised in a speech earlier this month to take substantive action in a timely and decisive manner."   

Gramley said that Bernanke was now exercising the kind of forceful leadership the markets had been hoping to see since the credit crisis hit in August.   

David Jones, chief economist at DMJ Advisors, said Fed officials have a range of options available at next week's meeting from a quarter-point move to a half-point move to holding rates steady but indicating the Fed is prepared to move again between meetings should conditions deteriorate further. Jones predicted the Fed would lower the funds rate to 3 percent by the end of March.   

In addition to cutting the funds rate, the Fed said it was reducing its discount rate, the interest it charges to make direct loans to banks, by a similar three-quarters of a percentage point, pushing this rate down to 4 percent.   

Commercial banks responded to the Fed's action on the funds rate by announcing similar cuts of three-quarter of a percent on its prime lending rate, the benchmark for millions of business and consumer loans. The action will mean the prime lending rate will drop from 7.25 percent down to 6.50 percent.   

Global financial markets had plunged Monday as investors grew more concerned about the possibility that the United States, the world's largest economy, could be headed into a recession. Many markets suffered their biggest declines since the September 2001 terrorist attacks.   

In its statement, the Fed said it had decided to cut the federal funds rate "in view of a weakening of the economic outlook and increasing downside risks to growth."   

The central bank said that the strains in short-term credit markets have eased a bit, but "broader financial market conditions have continued to deteriorate and credit has tightened further for some businesses and households. Moreover, incoming information indicates a deepening of the housing contraction as well as some softening in labor markets."   

Before Tuesday's move, the Fed had cut interest rates three times, beginning in September, the month after a severe credit crunch had roiled Wall Street and global financial markets. The Fed cut the funds rate by a half-point in September and then by smaller quarter-point moves in October and December.   

"The committee will continue to assess the effects of financial and other developments on economic prospects and will act in a timely manner as needed to address those risk," the Fed statement said.   

The Fed's action was approved on an 8-1 vote with William Poole, president the Fed's regional bank, dissenting. The statement said that Poole objected because he did not believe current conditions justified a rate move before the Fed's meeting next week.   
   RF7   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPCtagpf1wcat | sel----- | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | NA FIN ECO US Fed Interest Rates | D8UB2U8O0   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020080122e41m001xw  



 HDBank of America cuts key  interest rate  after  Federal Reserve  decision      WC128 words   PD22 January 2008   ET15:00   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPNEW YORK (AP) -  Bank of America on Tuesday lowered its prime rate by three-quarters of a percentage point after the Federal Reserve cut its key interest rate.   

BofA said its prime rate is now 6.5 percent. The Fed cut the federal funds rate, which is what banks charge each other for overnight loans, to 3.5 percent from 4.25 percent previously.   
   TDThe prime rate is what banks charge their best customers, and serves as the benchmark for lending rates to all customers for mortgages, credit cards and other products.   

Most banks typically raise or lower their prime rate by an amount equal to the Fed's rate action within minutes of its decision.   
   RF7   COncnbco : Bank of America Corporation   INi81501 : Credit Types/Services | ibnk : Banking/Credit | i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagapf | selapfin | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | APFN Bank of America Prime Rate | D8UAVFA01   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020080122e41m001z2  



 HDCity National Bank cuts key  interest rate  after  Federal Reserve  decision      WC134 words   PD23 January 2008   ET00:14   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPNEW YORK (AP) - City National Bank on Tuesday lowered its prime rate by three-quarters of a percentage point after the Federal Reserve cut its key interest rate.   

City National Bank, based in Los Angeles, said its prime rate is now 6.5 percent. The Fed cut the federal funds rate, which is what banks charge each other for overnight loans, to 3.5 percent from 4.25 percent previously.   
   TDThe prime rate is what banks charge their best customers, and serves as the benchmark for lending rates to all customers for mortgages, credit cards and other products.   

Most banks typically raise or lower their prime rate by an amount equal to the Fed's rate action within minutes of its decision.   
   RF7   INi81501 : Credit Types/Services | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagapf | selapfin | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | APFN City National Bank Prime Rate | D8UB7IT80   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020080122e41m003o2  



 HDHSBC Bank USA cuts key  interest rate  after  Federal Reserve  decision      WC142 words   PD23 January 2008   ET00:23   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPNEW YORK (AP) -  HSBC Bank USA on Tuesday lowered its prime rate by three-quarters of a percentage point after the Federal Reserve cut its key interest rate.   

HSBC Bank USA, a U.S. division of Europe's largest bank,  HSBC Holdings PLC, said its prime rate is now 6.5 percent. The Fed cut the federal funds rate, which is what banks charge each other for overnight loans, to 3.5 percent from 4.25 percent previously.   
   TDThe prime rate is what banks charge their best customers, and serves as the benchmark for lending rates to all customers for mortgages, credit cards and other products.   

Most banks typically raise or lower their prime rate by an amount equal to the Fed's rate action within minutes of its decision.   
   RF7   COhksbc : HSBC Holdings PLC | hsbcus : HSBC USA Inc   INi814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagapf | selapfin | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | APFN HSBC Prime Rate | D8UB7MS84   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020080122e41m003oo  



 HDBank of New York Mellon cuts key  interest rate  after  Federal Reserve  decision      WC137 words   PD23 January 2008   ET00:27   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPNEW YORK (AP) -  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. on Tuesday lowered its prime rate by three-quarters of a percentage point after the Federal Reserve cut its key interest rate.   

Bank of New York Mellon said its prime rate is now 6.5 percent. The Fed cut the federal funds rate, which is what banks charge each other for overnight loans, to 3.5 percent from 4.25 percent previously.   
   TDThe prime rate is what banks charge their best customers, and serves as the benchmark for lending rates to all customers for mortgages, credit cards and other products.   

Most banks typically raise or lower their prime rate by an amount equal to the Fed's rate action within minutes of its decision.   
   RF7   CObnyc : The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   INi81501 : Credit Types/Services | ibnk : Banking/Credit | i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | usny : New York | namz : North America | use : Northeast U.S.   IPCtagapf | selapfin | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | APFN Bank of NY Mellon Prime Rate | D8UB7OO80   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020080122e41m003oz  



 HDFirstMerit cuts key  interest rate  after  Federal Reserve  decision      WC129 words   PD23 January 2008   ET00:28   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPNEW YORK (AP) -  FirstMerit Corp. on Tuesday lowered its prime rate by three-quarters of a percentage point after the Federal Reserve cut its key interest rate.   

FirstMerit, based in Akron, Ohio, said its prime rate is now 6.5 percent. The Fed cut the federal funds rate, which is what banks charge each other for overnight loans, to 3.5 percent from 4.25 percent previously.   
   TDThe prime rate is what banks charge their best customers, and serves as the benchmark for lending rates to all customers for mortgages, credit cards and other products.   

Most banks typically raise or lower their prime rate by an amount equal to the Fed's rate action within minutes of its decision.   
   RF7   COfbo : FirstMerit Corporation   INi81501 : Credit Types/Services | ibnk : Banking/Credit | i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusoh : Ohio | namz : North America | usa : United States | usc : Midwest U.S.   IPCtagapf | selapfin | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | APFN FirstMerit Prime Rate | D8UB7PH80   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020080122e41m003p3  



 HDHuntington Bancshares cuts key  interest rate  after  Federal Reserve  decision      WC131 words   PD23 January 2008   ET00:28   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPNEW YORK (AP) -  Huntington Bancshares on Tuesday lowered its prime rate by three-quarters of a percentage point after the Federal Reserve cut its key interest rate.   

Huntington Bancshares, based in Columbus, Ohio, said its prime rate is now 6.5 percent. The Fed cut the federal funds rate, which is what banks charge each other for overnight loans, to 3.5 percent from 4.25 percent previously.   
   TDThe prime rate is what banks charge their best customers, and serves as the benchmark for lending rates to all customers for mortgages, credit cards and other products.   

Most banks typically raise or lower their prime rate by an amount equal to the Fed's rate action within minutes of its decision.   
   RF7   COhunban : Huntington Bancshares Inc.   INi81501 : Credit Types/Services | ibnk : Banking/Credit | i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusoh : Ohio | namz : North America | usa : United States | usc : Midwest U.S.   IPCtagapf | selapfin | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | APFN Huntington Bancshares Prime Rate | D8UB7PJ80   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020080122e41m003p4  



 HDAsian markets fall; Europe mainly higher after US rate cut      BYBy TOBY ANDERSON      CRAP Business Writer   WC757 words   PD22 January 2008   ET20:10   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPLONDON (AP) - Jitters about the U.S. economy sent global stock indexes lower again Tuesday before the Federal Reserve's surprise cut in interest rates. The move came too late for Asian markets, which had closed for the day, but helped Britain and France rebound higher.   

Asian stocks began global trading sharply lower on fears of a recession in the U.S., with   
   TDJapan's Nikkei 225 index off 5.7 percent -- its biggest percentage drop in nearly 10 years -- and Hong Kong's Hang Seng index down 8.7 percent.   

European stocks had fallen sharply at the opening, then rose in volatile trading ahead of the Fed's decision to cut its key rate to 3.5 percent from 4.25 percent, and rose even more afterward. The U.K.'s FTSE 100 finished up 2.9 percent at 5,740.10, while France's CAC 40 gained 2.1 percent to 4,842.54. In Germany, the DAX ended barely down, off 0.3 percent at 6,769.47, as utilities RWE and E.On fell but financials such as  Deutsche Bank rose.   

The surprise Fed move was aimed at fears that trouble in financial markets from the U.S. subprime crisis was spreading to the broader economy. Interest rate cuts tend to boost stocks. The Canadian central bank quickly followed, lowering its key rate by a quarter of a percent to 4 percent.   

Just hours before the Fed decision, Japan's central bank voted unanimously to leave its benchmark interest rate unchanged at 0.5 percent. The European Central Bank -- highly sensitive to any suggestion that it is not fully independent -- also held steady at 4 percent.   

Some analysts now say the ECB -- which has been worried about inflation -- may have to follow the Fed and start cutting later this year.   

European officials, however, insisted Tuesday that their economies would be able to weather the turbulence from the United States. The European Union's economic and monetary affairs commissioner, Joaquin Almunia, said that big U.S. trade and budget deficits were to blame. "The main reason why the equity markets have this extreme volatile situation these days is the risk of a recession in the U.S., it's not about a global recession," Almunia said.   

British Prime Minister Gordon Brown's spokesman Michael Ellam said that "the fundamentals of the British economy have remained sound" and the government would do everything in its power "to maintain economic stability."   

But Ellam would not comment on whether British interest rates should be cut in response. Many observers believe the Bank of England, which is independent of the British government, will cut rates at its next meeting Feb. 7.   

Before the Fed's move, the Nikkei nose-dived to 12,573.05, a day after falling 3.9 percent, and the Hang Seng added to its 5.5 percent drop on Monday. Australia's benchmark index sank 7.1 percent, its steepest one-day slide in nearly 20 years. In China, the Shanghai Composite index lost 7.2 percent to 4,559.75, its lowest close since August.   

Indian Finance Minister P. Chidambaram urged investors to remain calm after trading in Mumbai was halted for an hour when the stock market there fell 10 percent within minutes of opening. The Sensex climbed back to close down 5 percent after plunging 7.4 percent Monday.   

"There is no reason at all to allow the worries of the Western world to overwhelm us," Chidambaram said.   

Investors had dumped shares in frenetic trading on worries that the U.S. economy, battered by a credit crisis and housing slump, will shrink in coming months, weakening demand for exports. There is also skepticism that American authorities will be able to prevent a recession.   

The Federal Reserve has indicated it will lower interest rates further, and President Bush has proposed an economic stimulus package that includes about $150 billion in tax cuts -- but investors around the world have been doubtful that the measures will lift the economy quickly.   

Noritsugu Hirakawa, who monitors stock trading at Okasan Securities Co. in Tokyo, said investors were spooked by the drastic declines on Chinese and Indian markets -- two emerging economies that are viewed as sustaining global growth even as the U.S. economy sputters.   

------   

Associated Press writers Ramola Talwar Badam in Mumbai, Yuri Kageyama in Tokyo and Cassie Biggs in Hong Kong contributed to this report.   
   RF7   ARTimage image image      NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | m11 : Equity Markets | ecat : Economic News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REuk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe   IPCtagdstab | sel9---- | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | World Markets | D8UB40JG1   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020080122e41m0000k  



 HDNational City cuts key  interest rate  after  Federal Reserve  decision      WC128 words   PD22 January 2008   ET19:47   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPNEW YORK (AP) -  National City Corp. on Tuesday lowered its prime rate by three-quarters of a percentage point after the Federal Reserve cut its key interest rate.   

National City said its prime rate is now 6.5 percent. The Fed cut the federal funds rate, which is what banks charge each other for overnight loans, to 3.5 percent from 4.25 percent previously.   
   TDThe prime rate is what banks charge their best customers, and serves as the benchmark for lending rates to all customers for mortgages, credit cards and other products.   

Most banks typically raise or lower their prime rate by an amount equal to the Fed's rate action within minutes of its decision.   
   RF7   COnatcor : National City Corp   INi81501 : Credit Types/Services | ibnk : Banking/Credit | i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagapf | selapfin | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | APFN National City Prime Rate | D8UB3LPO0   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020080122e41m002sg  



 HDU.S. Bancorp cuts key  interest rate  after  Federal Reserve  decision      WC137 words   PD22 January 2008   ET20:38   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPNEW YORK (AP) -  U.S. Bancorp on Tuesday lowered its prime rate by three-quarters of a percentage point after the Federal Reserve cut its key interest rate.   

Minneapolis-based  U.S. Bancorp said its prime rate is now 6.5 percent, down from 7.25 percent. The Fed cut the federal funds rate, which is what banks charge each other for overnight loans, to 3.5 percent from 4.25 percent previously.   
   TDThe prime rate is what banks charge their best customers, and serves as the benchmark for lending rates to all customers for mortgages, credit cards and other products.   

Most banks typically raise or lower their prime rate by an amount equal to the Fed's rate action within minutes of its decision.   
   RF7   COstaban : US Bancorp (New)   INi81501 : Credit Types/Services | ibnk : Banking/Credit | i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagapf | selapfin | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | APFN U.S. Bancorp Prime Rate | D8UB4DJ80   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020080122e41m002zc  



 HDUPDATE 1-Investors raise bets on Mexico rate cut after Fed      BYBy Jason Lange      WC469 words   PD23 January 2008   ET18:28   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited   
   LP(Recasts; adds details, background and byline)   

MEXICO CITY, Jan 23 (Reuters) - Investors are increasingly betting the Mexican central bank will cut interest rates this year after the U.S. Federal Reserve surprised markets with emergency measures to thwart a recession in the United States.   
   TDThe Federal Reserve slashed interest rates by the biggest amount in two decades on Tuesday and warned about serious risks to the U.S. economy.   

An expected U.S. recession would also hit the economy in Mexico, which sends most of its exports to its northern neighbor. Analysts say that would cool the pace of Mexican inflation, giving the central bank leeway to cut rates in order to help the economy.   

"This whole thing is about being spooked about the economy," said John Welch, an economist at  Lehman Brothers in New York, who expects Mexico's central bank to cut rates in September. "Instead of calming the markets the Fed has added uncertainty."   

Also, lower rates in the United States can boost the peso currency <MXN=><MEX01>, making Mexico's exports more expensive. That could provide further drag on the economy and give Mexico's central bank more reason to cut rates.   

TIIE FUTURES   

Yields on Mexican interest rate futures <TII:> have dropped substantially since the Fed cut its benchmark rate by three-quarters of a percentage point on Tuesday.   

The yield on the TIIE rate future due in July <TIIN8> traded on Wednesday at 7.80 percent, which was 13 basis points lower than the February contract <TIIG8> and pointed to bets on a significant chance of a rate cute in by June.   

The spread between the two contracts was zero on Monday, the day before the Federal Reserve's decision.   

Also helped by anticipation of a Mexican rate cut, the yield on Mexico's benchmark 10-year government peso bond <MX10YT=RR> fell 6 basis points on Wednesday to 7.66 percent, its lowest level since July.   

A poll by Banamex --  Citigroup's Mexican subsidiary -- showed a sharp increase in the number of analysts forecasting a rate cut this year.   

About 40 percent of economists surveyed forecast a cut, up from about 15 percent in the bank's December poll, Banamex said late Tuesday.   

The spread between the Mexican central bank's targeted overnight rate <MXNCTON=RR> and the Fed funds target rate <USFFTARGET=> currently stands at 400 basis points, its widest since late 2005.   

The central bank in the past has explicitly linked Mexican rates with their U.S. equivalents, though its monthly statement it has not signaled it was following the Fed's lead since May 2005. (Reporting by Jason Lange)   
   RFMEXICO-RATES/ (UPDATE 1)|LANGEN|ABN|M|D|E|RBN|U|RNP|DNP   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | e1202 : Interest Rates | m131 : Money Markets | ecat : Economic News | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REdevgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | mex : Mexico | usa : United States | camz : Central America | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | lamz : Latin America | namz : North America   IPCDRV | GVD | DBT | MMT | MCE | CEN | FED | PLCY | STIR | INT   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020080123e41n001ul  



 HDUPDATE 4-Fed slashes US rates in bid to thwart recession      BYBy David Lawder      WC830 words   PD22 January 2008   ET14:51   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited   
   LP(Recasts first paragraph; adds details, analyst comment)   

WASHINGTON, Jan 22 (Reuters) - The U.S. Federal Reserve on Tuesday slashed a key interest rate by the biggest amount in more than 23 years in an emergency bid to head off a U.S. recession and halt a global rout in stocks.   
   TDIn a rare action between regularly scheduled meetings, the U.S. central bank cut the benchmark federal funds rate by three-quarters of a percentage point to 3.5 percent, its lowest level since September 2005.   

The Fed also signaled it stood ready to lower rates further to deal with "appreciable" downside risks to growth, and financial markets saw a good chance that policy-makers would take rates down by another half point at its next scheduled meeting on Jan. 29-30.   

"The Fed is very, very, very worried," said John Tierney, an analyst at  Deutsche Bank in New York.   

The Fed's bold bid before U.S. markets opened -- which some analysts said smacked of panic -- helped instill a bit of confidence in shaken financial markets, but did not stop U.S. stocks from sliding.   

The Dow Jones industrial average <.DJI> initially plummeted 465 points but clawed back to just about 130 points, or 1.1 percent, down by midafternoon. European shares, which suffered big losses on Monday when U.S. markets were shut, closed higher <.FTEU3>.   

Tuesday's action was the biggest cut in the federal funds rate, which governs overnight lending between banks, since October 1984. The Fed also lowered the discount rate it charges on direct loans to banks by a matching amount to 4 percent.   

"The committee took this action in view of a weakening of the economic outlook and increasing downside risks to growth," the Fed said, referring to its policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee.   

"While strains in short-term funding markets have eased somewhat, broader financial market conditions have continued to deteriorate and credit has tightened further for some businesses and households," it said.   

REBUILDING CONFIDENCE   

U.S. Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson said the Fed's move should help rebuild investor confidence. "This is very constructive and I think it shows this country and the rest of the world that our central bank is nimble and can move quickly in response to market conditions," he said.   

The Fed had faced heated criticism from some on Wall Street for failing to move quickly and aggressively enough to put a floor under an economy already beset by a deep housing slump once credit market strains erupted last summer.   

"One is tempted to say, 'Better late than never.' The problem is that such a belated move is now insufficient," said Bernard Baumohl, managing director of the Economic Outlook Group in Princeton Junction, New Jersey.   

"The Fed and other major central banks need to act more quickly and decisively if they are to prevent a severe and prolonged global economic downturn," he said.   

Until Tuesday, the Fed had cut rates by one percentage point since it began easing monetary policy four months ago. It had cut rates by two full percentage points in the first four months of its previous easing cycle, which started in January 2001, just before the United States slipped into recession.   

Shortly after the Fed announced it was lowering U.S. interest rates, the  Bank of Canada cut its key overnight interest rate by a quarter percentage point to 4 percent and said further cuts were likely to be needed. For details, see [ID:nN22485908].   

MORE U.S. RATE CUTS?   

Even after the Fed's move, interest-rate futures markets showed a 74 percent chance of another half-percentage point reduction in U.S. rates next week. They also pointed to a federal funds rate of 2.25 percent by midyear. [ID:nN22481752]   

"Appreciable downside risks to growth remain," the Fed said. "The committee will continue to assess the effects of financial and other developments on economic prospects and will act in a timely manner as needed to address those risks."   

"Incoming information indicates a deepening of the housing contraction as well as some softening in labor markets," it said.   

The cut in the federal funds rate was the first between regularly scheduled Fed meetings since Sept. 17, 2001, the first day U.S. financial markets reopened after the Sept. 11 attacks.   

The Fed only began to set an explicit target for the federal funds rate around 1990. Previously, it manipulated the money supply to influence bank lending rates.   

And the bank did not start announcing federal funds rate changes until 1995, signaling its policy stance before that through discount rate changes.   

Tuesday's discount rate cut was the largest since it cut the discount rate by a full percentage point in December 1991.   
   RFUSA-FED/ (UPDATE 4)|LANGEN|ABN|C|D|E|M|O|U|MTL|GRO|SOF|OIL|G|RBN|MNI|RNP|PGE   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | e1202 : Interest Rates | m131 : Money Markets | ntop : Dow Jones/Reuters Top Wire News | ecat : Economic News | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCWASH | FED | MCE | CEN | PLCY | STIR | INT | NEWS | FIN | BNK | STX | DMT | MMT | DBT | FED/CHRONO   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020080122e41m0017h  



 HDFed move doesn't herald coordinated rate cuts      BYBy Sumeet Desai      WC682 words   PD22 January 2008   ET18:00   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited   
   LPLONDON, Jan 22 (Reuters) - Top central banks worked hand in glove to get jammed money markets flowing again, but show no signs of the same teamwork to coordinate a round of global interest rate cuts.   

The U.S. Federal Reserve was forced to cut its main lending rate 75 basis points on Tuesday, a week before its scheduled meeting, to shore up confidence and bring itself more in line with where financial markets thought interest rates should be.   
   TDThe surprise action came after stocks around the globe had tumbled in the last two days as panic and fear over a looming U.S. recession prompted widespread selling whether in Tokyo, Mumbai or London and a feeling that central banks were flailing.   

"There was a sense the Fed was behind the curve and they have taken action to address this," said Russell Jones, chief strategist at  RBC Capital Markets. "In that sense, it is an admission of defeat, or rather misjudgement."   

The  Bank of Canada quickly followed the Fed with an expected interest rate cut but the reduction was only a quarter-point, not the 50 basis points that some investors had hoped for.   

But other central banks are unlikely to follow suit straight away, creating a disconnect between market perception of economic needs and what the authorities are ready to give.   

"Neither the ECB nor the Bank of Japan look ready to change tack," said Jones.   

NOT FOR TURNING   

The ECB has so far stood firm, keeping its benchmark refinancing rate steady at the last meeting on Jan. 10 and warning it would not hesitate to raise rates if needed to head off a wage-price spiral.   

BoJ Governor Toshihiko Fukui was also not for turning on Tuesday, saying that a favourable growth outlook trumped daily market mayhem when setting policy after the central bank left rates unchanged at 0.5 percent.   

"There's so much difference in views between the BOJ and markets over the risks of a slowdown to the global economy and recession," said Takehiro Sato,  Morgan Stanley chief economist in Tokyo.   

In London, the Bank of England quickly pointed out that it had no plans to bring forward its next Monetary Policy Committee meeting, scheduled for Feb. 6-7.   

Expectations are high that it will cut interest rates by another quarter-point then after it disappointed many by holding rates at 5.5 percent this month.   

But concerns about inflation mean the central bank is not about to validate expectations of as many as four interest rate cuts this year.   

"They are going to resist as much as they can," said Bernard Connolly, chief global strategist at Banque AIG, pointing out there would be a temptation for the BoE to want to see the economy rebalance on its own as the housing market slows, consumption brakes and sterling declines.   

The  Swiss National Bank, meanwhile, looks as if it still wants more evidence before cutting rates.   

"We will have our policy assessment in March," SNB board member Thomas Jordan told Swiss television channel SF1 on Monday night. "At the moment there is no reason to change current monetary policy."   

Holger Schmieding, chief European economist at the  Bank of America said he did not expect the ECB or the SNB to move in 2008: "The probability has increased significantly but we are not there yet."   

The rhetoric may soon have to change everywhere though. The Fed action on Tuesday highlighted just how fragile sentiment had become. Some analysts said that without a move, stock prices could have declined another 20 percent.   

If confidence doesn't come back, central banks may soon have no choice.   

"It's going to have to happen whether central bankers like it or not," said Banque AIG's Connolly (additional reporting by Sven Egenter in Zurich, Leika Kihara in Tokyo and Krista Hughes in Frankfurt; editing by Tony Austin)   
   RFMARKETS-CENTRALBANKS/|LANGEN|ABN|C|D|E|M|O|U|MTL|GRO|SOF|OIL|UKI|J|NAT|ABX|BNX|FUN|RNP|DNP|PTD   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | ecbnk : European Central Bank | gpol : Domestic Politics | ntop : Dow Jones/Reuters Top Wire News | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | eec : European Union | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | ncat : Content Types | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations   REeurz : Europe | jap : Japan | uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | weurz : Western Europe | asiaz : Asia | easiaz : Eastern Asia | eecz : European Union Countries | namz : North America   IPCNEWS | BOE | MCE | CEN | INT | FED | ECB | PLCY | POL | SNB | BOJ   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020080122e41m001kz  



 HDANALYSIS-U.S. dollar is down, but not out, as Fed cuts rates      BYBy Steven C. Johnson      WC916 words   PD22 January 2008   ET21:25   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited   
   LPNEW YORK, Jan 22 (Reuters) - The Federal Reserve's biggest emergency interest rate cut in more than two decades took a bite out of the U.S. dollar on Tuesday, but could end up helping both the currency and the U.S. economy rebound as early as this spring.   

The U.S. dollar fell more than 1.0 percent against the euro, the biggest daily decline in at least a year, after the Fed sought to soothe fears of a recession by cutting its benchmark lending rate by 75 basis points to 3.5 percent.   
   TDThe Fed's move pushed U.S. short term interest rates below the euro-zone's for the first time in more than three years, leaving investors with less incentive to buy U.S. debt over European.   

But money managers believe that weakness in the U.S. economy will soon be felt in Europe and Asia, forcing global central banks to follow the Fed with interest rate cuts of their own.   

Alan Wilde, who helps manage a $15 billion portfolio of fixed-income securities at Baring Asset Management in London, said the Fed now appears ahead of the curve and predicts that the European Central Bank will have to follow suit with a rate cut of its own, likely before the end of the second quarter.   

"It seems we're back where we were in the early 2000s when the Fed was seen as proactive and fostering growth while other central banks were blinded to the need for policy easing and pursued tight policy that backfired and hurt long-term growth prospects," he said.   

Wilde said his firm has started reducing its existing bets against the dollar, and will likely change those trades to anticipate strength in the greenback in the months ahead, an opportunity that he said would become even more attractive should the euro hit a new record high of $1.50.   

Paresh Upadhyaya, a portfolio manager at  Putnam Investments in Boston who oversees 30 billion in investments, has a similar view.   

"Now that markets have digested a gloomier global growth scenario with the U.S. in recession, I think market sentiment as shifted so that countries that are implementing pro-growth policies are going to be rewarded with a stronger currency," he said. "You see that with the dollar recently."   

CARRYING THE DOLLAR   

However, investors are expecting more rate cuts at the Fed's regularly scheduled policy meeting on Jan. 30, which could weigh on the dollar in the short run.   

Some analysts say that could make the dollar a funding currency for carry trades, since the Fed's cut makes the dollar the third lowest-yielding currency in the developed world.   

In recent years, investors have used cheaply-borrowed Japanese yen and Swiss francs to fund carry trades that invested in currencies such as the New Zealand or Australian dollars which boast yields of 8.25 percent and 6.75 percent respectively.   

"The last thing the U.S. dollar needs is to be cast as a funding currency but that prospect is upon us," said Alan Ruskin, chief international strategist at RBS Greenwich Capital.   

Even if other central banks are forced to cut interest rates, Ruskin said U.S. rates are likely to remain lower than those in all major economies except Japan.   

ECB IN THE CROSSHAIRS   

So far, the ECB has held its benchmark interest rate at 4.0 percent, and President Jean-Claude Trichet has repeatedly said that inflation remains too high to justify easier eurozone monetary policy.   

Markets of late have also embraced the idea of "decoupling" in which the rise of developing economies in China, India and Brazil have reduced the global economy's dependence on the U.S. business cycle.   

But recent market volatility has put that idea to the test, and a plunge in European and Asian stockmarkts on Monday, while U.S. markets were on holiday, has cast doubt far and wide.   

Futures markets are now pricing in an ECB rate cut around midyear, with Baring's Wilde expecting one by spring.   

"There could be increased frustration with the ECB if they keep rates on hold longer," said Putnam's Upadhyaya. "That could leave the euro vulnerable to the downside, especially if growth numbers start to turn and they really have already."   

The Bank of England is also seen cutting rates next month, while the  Bank of Canada reduced lending rates to 4.0 percent on Tuesday and warned that more easing may be necessary.   

Meanwhile, Japan's 0.5 percent benchmark rate is unlikely to rise amid such global market volatility.   

In the last 24 hours, the dollar was the most bought currency, particularly against the euro, which was sold by hedge funds and large institutional investors,  Citigroup said.   

In the long run, a global economy that struggles should continue to be dollar-positive, as uncertainty prompts investors to favor defensive assets such as U.S. Treasuries and large capitalization stocks at the expense of riskier emerging market assets and commodities.   

"Volatility always signals a change in leadership of financial markets,"  Merrill Lynch chief investment strategist Richard Bernstein said on Tuesday at a Dow Jones Indexes/STOXX briefing in New York.   

(Additional reporting by Nick Olivari and Kevin Plumberg; Editing by Clive McKeef)   
   RFMARKETS-FOREX/DOLLAR (ANALYSIS)|LANGEN|ABN|C|D|E|M|O|U|MTL|GRO|SOF|OIL   NSe1201 : Central Bank Intervention | e52 : Euro Zone/Currency | ecbnk : European Central Bank | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | e1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | eec : European Union | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations   REasiaz : Asia | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | eurz : Europe | uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | weurz : Western Europe | eecz : European Union Countries | namz : North America   IPCFRX | INT | MCE | EUR | CEN | FED | ECB   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020080122e41m001uo  



 HDBank of Japan holds key  interest rate  at 0.5 percent amid worries about US, global economy      BYBy CARL FREIRE      CRAssociated Press Writer   WC375 words   PD22 January 2008   ET19:25   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPTOKYO (AP) - Japan's central bank voted unanimously to leave its benchmark interest rate unchanged at 0.5 percent Tuesday, amid steep drops in global stocks and worries about a U.S. economic slowdown.   

The Bank of Japan's policy-making body voted 9-0 to make no change at the end of a two-day meeting, the bank said in a statement.   
   TDThe decision came just hours before the U.S. Federal Reserve unexpectedly slashed a key interest rate by three-fourths of a percentage point to 3.5 percent on Tuesday, and signaled that further rate cuts were likely.   

The decision by Japan's central bank was widely expected. Japan's benchmark Nikkei 225 index lost 5.65 percent Tuesday after dropping 3.9 percent Monday. Shares in other Asian nations also extended losses for a second straight day.   

Bank of Japan Gov. Toshihiko Fukui said Tuesday that the U.S. subprime-mortgage crisis was having a greater impact than expected on Japan. Fukui said later he did not expect the problems in the U.S. housing market to end anytime soon, adding that the U.S. economy was likely to slow further through the first two quarters of 2008. The U.S. ia a major trading partner of Japan.   

While Japan's economy remains on a path to recovery, the bank must closely watch moves in the U.S. and European financial markets, he said.   

"The probability that Japan's economy will continue to grow remains high," Fukui told reporters. "As for the financial situation in the background, my understanding is that we are entering a delicate phase that calls for making careful judgements about what lies ahead."   

In its monthly economic report, the bank said the nation's economic performance has been weaker than what it forecast in its semiannual report in October, mainly due to a recent drop in housing investment and cautious corporate sentiment.   

But it left unchanged its view of the state of Japan's economy, saying it was expanding moderately as a trend though slowing due to the housing investment decline.   
   RF7   ARTimage image      INibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REjap : Japan | usa : United States | asiaz : Asia | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America   IPCtagdstab | sel9---- | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | Japan Central Bank | D8UB3BCO2   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020080122e41m002qr  



 HDUPDATE 1-Chicago grains rebound after Fed rate cut      WC208 words   PD23 January 2008   ET01:49   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited   
   LP(Adds quote, background)   

SEOUL, Jan 23 (Reuters) - Chicago grain futures rebounded early on Wednesday as a surprise interest rate cut by the U.S. Federal Reserve lifted sentiment, traders said.   
   TDMarch wheat <WH8> in electronic trading on the Chicago Board    


of Trade rose 11-   cents to $9.45-   per bushel by 0146 GMT.
 March soybeans <SH8> gained 9-   cents to $12.49-   per
bushel, while corn <CH8> rose 3-   cents to $4.92-1/2.
   

"This could be a one-time gain but grain prices will have room to regain further if Fed cuts rates again next week," said a trader at an international grain house.   

Increased worries that the U.S. economy was plunging into a recession prompted the U.S. Federal Reserve in an emergency move early Tuesday to slash interest rates by a huge 75 basis points.   

Wall Street expects the Fed to ease interest rates again next week at its scheduled policy meeting.   

Industry experts have said demand for grain from the livestock and biofuel remains strong amid tight supply despite recent profit-taking. (Reporting by Kang Shinhye; Editing by Keiron Henderson)   
   RFMARKETS-GRAINS/ (UPDATE 1)|LANGEN|ABN|C|GRO|MTL|SOF   NSmgrfds : Meals/Feeds Markets | mgroil : Grains/Edible Oils Markets | e1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m14 : Commodity Markets | m141 : Agricultural Commodity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REasiaz : Asia | skorea : South Korea | usa : United States | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America   IPCGRA | MEAL | GRA/   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020080123e41n000b5  



 HDUS copper futures trim early losses on Fed rate cut      WC544 words   PD22 January 2008   ET16:57   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited   
   LPNEW YORK, Jan 22 (Reuters) - U.S. copper futures trimmed their morning losses Tuesday after a surprise interest rate cut by the U.S. Federal Reserve gave a mild boost to the economically sensitive metal, analysts said.   

"The rate cut helps, but does it help enough?" asked Steve Platt, futures analyst with Archer Financial Services in Chicago. "The fear is that we are in a credit crunch, and that means less lending and less borrowing. So, overall, if in fact we are moving toward a recession, the copper over $3.00 (a lb) is probably pricey."   
   TDCopper for March delivery <HGH8> was trading down 8.65 cents, or nearly 2.7 percent, at $3.1480 a lb by 10:40 a.m. EST (1540 GMT) on the New York Mercantile Exchange's COMEX division, rebounding from an overnight low of $3.0120, its lowest since Dec. 21.   

The U.S. Federal Reserve slashed U.S. interest rates by a hefty three-quarters of a percentage point, the biggest rate cut in more than 23 years, in an emergency bid to support to a U.S. economy some fear is on the verge of recession.   

The aggressive Fed action took the key federal funds rate, which governs overnight lending between banks, down to 3.5 percent, its lowest level since September 2005. The Fed also lowered the discount rate it charges on direct loans to banks to 4 percent. [ID:nN22181874]   

The move came amid a massive global stock sell-off triggered by deepening fears that a U.S. recession would drag the rest of the world economy down with it.   

Copper prices trimmed their early losses, but remained down more than 4 percent in mid-morning trade, as risk aversion selling hit U.S. equities, and with them, the metals complex.   

On the fundamental front, copper producers in Zambia trimmed daily output following a second nationwide power failure within 48 hours, and they planned to import 210 megawatts of power from the Democratic Republic of Congo, officials said on Tuesday. [ID:nL22617001]   

Trade data released by the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission on Friday showed the net speculative short position in U.S. copper futures rose 42 percent in the week ended Jan. 15. The CFTC data showed noncommercial investors, or speculators, were net short on 8,815 contracts during the week, compared with 6,197 lots short a week earlier.   

World refined copper consumption exceeded production by 218,000 tonnes between January and October last year, against a surplus of 78,000 tonnes in the same year-ago period, the International Copper Study Group said in a monthly bulletin. [ID:nL21598442]   

London Metal Exchange copper for delivery in three months <MCU3> fell as low as $6,675 a tonne, but managed to bounce slightly to trade at $6,960, up $90 from Monday's close.   

LME copper stockpiles fell by 2,050 tonnes to 178,850 tonnes on Tuesday, while COMEX copper stocks eased 22 short tons to 14,056 short tons as of Friday. (Reporting by Chris Kelly; Editing by Walter Bagley)   
   RFMARKETS-COPPER-COMEX|LANGEN|ABN|C|MTL|GRO|SOF|E|U|RBN|RNP|DNP|PCO|PCM   INimet : Metals/Mining   NSc181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | m15 : Derivative Securities | e1202 : Interest Rates | c18 : Ownership Changes | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter   REmex : Mexico | peru : Peru | usa : United States | camz : Central America | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | lamz : Latin America | namz : North America | samz : South America   IPCMET | DRV | MIN | GOL | MEMI | BMAT | MINE | MTAL | STL | CPX | COP/X   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020080122e41m001h9  



 HDUS copper settle off lows on Fed rate cut optimism      WC622 words   PD22 January 2008   ET20:17   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited   
   LPNEW YORK, Jan 22 (Reuters) - U.S. copper futures ended down but well above session lows on Tuesday after a surprise 75 basis point interest rate cut by the U.S. Federal Reserve lifted sentiment in the economically-sensitive raw material, analysts said.   

"It (copper) is solely trading off of the emergency Fed move," said Frank McGhee, head precious metals trader with Integrated Brokerage Services LLC in Chicago. "It's (Fed rate cut) looking to take a little pressure off of the general liquidation, but copper is probably up at the upper end of its trading range for what I would expect to be for the next week or so."   
   TDCopper for March delivery <HGH8> hit a one-month low of $3.0120 a lb in overnight electronic business before settling down 3.80 cents at $3.1965 a lb in open out-cry trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange's COMEX division.   

Open interest in COMEX copper futures increased by 1,593 lots to 84,796 contracts open as of Jan. 18.   

The U.S. Federal Reserve slashed U.S. interest rates by a hefty three-quarters of a percentage point, the biggest rate cut in more than 23 years, in an emergency bid to lend support to a U.S. economy some fear is on the verge of recession.   

The aggressive Fed action took the key federal funds rate, which governs overnight lending between banks, down to 3.5 percent, its lowest level since September 2005. The Fed also lowered the discount rate it charges on direct loans to banks to 4 percent. [ID:nN22181874]   

The move comes amid a massive global stock sell-off triggered by deepening fears that a U.S. recession would drag the rest of the world economy down with it.   

Steve Platt, futures analyst with Archer Financial Services in Chicago, wondered if Tuesday's Fed action was enough to quell the economy's real problem at hand -- credit.   

"The problem is, are banks lending and people borrowing? A rate cut helps, but does it help enough? The fear is that we are in a credit-crunch and that means less lending and less borrowing. So overall, if in fact we are moving toward a recession, the copper over $3.00 (a lb) is probably pricey."   

On the production front, Zambia's copper producers trimmed daily output following a second nationwide power failure within 48 hours and they planned to import 210 megawatts of power from the Democratic Republic Congo (DRC), officials said on Tuesday.[ID:nL22617001]   

World refined copper consumption exceeded production by 218,000 tonnes between January and October last year, against a surplus of 78,000 tonnes in the same year-ago period, the International Copper Study Group (ICSG) said in its latest monthly bulletin.[ID:nL21598442]   

Meanwhile, trade data released by The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission on Friday showed the net speculative short position in U.S. copper futures rose 42 percent in the week ended Jan. 15.   

Weekly numbers issued by the CFTC showed noncommercial investors, or speculators, were net short on 8,815 contracts during the week, compared with 6,197 lots short a week earlier.   

London Metal Exchange copper for delivery in three months <MCU3> closed up 2.2 percent at $7,020 a tonne from Monday's close.   

LME copper stockpiles declined by 2,050 tonnes to 178,850 tonnes on Tuesday, while COMEX copper stocks eased 22 short tons to 14,056 short tons as of Friday. (Reporting by Chris Kelly; Editing by John Picinich)   
   RFMARKETS-COPPER-COMEX|LANGEN|ABN|C|MTL|GRO|SOF|E|U|RBN|RNP|DNP|PCO|PCM   INimet : Metals/Mining   NSm15 : Derivative Securities | e1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REmex : Mexico | peru : Peru | usa : United States | camz : Central America | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | lamz : Latin America | namz : North America | samz : South America   IPCMET | DRV | MIN | GOL | MEMI | BMAT | MINE | MTAL | STL | CPX | COP/X   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020080122e41m001s6  



 HDFED FOCUS-Emergency rate cut may show the Fed panicked      BYBy Ros Krasny      WC762 words   PD22 January 2008   ET22:01   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited   
   LPCHICAGO, Jan 22 (Reuters) - The Federal Reserve's huge emergency interest rate cut on Tuesday smacked of panic from a central bank spooked by a global markets rout, and may have exposed deep concerns about the health of the U.S. economy.   

Just a week before a scheduled two-day policy meeting, the Fed, the U.S. central bank, slashed rates as a sell-off in global equities extended into a second day and Wall Street looked poised for steep losses after a long holiday weekend.   
   TDThe early-morning strike fueled worries from Fed watchers that the bank is too market-driven and sees itself as behind the curve in shoring up U.S. economic growth.   

But it also may have revealed a view by the Fed that a bold stroke would prove most effective.   

"My God, the Federal Reserve couldn't wait a week for their meeting? These guys are unbelievably reactive," said Jeffrey Gundlach, chief investment officer of TCW Group in Los Angeles, which manages assets worth $160 billion.   

"Clearly they were forced by the markets into this move, which only impairs their credibility," Gundlach said.   

Markets took Tuesday's cut in the Fed's benchmark lending rate, to 3.50 percent from 4.25 percent, as an interim step, with another move likely next week. After the previous four intra-meeting rate cuts since 1994, the Fed has cut rates again at the following monetary policy meeting.   

The Fed's emergency conference call on Monday came as share markets around the globe were enduring a savaging while the U.S. market was closed for the Martin Luther King Jr. holiday.   

The cut was "obviously triggered by a stock market fall, regardless of the statement's talk about 'increasing downside risks to growth,'" said Gabriel Stein, an economist at Lombard Street Research in London.   

By moving abruptly, the Fed took the gamble of exposing the extent of its own concerns about the deterioration in financial markets, and hinting it knows of even worse news waiting in the wings.   

"If you get told you're going into a recession ... there's a self-fulfilling prophecy nature of this, which I think we are at," said Catherine Mann, a former Fed official and a member of the White House Council of Economic Advisers. Mann is now a professor at Brandeis University's business school.   

AIN'T EVER SATISFIED   

Panic aside, the Fed seemed to be embracing theories espoused by Chairman Ben Bernanke about the beneficial impact of surprise rate moves on asset prices.   

In a speech in 2003 when a Fed Board governor, Bernanke cited evidence that easier monetary policy that took markets by surprise has beneficial effects on asset prices.   

"Each basis point of surprise monetary easing leads to about a 5-basis-point increase in the value of stocks," Bernanke said at the time.   

Fed Governor Frederic Mishkin, who was absent for the Monday night vote, has also advocated a policy of larger, preemptive rate moves rather than a more gradualist approach.   

Although a 75-basis-point cut had been widely discussed, by Friday's close options contracts still priced a 43 percent chance that the rate-setting Federal Open Market Committee would lower rates by only 50 basis points this month.   

"Being more assertive when the market needs it is a plus in the action today," said former Fed Governor Susan Bies.   

Upon hearing of the Fed's move, futures traders immediately priced in another big move at the Fed's Jan. 29-30 meeting.   

"Today's decision ... is a declaration of a state of emergency for the U.S. markets and the economy," said Ashraf Laidi, chief FX strategist at CMC Markets US in New York.   

Futures contracts now show a 72 percent implied chance of another 50 basis points in cuts on Jan. 30. Dealers expect the Fed to slash benchmark short-term rates to about 2.25 percent by mid-year, which would bring the total reduction over 10 months to 3 percentage points.   

"The Fed is responding to an economy and financial system going into cardiac arrest. This will require emergency-room-style policy action from the Fed," said Scott Anderson, senior economist at  Wells Fargo in Minneapolis. (With additional reporting by Mark Felsenthal in Washington and Jennifer Ablan in New York; Editing by Frank McGurty)   
   RFMARKETS-SELLOFF/FED (ANALYSIS)|LANGEN|ABN|C|D|E|M|O|U|MTL|GRO|SOF|OIL|J|Z|CANT|UKI|AUF|ABX|BNX   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | e1202 : Interest Rates | m131 : Money Markets | ntop : Dow Jones/Reuters Top Wire News | ecat : Economic News | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCNEWS | WASH | MUNI | DBT | GVD | STIR | MCE | MMT | PLCY | CEN | FED | INT | FIN | EMBG:DBT | EMBG:PLCY | embargokeyE1E1   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020080125e41m0025h  



 HDUPDATE 2-Bank of Korea pressured to ease after Fed cuts      BYBy Chang Tae-min      WC589 words   PD23 January 2008   ET03:34   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited   
   LP(Updates with analysts, markets, background)   

SEOUL, Jan 23 (Reuters) - Falling U.S. interest rates were limiting the Bank of Korea's room to manage its own rates policy, a senior central bank official told Reuters on Wednesday, fanning rate cut speculation and buoying local bond prices.   
   TDUntil recently most analysts had expected the central bank to keep rates on hold for several months after two hikes in 2007, balancing its worries over inflation that might require further tightening with the need for caution due to global market turmoil.   

But market players took Wednesday's remarks as a sign the central bank may now be giving more weight to concerns about growth than prices and may cut rates this year in a first easing since late 2004.   

"The fact that (the Fed) suddenly lowered interest rates means that the situation in the United States is more serious than expected," Jang Byung-wha, head of the Bank of Korea's monetary policy department, said.   

The U.S. Federal Reserve on Tuesday slashed a key interest rate by 75 basis points, the biggest cut in more than 23 years in an emergency move to head off a U.S. recession and halt a global rout in stocks.   

The U.S. benchmark now at 3.5 percent compares with Korea's main rate of 5.0 percent.   

LIMITED ROOM   

When asked if falling U.S. rates were limiting the Bank of Korea's room to manoeuvre on domestic rates, Jang said: "If the other conditions remain the same, it makes sense."   

But he added U.S. rates were not the only factor influencing the Bank of Korea's policy and it would have to consider other factors as well, such as the foreign exchange market situation.   

A Finance Ministry official who declined to be named told Reuters later that at a meeting of financial officials the central bank had said it intended to pursue a flexible monetary policy while taking economic conditions into account.   

The remarks reinforced market perception that growth was now the bank's biggest worry and government bond prices soared, with the key 5-year yield dropping 20 basis points to an 8-month closing low of 5.16 percent.   

Analysts said the widening interest rate gap with the United States could spur capital inflow into South Korea and drive the won up, hurting exports at a time when a U.S. slowdown was already clouding prospects for sales abroad.   

"Mr Jang's comments today were admitting that the BOK can't stay isolated from global trends," said Seo Chul-su, an economist at  Daewoo Securities.

"When the U.S. rate falls below 3 percent, it will be difficult for the BOK to keep its rate at 5 percent due to the won's likely appreciation," he said. He added he now expected the Bank of Korea to cut rates in the second quarter.   

Wall Street analysts predict another U.S. rate cut as early as next week.   

A Reuters poll published on Jan. 8 showed nine out of 11 economists surveyed, including Seo, expected the rate to remain steady at least for six months, and two predicted a rise before the end of March. South Korea's central bank next reviews rates on Feb. 13. (Additional reporting by Lee Shin-hyung, Writing by Yoo Choonsik; Editing by Keiron Henderson and Tomasz Janowski)   
   RFKOREA-ECONOMY/RATES (UPDATE 2)|LANGEN|ABX|BNX|FUN   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m131 : Money Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ntop : Dow Jones/Reuters Top Wire News | ecat : Economic News | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REasiaz : Asia | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | skorea : South Korea | usa : United States | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America   IPCMCE | ECI | CEN | INT | STIR | MMT | DBT | NEWS | GVD | DRV | PLCY   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020080123e41n000bu  



 HDFUND VIEW-Asian fund managers on U.S. rate cut impact      WC642 words   PD23 January 2008   ET08:44   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited   
   LPHONG KONG, Jan 23 (Reuters) - Asian shares rallied on Wednesday after the Federal Reserve's biggest interest rate cut in over two decades, but nagging fears of a U.S. recession prompted many indexes to give up much of their early gains. > Global markets rebound......[ID:nSP281166]   

OSCAR LEUNG, SENIOR INVESTMENT MANAGER WITH ING INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT IN HONG KONG, WHO HELPS MANAGE ABOUT $1 BILLION   
   TD"The Fed's move maybe in the short term can help a bit sentiment-wise. But you can see today's market performance. Investors are still very nervous about the growth prospects.   

"The Fed needs to have further cuts and then we need to see some more economic figures to see whether they're any help to the economy. Now the market thinks the current rate cut is not sufficient enough to prevent the economy from slowing."   

ANTHONY MUH, HEAD OF ASIA PACIFIC FOR AT ASSET MANAGEMENT IN HONG KONG, WHICH MANAGES ABOUT $1 BILLION IN ASIAN EQUITIES.   

"A fed funds rate cut clearly is beneficial, but I think it will be short lived. I think the underlying deteriorating fundamentals have gotten such a head of steam on that it's going to be hard to curtail.   

"The declining earnings environment is going to override these interest rate cuts in the near term. Whilst we've seen a bounce, I think it's been nowhere near as convincing as one would have expected given a 75-basis-point cut.   

"You would have expected markets to bounce a lot more. The bounce today we see as confirmation that investors are still very worried."   

The Hong Kong-based manager said the firm was overweight India and domestic China plays and held both Bharti Airtel and China Mobile . It was also overweight Hong Kong property firms such as  Hang Lung Properties and  Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd .   

He said the firm had just built an overweight position in Taiwan. It was underweight Australian domestic plays and South Korean shares.   

CLEMENT HO, CHIEF INVESTMENT OFFICER WITH HANG SENG INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT IN HONG KONG, WHICH MANAGES ABOUT US$10 BILLION   

"At this juncture, it's premature, it's too early to say that the worst is over ... it all depends on the pace, and also the magnitude, of the rate cuts in the future."   

The Hong Kong-based fund executive said a further cut of 50 basis points would be needed when the Fed meets later this month to boost confidence, and anything less could trigger further stock market falls.   

He said investors in Asia should remain defensive, sticking to more mature markets like Hong Kong and Singapore and shares of infrastructure plays, as well as companies supported by high dividend yields. He declined to name individual stocks.   

BHASKAR LAXMINARAYAN, CHIEF INVESTMENT OFFICER, ASIA FOR SWISS BANK PICTET & CIE IN SINGAPORE   

"I don't think that's the fix-all for markets. It's a reinstatement of the fact that yes, there's a slowdown.   

"That means lower demand for things. That means lower sales or lower margins, and therefore the way we value companies has to be looked at differently.   

"All of that has to first set in before you take the impact of the fact that there's more liquidity available or that the financing costs are a little cheaper."   

The Singapore-based fund executive said investors should still favour defensive stocks with high dividend yields and reliable cash flows. In the near term, he said the safer plays would include Malaysian stocks, as well as the beat up South Korean and Taiwanese markets. He declined to name individual stocks. (Reporting by Jeffrey Hodgson; Editing by Anne Marie Roantree)   
   RFASIA-FUNDS (FUND VIEW)|LANGEN|ABN|M|E|RBN|D|U|C|GRO|MTL|SOF|Z   INicre : Construction/Real Estate   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News   REasiaz : Asia | china : China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | india : India | usa : United States | hkong : Hong Kong | chinaz : Greater China | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | indsubz : Indian Subcontinent | namz : North America | sasiaz : Southern Asia   IPCWLES | TEL | REOP | REA | HOME | TCOM | FINS | REAL | CYCP | CPX   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020080123e41n000p5  



 HDUPDATE 1-China may lift rates despite US cut, official says      BYBy Eadie Chen      WC629 words   PD23 January 2008   ET10:42   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited   
   LP(Adds comments by official, paras 10-11; M Stanley 16-17)   

BEIJING, Jan 23 (Reuters) - The U.S. Federal Reserve's steep interest rate cut has limited China's scope to raise rates further but Beijing would still do so if inflation remains stubbornly high, a central bank official said on Wednesday.   
   TDChinese authorities have expressed worry before that their path of rate rises, part of overall monetary tightening to keep the economy from overheating, could attract unwanted speculative capital inflows as the United States cuts rates.   

"There is no doubt that the room for China to further raise interest rates is getting smaller and smaller," the central bank official told Reuters.   

"But between inflation and hot money, China has already shown its priority is the first one. If consumer prices keep worsening in the future, I think China will brace itself to raise interest rates," he said.   

The official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, ranks highly in the People's  Bank of China but said he had no direct influence on interest rate decisions, which are ultimately made by the State Council, or cabinet.   

Chinese leaders have said that reining in inflation, which hit an 11-year high of 6.9 percent in November, is a priority this year and have drawn on a range of policies, including price controls on some food items, in their battle.   

For months, China and the United States have moved in opposite directions on rates. The Fed has sought to stimulate an economy suffering from a credit crunch, while the People's Bank has tried to absorb the liquidity sloshing about the sizzling Chinese economy.   

The Fed's emergency 75 basis points rate cut on Tuesday, its biggest in two decades, suddenly put benchmark Chinese rates above their American counterparts.   

SPLIT OPINIONS   

The federal funds target rate now stands at 3.5 percent and the market expects a possible further half-point cut next week, while China's one-year deposit rate is 4.14 percent.   

Because the rate gap in favour of China will generate demand for the yuan, especially if the dollar falls, the authorities will try harder to enforce capital controls, the official said.   

"As the dollar/yuan interest spread widens, China will further step up its efforts to block speculative capital inflows," he said.   

Stephen Green, head of China research at Standard Chartered in Shanghai, has forecast that Beijing will raise interest rates four times this year after six increases in 2007.   

He wrote in a note to clients on Wednesday that voices in China calling for no further rate rises would be strengthened by the Fed's decision.   

But Green maintained his forecast, saying Beijing was focused on taming credit growth, which it has achieved so far in large part through administrative controls on commercial banks.   

"For this loan slowdown to be sustainable, bank rates have to rise, especially on the deposit side," he said. "Moreover, we do not believe an additional 100 bps is a significant attraction to trigger significant inflows of foreign exchange."   

By contrast,  Morgan Stanley's China economist, Qing Wang, abandoned his call for two more rate rises in 2008, arguing that the Fed's aggressive cut would bring home to Chinese policymakers the risks facing the U.S. economy.   

"While the authorities will unlikely make any formal announcement to suspend the current round of macro tightening, we expect the officials' policy tone to become less hawkish in the next couple of months and the stance to eventually (and quietly) ease by mid-year," he said in a report.   
   RFCHINA-ECONOMY/RATES (UPDATE 1)|LANGEN|ABN|M|E|RBN|D|Z|ABX|RNP|DNP   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | gpol : Domestic Politics | ntop : Dow Jones/Reuters Top Wire News | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | ncat : Content Types   REasiaz : Asia | china : China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | usa : United States | chinaz : Greater China | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America   IPCMCE | CEN | INT | POL | PLCY | NEWS   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020080123e41n000vy  



 HDLibor falls as broad money market easing continues      WC329 words   PD21 January 2008   ET12:58   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited   
   LPLONDON, Jan 21 (Reuters) - The rate of interest banks charge each other for three-month euro funds fell on Monday to its lowest level since early August, reflecting the continued broad easing of money market stress since the turn of the year. Liquidity injections by the world's top central banks, the passing of year-end cash shortage and expectations for lower interest rates in the United States, Britain and now finally the euro zone have all helped ease tensions in global money markets.   

Three-month euro Libor was fixed lower at 4.38750 percent from 4.40938 percent <EUR3MFSR=> on Friday, according to the British Bankers Association's daily fixing, the lowest since August 8.   
   TDOne-month euro Libor eased slightly to 4.18563 percent from 4.18688 percent <EUR1MFSR=>.   

Euro zone rates have remained stubbornly high but financial markets interpreted remarks from a European Central Bank policymaker last week as a signal interest rates may come down in order to support the region's slowing economic growth.   

Euro zone interest rate futures now expect more than 50 basis points of ECB easing this year from 4 percent currently. Futures at the start of January pointed to the ECB on hold all year.   

Libor one-month dollar rates fell to 3.90250 percent from 3.93438 percent <USD1MFSR=>, dropping nearly 200 basis points from their six-year high set in September. Three-month rates also fell, to 3.84750 percent from 3.89375 percent <USD3MFSR=>.   

Interest rate futures expect the Federal Reserve to cut benchmark rates to below 2.5 percent this year from 4.25 percent currently, starting with 50 or 75 basis points of easing this month.   

Three-month sterling rates fell to a ten-month low of 5.57250 percent <GBP3MFSR=>, and one-month rates also dipped to 5.57875 percent <GBP1MFSR=>.   
   RFMARKETS-LIBOR (URGENT)|LANGEN|ABN|M|D|NAT|UKI|RNP|DNP|PTD   INibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe1102 : Money Supply | e1202 : Interest Rates | m131 : Money Markets | e52 : Euro Zone/Currency | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REeurz : Europe | uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | weurz : Western Europe | eecz : European Union Countries | namz : North America   IPCFRX | DRV | DBT | BNK | FIN | MMT | STIR | MCE | INT   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020080121e41l0010c  



 HDGLOBAL ECONOMY-Fed rushes to the rescue,Europe tries to reassure      BYBy Brian Love      WC892 words   PD22 January 2008   ET13:40   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited   
   LP(updates after Fed cuts U.S. interest rates)   

BRUSSELS, Jan 22 (Reuters) - A shock U.S. interest rate cut failed to halt a stock market rout on Tuesday as fears of a U.S. recession forced policymakers in Europe and Japan to issue rapid reassurances about the health of their economies.   
   TDThe Federal Reserve cut its key interest rate by three-quarters of a percentage point to 3.5 percent, its biggest in more than 23 years. But markets paused only momentarily before the selling wave renewed as investors seem fixated on the idea that the U.S. will drag the world economy down.   

"Incoming information indicates a deepening of the housing contraction as well as some softening in labor markets," the Fed said. Canada's central bank cut too.   

U.S. Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson said he was confident in the resilience of the U.S. and global economies and welcomed the Fed cut as a helpful move.   

"This is very constructive and I think it shows this country and the rest of the world that our central bank is nimble and can move quickly in response to market conditions," Paulson said.   

The White House, rushing to put together a $150 billion stimulus package to prop up an economy ravaged by a housing slump and a mortgage defaults crisis, declined immediate comment on the Fed cut.   

President George W. Bush was set to meet members of Congress later in the day to discuss the economic rescue package.   

Outside North America, politicians and central bankers said the market selloff looked excessive. But they had their work cut out to convince as people like billionaire investor George Soros, who said the world faced a financial crisis worse than any since World War Two.   

The message sounded more strident in Europe than Japan but the common theme was: don't panic.   

"There are no signs of a recession in Germany and that's also the case for Europe," German Chancellor Angela Merkel said.   

In an interview with German TV to be broadcast later, she called Europe an "anchor of stability" in the world.   

France sought to put a possible recession in the United States into perspective, saying Europe trades just as much with other parts of the world, above all with the countries of the euro zone and 27-country European Union.   

"Even if the United States goes into recession ... it's not a tragedy in itself," Economy Minister Christine Lagarde said.   

She and other European finance ministers meeting in Brussels said Europe's economy was fundamentally sound and should in no way be grouped with the U.S. economy, hit by a housing slump and a debt default crisis in the subprime mortgage market. "We feel comfortable with our economic situation at the moment. The economic situation in Europe seems to be uncoupled from the situation in the U.S.," said Luxembourg Prime Minister Jean-Claude Juncker, who chairs meetings of euro zone finance ministers and acts as their chief spokesman.   

TOKYO TRIES IT TOO   

In Tokyo the central bank chief called for people to look beyond short-term market gyrations.   

After the Bank of Japan kept interest rates on hold at its meeting on Tuesday, bank governor Toshihiko Fukui stuck to the line that a favourable long-term growth outlook trumped day-to-day market mayhem when setting rates.   

"Our mid-term review showed that the economy is weaker in the near term than what we had projected in October while consumer prices are higher than forecast," Fukui said.   

"But in next fiscal year (from April) both are expected to be in line with what we had forecast. Thus, we think the most likely scenario remains that the Japanese economy will keep expanding gradually under price stability," he said.   

While the Europeans and Japanese were speaking, shares from Sydney to London sank, dragging commodity prices with them as investors dumped assets exposed to the risk of a global economic slowdown.   

U.S. stocks, untraded on Monday when markets fell in other regions, slid sharply on Tuesday.   

The routine meeting of finance ministers in Brussels was attended by European Central Bank President Jean-Claude Trichet and International Monetary Fund boss Dominique Strauss-Kahn.   

Trichet offered no comment but ECB executive board member Juergen Stark echoed calls for composure. "The markets are very nervous. They get new information every day and are very sensitive to it, perhaps excessively so," Stark told Germany's Deutschlandfunk radio.   

"This high volatility that we see is certainly not helpful but on the other hand, one should not exaggerate events."   

Despite Europe's message that it was no longer so reliant on the U.S. as a buyer of its goods the notion that the rest of the world has "decoupled" from the largest economy is not universally shared.   

China's central bank last Sunday poured cold water on the idea that the country's economy can decouple from the United States.   

China's exports would be badly hit if U.S. consumption slid, Zhang Tao, deputy head of the international department of the People's Bank of China, told a financial forum.   
   RFECONOMY-GLOBAL/ (WRAPUP 2, TV/PIX)|LANGEN|AFA|CSA|LBY|RWSA|RWS|REULB|GNS|ABX|BNX|FUN|RNA|SXNA   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020080122e41m0011q  



 HDUPDATE 4-Toronto stocks soar 500 points after rate cuts      BYBy Leah Schnurr      WC695 words   PD22 January 2008   ET15:53   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited   
   LP(Adds details, quotes)   

TORONTO, Jan 22 (Reuters) - The Toronto Stock Exchange's main index surged more than 500 points on Tuesday, ending a five-day plunge, after Canada and the United States cut interest rates to calm worries over the global economic outlook.   
   TDIn a broad-based advance led by the materials, energy and financial sectors, the index regained more than two-thirds of Monday's 604-point loss as investors took advantage of beaten-down prices.   

But the index was still at a level not seen in a year after a nosedive sparked by intensifying fears over the prospect of a U.S. recession and what that could mean for global growth.   

An emergency interest rate of 75 basis points cut by the U.S. Federal Reserve on Tuesday, closely followed by a cut of 25 basis points from the  Bank of Canada, gave the Toronto benchmark the boost it needed to climb out of a five-session rout.   

"Definitely the Fed's emergency rate cut of 75 basis points has proved to be shot in the arm for global markets and investor sentiment," said Elvis Picardo, investment strategist at  Northern Securities Inc., in Vancouver, British Columbia.   

"But the markets still are quite choppy, there's a lot of nervousness out there and I think the only thing one can predict is the volatility will continue for the foreseeable future."   

The S&P/TSX composite index <.GSPTSE> closed up 508.76 points, or 4.19 percent, at 12,640.89 with all of its 10 sectors on the upside.   

The index got big boosts from  Fairfax Financial Holdings , which rose C$10.75, or 3.8 percent, to C$296.40, and from Research In Motion , which was up C$8.78, or 10.4 percent, at C$93.28.   

The materials sector gained 8.4 percent, while its gold producers subsector was up 7.5 percent. Barrick Gold was up C$4.78, or 10.3 percent, at C$51.25, while Kinross Gold rose C$3.01, or 15.3 percent, to C$22.67.   

The energy and financials sectors added 2.8 percent and 3.7 percent respectively.  Petro-Canada moved up 75 Canadian cents, or 1.6 percent, to C$46.90, and  Bank of Montreal rose C$2.24, or 4.4 percent, to C$53.64.   

While the market applauded the Fed's move, how effective it will turn out to be in the long-term remains to be seen, said Adrian Mastracci, portfolio manager and president at KCM Wealth Management Inc., in Vancouver.   

"I think we haven't really addressed the big problem yet, and the big problem is all these multibillion-dollar losses (in the banking industry)," Mastracci said.   

The freefall that began last Tuesday knocked 1,566.15 points, or 11.4 percent, off the index. The dive was capped by Monday's 604-point plunge, the biggest one day drop in more than seven years.   

Despite Tuesday's advance, the index was still below its 2007 starting point and remained in a technical correction at more than 13 percent off its peak.   

The index has moved downwards since the beginning of November amid jitters over the prospect of a U.S. recession and massive writedown from banks due to exposure to the faltering subprime mortgage market.   

Market volume was 545 million shares worth C$11 billion. Advancers outpaced decliners 1,079 to 644. The blue chip S&P/TSX 60 index <.TSE60> closed 32.56 points, or 4.58 percent, higher at 743.07.   

In New York, stocks were lower after taking a holiday on Monday, but the decline was cushioned by the interest rate cut.   

The Dow Jones industrial average <.DJI> ended down 128.11 points, or 1.06 percent, at 11,971.19, and the Nasdaq Composite Index <.IXIC> fell 47.75 points, or 2.04 percent, to 2,292.27.   

($1=$1.03 Canadian)   
   RFMARKETS-CANADA-STOCKS (UPDATE 4)|LANGEN|ABN|E|U|RBN|CANT|C|MTL|O|OIL|RNP|DNP|PCO|PEN   INimet : Metals/Mining   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News   REcana : Canada | usa : United States | namz : North America   IPCSTX | ENR | MF | MET | GOL | GDM | CRU | NGS | .TO   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020080122e41m001cc  



 HDANALYSIS-No quick cure for what ails U.S., global economies      BYBy Emily Kaiser      WC814 words   PD22 January 2008   ET18:56   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited   
   LPWASHINGTON, Jan 22 (Reuters) - There is no quick cure for what ails the U.S. and global economies, but if the Federal Reserve's emergency interest rate cut on Tuesday can instill some confidence among consumers, companies and investors, it may speed a recovery.   

Interest rate reductions take time to work, and they cannot undo the damage inflicted by the tumbling U.S. housing market and subsequent credit contraction that has curbed the flow of cash to households and businesses, pushing the U.S. economy to the brink of a recession.   
   TDFor volatile world financial markets, the best hope is that the Fed's efforts, coupled with a $150 billion fiscal stimulus plan that President George W. Bush is planning, can coax cautious consumers and companies back to normalcy and shorten any U.S. downturn, limiting the strain on the global economy.   

Rate cuts and stimulus "won't avert a recession but will probably make it a much milder recession than it otherwise might have been," said Nariman Behravesh, chief economist at Global Insight in Lexington, Massachusetts.   

"There's a huge (market) confidence factor at play. The worry is that it spills over to consumers and businesses. That is what the Fed and the president are trying to avoid. They don't want consumers to suddenly stop spending. They don't want businesses to retreat back into their shells."   

In cutting the benchmark fed funds rate by three-quarters of a percentage point to 3.5 percent on Tuesday -- the biggest drop in the overnight interbank lending rate in more than 23 years -- the Fed highlighted its concern that credit conditions have tightened for households and businesses.   

That is what is shaking the U.S. economic foundation and raising the specter of a recession. Consumer spending accounts for about 70 percent of U.S. economic activity, while companies hold the key to the all-important job market.   

When those pillars fall, the U.S. economy invariable tanks, taking much of the world down with it. Both pillars have begun to wobble, as evidenced by a drop in December retail sales and a surprisingly weak employment report, and no amount of rate cuts can instantly steady them.   

"The Fed can't make borrowers borrow and lenders lend," Peter Raskind, chief executive officer of  National City Corp in Cleveland, told Reuters.   

FEAR ITSELF   

What the Fed can do is lower borrowing costs for banks and hope they will pass that along to consumers and businesses. It also can underscore its willingness to cut rates further, a stance that appeared to restore at least some confidence on Wall Street.   

The confidence crisis among investors was plain to see as world financial markets sank on Monday and Tuesday.   

European stock markets reversed direction and turned higher after the Fed's emergency rate cut. In the United States, the Standard & Poor's 500 index <.SPX> was off 1.5 percent at midday, although futures prices had indicated a much steeper fall before the Fed acted.   

The stock market's slide in recent weeks started to infect consumer confidence as households watched their nest eggs go up in smoke. Many Americans have relied on capital gains -- whether from rising home or stock prices -- as the cornerstone of their retirement plans. The U.S. savings rate turned negative in November.   

A Reuters/Zogby poll last week showed that nearly half of Americans expect a recession in the next year. In Japan, consumer confidence has fallen to a 4-1/2 year low, and German investor sentiment hit a 15-year low in January.   

When consumers feel gloomy, they curb discretionary spending, setting off a dangerous cycle in which businesses retrench because of slowing demand, jobs are cut and consumers feel even gloomier.   

With credit in short supply, the confidence troubles are magnified for both households and businesses, which explains the Fed's aggressive move.   

The  Bank of Canada also lowered interest rates at its regularly scheduled meeting on Tuesday, and investors expect the Bank of England to do the same next month. That leaves the European Central Bank under growing pressure to set aside its inflation concerns and ease as well.   

"The UK markets should now be looking to a February Bank of England cut and implied lean toward much lower rates later in the year," said David Brown, chief European economist at  Bear Stearns in London. "Set against this sort of G7 backdrop, the ECB's actions are conspicuous by their absence," he said, referring to the Group of Seven rich industrial nations. (Additional reporting by Jonathan Stempel in New York; Editing by Dan Grebler)   
   RFMARKETS-SELLOFF/ECONOMY (ANALYSIS)|LANGEN|ABN|C|D|E|M|O|U|MTL|GRO|SOF|OIL|G|RBN|ABX|BNX|AFA|CSA|LBY|RWSA|RWS|REULB|GNS   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecbnk : European Central Bank | ecat : Economic News | eec : European Union | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations   REcana : Canada | uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe   IPCWASH | FED | CEN | MCE | PLCY | STIR | INT | ECB | BOE | BNK | FIN | DBT | EMBG:DBT | EMBG:PLCY | embargokeyE1R1:1   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020080122e41m001o8  



 HDCanadian dollar climbs on rate cuts, bonds fall      BYBy John McCrank      WC602 words   PD22 January 2008   ET23:37   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited   
   LPTORONTO, Jan 22 (Reuters) - The Canadian dollar rose against the U.S. dollar on Tuesday, after an emergency interest rate cut by the U.S. Federal Reserve, followed by a smaller cut by the  Bank of Canada, put the interest rate spread in Canada's favor and eased fears about the U.S. economic slowdown.   

Domestic bond prices fell after the  Bank of Canada delivered a smaller cut than many expected and as investors looked towards the rallying Toronto Stock Exchange.   
   TDThe Canadian unit closed at C$1.0281 to the U.S. dollar, or 97.27 U.S. cents, up from C$1.0329 to the U.S. dollar, or 96.81 U.S. cents at Monday's close.   

The Canadian dollar, which had fallen as low as C$1.0369 to the U.S. dollar, or 96.44 U.S. cents, climbed as high as C$1.0208 to the U.S. dollar, or 97.96 U.S. cents, after the central bank announcements.   

The Fed started the ball rolling with a 75-basis-point emergency cut to the fed funds rate to 3.50 percent.   

That sent the Canadian dollar lower as many analysts expected a similarly aggressive cut, of 50 basis points, by the  Bank of Canada at its scheduled monetary policy announcement.   

However, the  Bank of Canada eased its key lending rate by just 25 basis points, to 4.00 percent, sending the currency higher on the rate differential.   

Equity markets reacted favorably to the economic stimulus, with the Dow Jones Industrial average erasing much of its earlier losses, and the TSX soaring more than 500 points.   

That furthered the bid for the Canadian dollar.   

One of the drags on the currency as of late has come from fears that a global economic slowdown would cut demand for the commodities that Canada produces.   

"Right now a lot of people are using equity markets as a barometer on the economy, especially in the context of the fallout from the subprime mortgage mess and just a general contraction in liquidity and the availability of credit," said George Davis, chief technical strategist at  RBC Capital Markets.

"If we can see equity markets stabilize and rally a little bit, similar to what we saw today, then I think over the short term that would be beneficial to the Canadian dollar."   

BONDS FALL   

Canadian bond prices handed back all of their early gains as equities rallied and the  Bank of Canada rate cut fell short of the 50-basis-point cut that some market players expected.   

The increase of 0.7 percent in Canadian retail sales in November, also released on Tuesday, had no impact on the markets although the result was better than the 0.2 percent gain expected by economists.   

The two-year bond was down 2 Canadian cents at C$102.04 to yield 3.105 percent. The 10-year bond dropped 40 Canadian cents to C$101.59 to yield 3.796 percent.   

The yield spread between the two-year and 10-year bond was 69.1 basis points, up from 65.2 points at the previous close.   

The 30-year bond decreased C$1.26 to C$114.64 to yield 4.134 percent. In the United States, the 30-year Treasury yielded 4.198 percent.   

The three-month when-issued T-bill yielded 3.45 percent, unchanged from the previous close.   

(Editing by Renato Andrade)   
   RFMARKETS-CANADA-DOLLAR-BONDS|LANGEN|Table|ABN|E|U|RBN|CANT|D|ABX|BNX|RNP|DNP|PCO   NSm12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m131 : Money Markets | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | e1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REcana : Canada | usa : United States | caon : Ontario | namz : North America   IPCFRX | DBT | GVD | MMT | CAD/ | CA/ | EMBG:DBT | EMBG:CAD/ | EMBG:CA/ | embargokeyE2E2   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020080125e41m002c2  



 HDNorway c.bank to hold rates, unswayed by Fed cut      BYBy John Acher      WC583 words   PD23 January 2008   ET09:42   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited   
   LPOSLO, Jan 23 (Reuters) - Norway's central bank began a policy-setting meeting on Wednesday and was widely expected by economists to keep its main interest rate steady at 5.25 percent despite Tuesday's hefty rate cut by the U.S. Federal Reserve.   

Economists said the Norwegian economy remains in boom mode, and domestic factors would warrant a rate rise, but the hand of  Norges Bank would be stayed by turmoil in international markets.   
   TDThe bank's executive board will announce its rate decision at 1300 GMT and hold a news conference at 1345 GMT.   

"There is no close connection between interest rates in the United States and in Norway because the economy is not similar at all," First Securities chief economist Harald Magnus Andreassen said, predicting no change in Norway's rate.   

"The U.S. economy may already be headed into recession, whereas in Norway unemployment is falling sharply and wage inflation is picking up, so domestic factors are clearly in favour of hiking rates," Andreassen said.   

All 11 economists in a Reuters poll last week forecast no change in rates at this meeting. Six out of six who were reached by Reuters on Tuesday after the Fed slashed its key rate by 75 basis points to 3.5 percent said they still expected no change.   

"We don't see any direct link between rates in the United States and in Norway," said  DnB NOR senior analyst Kyrre Aamdal.   

"The connection is more through the foreign exchange market, and the euro-crown exchange rate has a larger effect on interest rates (than dollar-crown), and the difference in rates to Europe is more important than the difference to the U.S." Aamdal said.   

Aamdal said that economic data pointed to one more interest rate rise in Norway but added: "The global slowdown and decline in rates in Europe and the U.S. is a drag on the upside."   

RATES PEAKING   

Aamdal predicted  Norges Bank, which has signalled a 50 percent likelihood of another rate increase in mid-2008 to 5.50 percent, will stick to the signals given earlier and not indicate any change in its rate path at this meeting.   

"The signal so far is that they should sit and wait and see how the road is developing -- in March it will be time for a new analysis," Aamdal said, noting that in March the bank will produce a new Monetary Policy Report, a key policy-setting tool.   

Andreassen said the bank might signal a lower likelihood of another rate increase in its statement on Wednesday.   

Market interest rates <NOKFRA> are pricing in nearly two Norwegian rate cuts by the end of 2008, which economists said makes sense if one assumes the European Central Bank will cut further and the international economic environment remain weak.   

That could also prompt  Norges Bank -- which has raised rates 14 times from an all-time low of 1.75 percent in mid-2005 -- to follow suit and begin cutting later this year, Aamdal said.   

"It depends on when the ECB cuts rates," Aamdal said. "If they do that in the third quarter, as priced into the market, then the Norwegian bank should follow that by the end of Q3 maybe -- but it depends on the outlook for macroeconomic development." (Reporting by John Acher; editing by Tony Austin)   
   RFNORWAY-CBANK/MEETING|LANGEN|DA|FN|NW|SW|ABN|M|D   CObknorw : Norges Bank   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSm131 : Money Markets | e1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REeurz : Europe | norw : Norway | usa : United States | weurz : Western Europe | namz : North America | nordz : Nordic Countries | scandz : Scandinavia   IPCCEN | MCE | INT | DBT | MMT | EMBG:DBT | embargokeyE1   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020080126e41n0008v  



 HDEURO CORP-Credit spreads tighten, interest rates in focus      BYBy Maya Thatcher      WC383 words   PD23 January 2008   ET10:43   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited   
   LP LONDON, Jan 23 (Reuters) - European credit spreads continued to tighten on Wednesday, helped by a recovery in Asian stocks after Tuesday's surprise 75 basis point cut in U.S. interest rates.   
   TD But a trader said there was still concern that it would take more than rate cuts to stabilise recent market volatility.   

 "We're far from being over with this mayhem," the trader said. "The Fed has fewer cuts to do in the future because they're already done at 3.5 percent. Maybe they could cut two or three more times. But what after that if we still haven't recovered?"   

 By 0914 GMT, the Markit iTraxx Crossover index <ITCRS5EA=GFI>, made up of 50 mostly "junk"-rated credits, was at 470 basis points, according to Markit data, 12 basis points tighter than late on Tuesday.   

 The investment-grade iTraxx Europe index <ITRAC5EA=GFI> was 3.75 basis points tighter at 78.25 basis points. The trader said an early morning rally that saw the Europe index fall to 74 basis points was triggered by speculation of an interest rate cut by the European Central Bank (ECB).   

 Credit strategists at  BNP Paribas said in a note to clients that, "the ECB will most likely wait and see what the reaction is. If the Fed's move does prove temporary in terms of raising confidence and stalling the large declines across the equity markets, then the ECB will be forced to cut, too."   

 The strategists added that they expect the U.S. Federal Reserve to reduce rates by at least 25 basis points at the end of the month.   

 "Given expectations for (an) additional ease, the Fed is very unlikely to disappoint markets next week and risk reversing any of the benefits achieved yesterday," they said.   

 In underlying government bond markets, the yield on the interest rate sensitive two-year Schatz <EU2YT=RR> was 3.317 percent, 9.7 basis points lower on the day. The 10-year Bund <EU10YT=RR> yielded 3.938 percent, down 4.2 basis points.   

 The 10-year euro swap rate <EURAB6L10Y=> was 4.351 percent.  (Reporting by Maya Thatcher, editing by Will Waterman)                                 
   RFMARKETS-BONDS-EUROCORP|LANGEN|ABN|D|E|RBN   NSc181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | m15 : Derivative Securities | e1202 : Interest Rates | c18 : Ownership Changes | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter   REeurz : Europe | usa : United States | weurz : Western Europe | namz : North America   IPCDBT | EUB | USC | CDV | ABS | IGD | HYD | MRG | EUB/ | EMBG:DBT | embargokeyE1   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020080126e41n0009i  



 HDANALYSIS-Mortgage refinancings spike after Fed cut   BYBy Al Yoon and Julie Haviv      WC898 words   PD23 January 2008   ET22:28   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited   
   LPNEW YORK, Jan 23 (Reuters) - In one of the first signs of life in a battered mortgage market, homeowners are lining up to capitalize on this week's plunge in interest rates, which made an additional $1 trillion in loans attractive for refinancing.

Fears of a U.S. recession and an emergency Federal Reserve interest rate cut pushed rates near record lows this week, dropping benchmark 10-year Treasury note yields to as low as 3.30 percent on Wednesday from 3.70 percent a week ago <US10YT=RR> .
   TDThat increased the amount of mortgages eligible for refinancing by around 50 percent to more than $3 trillion, based on estimates using Bear Stearns & Co data.

Homeowners with a $250,000 loan paying 6 percent interest today could save at least $1,200 annually by refinancing to today's fixed rates at 5-3/8 percent, according to rates cited on Wednesday by Web site Refinance.com. Wells Fargo & Co offered a rate of 5-1/8 percent, with 1 percent of the loan paid upfront, according to an automated e-mail.

Most of the fixed-rate mortgages outstanding carry interest between 6 percent and 6.5 percent, so prospective savings have created feverish borrower activity.

"There is pandemonium right now at the mortgage banks," said Bob Walters, chief economist at Quicken Loans, an online mortgage lender in Livonia, Michigan. "They are knee-deep in telephone calls" from customers seeking better rates, he said.

The average 30-year fixed mortgage rate at 5.49 percent as of Friday was its lowest since June 2005, the Mortgage Bankers Association said on Wednesday. The rate has plunged 0.69 percentage point since mid-November.

Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke's emergency 0.75 percentage point cut in the U.S. central bank's target interest rate on Tuesday is seen as a move to save an economy on the verge of a recession, and provide a much-needed exit for borrowers with mortgages facing the shock of rate adjustments.

Risky subprime borrowers may benefit, but probably less so since lenders burned by mortgage losses have tightened their purse strings in recent months and have instated tight lending rules.

Quicken Loans saw a 50 percent pickup in loan applications after the Fed rate cut, Walters said. At LendingTree.com, daily refinance inquiries soared 230 percent to their highest ever, a spokeswoman said.

Refinancings "are one of the few areas where the rate cut has an immediate effect on the economy," said Nicholas Bratsafolis, chief executive officer of Refinance.com, an online lender that saw its applications double this week.

Applications for refinancings before the rate cut had already risen by 92 percent since early November, the Mortgage Bankers Association said on Wednesday. The increase was due to lower rates and the multiple applications made by borrowers expecting to be turned down by one or more lenders.

A loan is conforming if it's eligible for purchase by government-sponsored enterprises Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, which still garner investor support because they guarantee principal and interest payments on mortgage-backed securities they issue. Among requirements, loans must be $417,000 or less and carry mortgage insurance if the borrower has less than 20 percent equity in the home.

Creditworthy borrowers with adjustable-rate mortgages may be the biggest winners, with the fresh opportunity to escape the $165 billion in prime loans whose payments are slated to rise this year. Those borrowers have been among the most active on LendingTree.com, said C.D. Davies, chief executive officer of the online lender.

For all the hoopla, refinancings will fall short of the record wave of 2003 when 30-year rates hovered around current levels, or as low as 4.99 percent, analysts said.

The mortgage market, totaling more than $10 trillion, is still loaded with loans that will not qualify for refinancing or whose rates do not justify getting a new loan.

Jumbo rates remain stubbornly high at about 0.8 percentage point above conforming loan rates -- compared with about 0.15 point during boom years -- since jittery investors have cut off an important source of funding for lenders.

Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac themselves have raised costs passed on to borrowers as they reassess their risk-taking. Falling home prices across the nation have eroded home equity, reducing the temptation to apply for "cash-out" refinancings.

Many subprime borrowers with adjustable rate loans will not qualify for any loan unless they have improved their credit. One hope for those homeowners are loans backed by the Federal Housing Administration (FHA) that require just 3 percent equity, Bratsafolis said.

Perversely, the impetus for lower rates may even result in a worsening of the housing crisis, analysts said. A recession would cause businesses to tighten up on credit for those who need it most, including subprime borrowers with $370 billion in mortgages slated for rate resets this year, the analysts said.

"This time around it's more skewed to people with decent credit and some down payment and equity in homes," said Quicken's Walters. "People with poor credit will probably not be able to take advantage." (Editing by Jonathan Oatis) 
   RFUSA-HOUSING-REFINANCING (ANALYSIS)|LANGEN|ABN|D|E|RBN|U|M|C|GRO|MTL|SOF|O|OIL   CObsacoi : Bear Stearns & Co. Inc. | berstn : The Bear Stearns Companies LLC | nwbc : Wells Fargo & Company | cnyc : JPMorgan Chase & Co.   INibnk : Banking/Credit | i814 : Banking | i831 : Financial Investments | i83101 : Investment Banking | iinv : Investing/Securities | i81402 : Commercial Banking   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | cmabs : Mortgage Backed Securities | c173 : Financing Agreements | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | c17 : Funding/Capital | c172 : Corporate Debt Instruments | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCMTG | DBT | ABS | REA | REAM | DRV | FIN | BNK | STIR | MCE | BANK | BSVC | FINS | COFS | CPX | EMBG:DBT | embargokeyE1E1   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020080126e41n000l1  



 HDTREASURIES-Yield on 10-year falls to lowest since 2003      BYBy Richard Leong      WC503 words   PD23 January 2008   ET14:03   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited   
   LP(Updates market action, adds quote)   

NEW YORK, Jan 23 (Reuters) - U.S. government debt prices jumped and the yield on the 10-year note dropped to its lowest since June 2003 on Wednesday as investors feared an emergency U.S. interest rate cut would fail to prop up growth.   
   TDEquity markets resumed their sell-off, adding to the appeal of bonds, as the positive jolt from the Federal Reserve's surprisingly bold 75-basis-point cut faded. Attention again turned to fears of a U.S. recession and its global repercussions, plus speculation of European bank write-downs stemming from subprime losses, traders said.   

"There is general safe-haven buying. You have to wait to see what the equity market is doing," said Thomas di Galoma, head of Treasury trading at Jefferies & Co. in New York.   

U.S. stock futures pointed to a lower opening with the March Standard & Poor's 500 contract <SPc1> down 17.40 points. In overseas trading, European stocks were down more than 2 percent. See [.N]   

Further losses in many international stocks triggered a fresh wave of buying into U.S. Treasuries, sending the yield on two-year notes <US2YT=RR> below 2 percent to levels not seen for nearly four years.   

Benchmark 10-year note <US10YT=RR> was up 21/32 in price for a 3.34 percent yield, down 7 basis points from late Tuesday. Bond yields and prices move inversely.   

While skittish investors have been flocking into Treasuries to shelter their money, aggressive traders are betting that the Fed would further slash the key federal funds target rate in the coming months to forestall a severe economic downturn.   

In addition to more Fed rate cuts, U.S. lawmakers and President George W. Bush have been scrambling to piece together an economic stimulus package worth about $150 billion.   

U.S. interest rate futures implied traders fully anticipate the Fed would lower the target rate on surplus reserves between banks by half a percentage point to 3.00 percent at its Jan. 29-30 policy meeting.   

In a Reuters poll conducted shortly after the Fed's intermeeting rate cut, its first since the Sept. 11, 2001 attack, most Wall Street economists forecast the Fed's policy target rate would fall to the low-to-mid 2 percent range by the middle of 2008. For more details, see [ID:nN22545772]   

While traders debated the effectiveness of the Fed opening the monetary spigot, the recent decline in the Treasury yields seemed to be helping distressed homeowners seeking to refinance before their mortgage rates will reset higher.   

The Mortgage Bankers Association said on Wednesday its index on mortgage refinancing activity jumped 16.9 percent last week to its highest level in nearly four years. See [ID:nN22559412] (Reporting by Richard Leong; Editing by Tom Hals)   
   RFMARKETS-BONDS (UPDATE 1)|LANGEN|ABN|E|RBN|D|U|M|MNI|J|UKI|AUF|RNP|DNP   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | m131 : Money Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ntop : Dow Jones/Reuters Top Wire News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCDBT | GVD | MUNI | INT | MCE | STIR | MMT | NEWS | US/ | US/N | EMBG:DBT | embargokeyE1R1:1   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020080123e41n001bp  



 HDDAVOS-OECD's Gurria lauds Fed move, says ECB analysis shifting      BYBy Mike Dolan      WC472 words   PD23 January 2008   ET14:08   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited   
   LPDAVOS, Switzerland, Jan 23 (Reuters) - The U.S. Federal Reserve's biggest interest rate cut in more than 20 years this week showed great leadership and other central banks may have to re-examine their view of the economic risks, OECD chief Angel Gurria said on Wednesday.   

Gurria, who is Secretary General of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, told Reuters that Tuesday's Fed rate cut was "a question of confidence and a question of leadership".   
   TD"This gives credibility to the fiscal package (of tax cuts) in the United States and covers the short term while households wait for their cheques," Gurria said in an interview on the sidelines of the World Economic Forum in Davos. "The whole package amounts to something real and credible from the world's biggest economy."   

Gurria would not be drawn on whether the OECD expects a recession in the United States this year but he said U.S. growth was probably very low or flat now. "The reaction of the Fed itself suggests they saw something in their most recent information and that points to a fairly serious threat," he added.   

The Fed cut its key interest rate by three quarters of a percentage point on Tuesday following steep losses on global equity markets over the previous week.   

Gurria said the situation for other central banks such as the European Central Bank and the Bank of England was less acute than in the United States and their mandates were different.   

"In Europe, it's less obvious, less acute and you have a more complex burden on the shoulders of policymakers," said Gurria. But there was a "shift in the criteria" being looked at by European authorities, less focused solely on inflation than on the risks to growth, he said.   

"Europe is less vulnerable than the United States to the subprime housing problem, but it is just as vulnerable to a systemic drop in confidence," said Gurria, adding that aggravating inflation worries from oil and food prices were likely to ebb.   

Separately, the OECD chief said he welcomed the investment in Western banks and companies from so-called Sovereign Wealth Funds from mostly developing countries looking to recycle windfall export-led or commodity-led wealth.   

He said there was no evidence to suggest investments to date were anything but transparent and commercially oriented and it was up to Western regulators to monitor this like they would any other investments.   

For full coverage, blogs and TV from Davos see:   http://uk.reuters.com/news/globalcoverage/worldeconomicforum2008  

(Reporting by Mike Dolan; editing by David Stamp)   
   RFDAVOS/OECD (INTERVIEW)|LANGEN|ABN|C|D|E|M|O|U|MTL|GRO|SOF|OIL|UKI|J|NAT|ABX|BNX|FUN|G|RBN|GFN|GBN   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | ecbnk : European Central Bank | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | eec : European Union | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations   REeurz : Europe | fra : France | switz : Switzerland | usa : United States | weurz : Western Europe | eecz : European Union Countries | medz : Mediterranean | namz : North America   IPCFED | ECB | PLCY | MCE | INT | BNK | FIN | FUND | GVD | DBT | EMBG:DBT | EMBG:PLCY | embargokeyE1E1E1E1E1R1:1   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020080123e41n001bz  



 HDDollar Libor falls as mkt turmoil fuels US rate cut hopes      WC383 words   PD22 January 2008   ET13:06   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited   
   LPLONDON, Jan 22 (Reuters) - The rate of interest banks charge each other for borrowing dollar funds fell on Tuesday as the rout in global stocks and broad financial market turmoil fueled speculation the U.S. central bank will cut interest rates.   

"Libors are moving lower in expectation of lower rates, but will get another kick if official rates are moved lower," said a money market trader in Dublin.   
   TD"Aggressive (Fed) action is needed."   

Libor one-month dollar rates fell to 3.77375 percent from 3.90250 percent <USD1MFSR=> on Monday, according to the British Bankers Association's daily fixing, and three-month rates fell to 3.71750 percent from 3.84750 percent <USD3MFSR=>.   

Interest rate futures expect the Federal Reserve to slash benchmark rates to below 2.5 percent this year from 4.25 percent currently, starting with 75 basis points of easing this month, perhaps even before the U.S. stock market open on Tuesday.   

U.S. equities are called to open around 480 points or 4 percent lower <DJc1>, although European stocks have pared earlier heavy losses.   

Three-month euro Libor was fixed lower at 4.33 percent from 4.38750 percent <EUR3MFSR=> on Monday, the lowest since August 7.   

One-month euro Libor eased slightly to 4.17 percent from 4.18563 percent <EUR1MFSR=>.   

Euro zone rates have remained stubbornly high but financial markets interpreted remarks from a European Central Bank policymaker last week as a signal interest rates may come down in order to support the region's slowing economic growth.   

Euro zone interest rate futures now expect around 75 basis points of ECB easing this year from 4 percent currently. Futures at the start of January pointed to the ECB on hold all year.   

Three-month sterling rates fell to a ten-month low of 5.52750 percent <GBP3MFSR=>, and one-month rates also dipped to 5.52875 percent <GBP1MFSR=>. Liquidity injections by the world's top central banks, the passing of year-end cash shortage and expectations for lower interest rates in the United States, Britain and now finally the euro zone have all helped ease tensions in global money markets.   
   RFMARKETS-LIBOR (URGENT)|LANGEN|ABN|M|D|NAT|UKI|RNP|DNP|PTD   INibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | m131 : Money Markets | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REeurz : Europe | uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | weurz : Western Europe | eecz : European Union Countries | namz : North America   IPCFRX | DRV | DBT | BNK | FIN | MMT | STIR | MCE | INT   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020080122e41m000zh  



 HDBear Stearns upgrades national banking sector to "Market Overweight" after Fed cuts rates      WC373 words   PD23 January 2008   ET18:35   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPNEW YORK (AP) - Shares of national banks traded higher Wednesday a day after the Federal Reserve Board cut a key interest rate three-quarters of a percentage point.   

Shares of  Wells Fargo & Co. were gained the most Wednesday afternoon, rising $2.06, or 7.6 percent, to $29.01.   
   TDThe Federal Reserve cut the federal funds rate, the rate banks charge each other, to 3.5 percent from 4.25 percent.   

The Fed's rate cut prompted  Bear Stearns Cos. to upgrade the entire sector to "Market Overweight" from "Market Underweight."  Bear Stearns' analysts upgraded the sector because aggressive actions by the Fed to stave off market downturns typically help boost bank stocks' performance.   

"In looking back at bank stock relative performance in the 1990 recession, it is clear that the trigger for bank-stock outperformance was the beginning of more aggressive Fed easing in October 1990,"  Bear Stearns analysts David Hilder, Jason Harbes and Thang To wrote in a research note.   

Bear Stearns added banks with the largest levels of real estate lending portfolios will lag their counterparts in performance because nonperforming assets are expected to rise through at least the middle of the year, if not through the end of 2008.   

Shares of  Washington Mutual Inc., one of the nation's largest subprime mortgage lenders, posted the smallest gains among national banks in Wednesday trading.  Bear Stearns rates  Washington Mutual an "Underperform."   

Subprime mortgages are loans given to customers with poor credit history. Those loans have been among the worst-performing as mortgage delinquencies and defaults have increased sharply over the past few months.   

One exception to real estate-rich banks struggling is  JPMorgan Chase & Co. because of its strong risk management, the  Bear Stearns note said.   

Shares of  JPMorgan Chase rose $2.13, or 5.2 percent, to $42.99.  Bear Stearns rates  JPMorgan Chase as "Outperform."   

Elsewhere among national banks, shares of  Bank of America Corp. rose $1.70, or 4.6 percent, to $39.09.   

Shares of  Citigroup Inc. rose 68 cents, or 2.8 percent, to $25.08.   

Wachovia Corp. shares rose $2.16, or 6.8 percent, to $34.07.   
   RF7   COberstn : The Bear Stearns Companies LLC | nwbc : Wells Fargo & Company   INibnk : Banking/Credit | i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | i831 : Financial Investments | i83101 : Investment Banking | iinv : Investing/Securities   NSccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagapf | selapfin | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | APFN National Banks Sector Snap | D8UBNMOO0   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020080123e41n002c1  



 HDText of Fed Statement on rate cut      WC274 words   PD22 January 2008   ET21:29   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPThe Federal Reserve's interest rate statement released Tuesday:   

The Federal Open Market Committee has decided to lower its target for the federal funds rate 75 basis points to 3-1/2 percent.   
   TDThe Committee took this action in view of a weakening of the economic outlook and increasing downside risks to growth. While strains in short-term funding markets have eased somewhat, broader financial market conditions have continued to deteriorate and credit has tightened further for some businesses and households. Moreover, incoming information indicates a deepening of the housing contraction as well as some softening in labor markets.   

The Committee expects inflation to moderate in coming quarters, but it will be necessary to continue to monitor inflation developments carefully.   

Appreciable downside risks to growth remain. The Committee will continue to assess the effects of financial and other developments on economic prospects and will act in a timely manner as needed to address those risks.   

Voting for the FOMC monetary policy action were: Ben S. Bernanke, Chairman; Timothy F. Geithner, Vice Chairman; Charles L. Evans; Thomas M. Hoenig; Donald L. Kohn; Randall S. Kroszner; Eric S. Rosengren; and Kevin M. Warsh. Voting against was William Poole, who did not believe that current conditions justified policy action before the regularly scheduled meeting next week. Absent and not voting was Frederic S. Mishkin.   

In a related action, the Board of Governors approved a 75-basis-point decrease in the discount rate to 4 percent. In taking this action, the Board approved the requests submitted by the Boards of Directors of the Federal Reserve Banks of Chicago and Minneapolis.   
   RF5   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagdsp | sel----- | catw   IPDAP National News | Washington | Fed Text | D8UB55C81   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020080122e41m001xk  



 HDAnalysis: Can government moves stop economic vicious cycle? Fears can be self-fulfilling      BYBy JEANNINE AVERSA      CRAP Economics Writer   WC845 words   PD22 January 2008   ET23:10   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPWASHINGTON (AP) - When people are panicking, it's hard to stop the stampede with talk about cutting a "federal funds rate." Economic fears on Wall Street and around the world are making people and businesses hunker down, and that could make all the recession worries come true -- a vicious cycle the Federal Reserve, White House and Congress may be hard-pressed to break.   

Giving it a try, official Washington is in full crisis-management mode. Virtually everyone agrees more action will be needed.   
   TDIn his boldest action yet, Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke on Tuesday slashed the central bank's most important interest rate by three-quarters of a percentage point -- the biggest cut in records going back to 1990 -- and signaled he's ready to go lower. That should lower many other interest rates charged to millions of people and companies.   

At the same time, President Bush and top lawmakers in Congress were rushing to secure fast agreement on a rescue plan to inject about $150 billion into the troubled economy. Tax rebates for individuals and tax breaks for businesses are likely to be part of a package. Maybe more spending for food stamps and unemployment benefits, too.   

"The Fed's action gives some psychological breathing room, but it isn't enough in itself. There is a lot of fear out there," said Howard Chernick, economic professor at Hunter College.   

That was evident on Wall Street. The Dow Jones Industrials closed down nearly 130 points after tumbling more than 400 at the start of the day.   

Panic itself can make people and businesses change their behavior -- clamp down on spending and or cut back on hiring and capital investment -- and in turn make things worse for the economy. A gloomy mind-set can become a self-fulfilling prophecy.   

To break it, more rate cuts by the Fed are likely to be needed.   

"This is only the appetizer. The main course is going to be served up next week" when the Fed is likely to lower its key rate by one-half percentage point, said Ken Mayland, president of ClearView Economics.   

Many economists predict the rate, now at 3.5 percent, could fall to 2.5 percent, or possibly lower, by spring.   

For many people, that could mean lower interest rates on certain credit cards, home equity lines of credit and other loans. It also could provide some relief to some adjustable-rate mortgages. If people are paying less interest, they may be more inclined to shop, which would help energize the economy.   

For businesses, lower interest rates could spur capital investment and hiring.   

Most people think that won't be enough.   

The Bush administration and Congress promise to quickly approve an economic stimulus package to get cash into the hands of people, hoping they'll spend it just as quickly. Recognizing the urgency, both sides appear to be putting aside some political differences in championing tax rebates and other changes.   

There are some things, however, the administration has little or no control over -- namely, higher oil prices that will sock people when they open their home heating bills and fill their cars with gas. And, there's the possibility that banks will continue to rack up multibillion dollar losses due to bad mortgage investments. Those losses have to run their course -- and could fuel even greater panic.   

There was some thought that the Fed's dramatic move Tuesday may have added to the skittishness.   

"You have the Fed sending the message that something is seriously wrong," said Richard Yamarone, economist at Argus Research. "Most people do believe that we are in a recession."   

The Fed's rate cuts, which began in September, take months to work their way through the economy and show up in business activity. The same goes for a stimulus package.   

Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid of Nevada said the goal is to get a deal through Congress and on Bush's desk within roughly three weeks. Bush said he was confident that Congress and the administration will be able to approve a stimulus package.   

Will that avert a recession or at least cushion the blow?   

"The Fed and other policymakers in Washington are trying to avoid what people fear the most -- an oncoming recession. If they can calm those fears, perhaps not today or tomorrow but down the road, that would go a long way in stabilizing the situation," said Victor Li, an economics professor at the Villanova School of Business.   

Lowering interest rates or passing a stimulus package may not be enough. People and investors may want to see something more concrete -- lower unemployment or higher retail spending, for example. But the economy is dealing with a huge unknown: the ultimate magnitude of the housing crash and credit crunch.   

And with uncertainty comes more fear -- a return to the vicious cycle.   

------   

EDITOR'S NOTE -- Jeannine Aversa has covered economics and the Federal Reserve for The Associated Press since 1999.   
   RF7   ARTimage      NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagdsp | sel----- | catw   IPDAP National News | Washington | Economy Vicious Cycle | D8UB6KS02   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020080122e41m003hl  



 HDAnalysis: Can government moves stop economic vicious cycle? Fears can be self-fulfilling      BYBy JEANNINE AVERSA      CRAP Economics Writer   WC831 words   PD23 January 2008   ET00:55   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPWASHINGTON (AP) - When people are panicking, it is hard to stop the stampede with talk about cutting a "federal funds rate." Economic fears on Wall Street and around the world are making people and businesses nervous, and that could make all the recession worries come true -- a vicious cycle the Federal Reserve, White House and Congress may find difficult to break.   

Giving it a try, official Washington is in full crisis-management mode. Virtually everyone agrees more action will be needed.   
   TDIn his boldest action yet, Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke on Tuesday cut the U.S. central bank's most important interest rate by three-quarters of a percentage point -- the biggest cut in records going back to 1990 -- and signaled he is ready to go lower. That should lower many other interest rates charged to millions of people and companies.   

At the same time, President George W. Bush and top lawmakers in Congress were rushing to secure fast agreement on a rescue plan to inject about $150 billion (euro103 billion) into the troubled economy. Tax rebates for individuals and tax breaks for businesses are likely to be part of the package.   

"The Fed's action gives some psychological breathing room, but it isn't enough in itself. There is a lot of fear out there," said Howard Chernick, economic professor at Hunter College.   

That was evident on Wall Street. The Dow Jones Industrials closed down nearly 130 points after tumbling more than 400 at the start of the day.   

Panic can make people and businesses change their behavior -- stop spending or cut back on hiring and capital investment -- and in turn make things worse for the economy. A gloomy mind-set can become a self-fulfilling prophecy.   

To break it, more rate cuts by the Fed are likely to be needed.   

"This is only the appetizer. The main course is going to be served up next week" when the Fed is likely to lower its key rate by one-half percentage point, said Ken Mayland, president of ClearView Economics.   

Many economists predict the rate, now at 3.5 percent, could fall to 2.5 percent, or possibly lower, by spring.   

For many people, that could mean lower interest rates on certain credit cards, home equity lines of credit and other loans. It also could provide some relief to some adjustable-rate mortgages. If people are paying less interest, they may be more inclined to shop, which would help energize the economy.   

For businesses, lower interest rates could spur capital investment and hiring.   

Most people think that will not be enough.   

The Bush administration and Congress promise to quickly approve the economic stimulus package to get cash into the hands of people, hoping they will spend it just as quickly. Recognizing the urgency, both sides appear to be putting aside some political differences in championing tax rebates and other changes.   

There are some things, however, the administration has little or no control over -- namely, higher oil prices that will hit people when they open their home heating bills and fill their cars with gas. And, there is the possibility that banks will continue to have multibillion-dollar losses due to bad mortgage investments. Those losses have to run their course -- and could fuel even greater panic.   

There was some thought that the Fed's dramatic move Tuesday may have added to the nervousness.   

"You have the Fed sending the message that something is seriously wrong," said Richard Yamarone, economist at Argus Research. "Most people do believe that we are in a recession."   

The Fed's rate cuts, which began in September, take months to work their way through the economy and show up in business activity. The same goes for a stimulus package.   

Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid said the goal is to get a deal through Congress and on Bush's desk within roughly three weeks. Bush said he was confident that Congress and the administration will be able to approve a stimulus package.   

Will that avert a recession or at least cushion the blow?   

"The Fed and other policymakers in Washington are trying to avoid what people fear the most -- an oncoming recession. If they can calm those fears, perhaps not today or tomorrow but down the road, that would go a long way in stabilizing the situation," said Victor Li, an economics professor at the Villanova School of Business.   

Lowering interest rates or passing a stimulus package may not be enough. People and investors may want to see something more concrete -- lower unemployment or higher retail spending, for example. But the economy is dealing with a huge unknown: the ultimate magnitude of the housing crash and credit crunch.   

And with uncertainty comes more fear -- a return to the vicious cycle.   

------   

EDITOR'S NOTE -- Jeannine Aversa has covered economics and the Federal Reserve for The Associated Press since 1999.   
   RF7   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPCtagpf1wcat | sel----- | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | NA FIN ECO ANL US Economy Vicious Cycle | D8UB86100   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020080122e41m003qy  



 HDDollar Mostly Falls After Fed Rate Cut      WC463 words   PD22 January 2008   ET22:51   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPNEW YORK (AP) - The dollar retreated against most major currencies after the U.S. Federal Reserve dramatically slashed a key interest rate Tuesday and stocks plunged across the globe.   

The 15-nation euro, which had traded as low as $1.4366 earlier in the session, was worth $1.4612 in late New York trading.   
   TDThat represented a significant weakening by the dollar against the euro from Monday's European price of $1.4439, when U.S. markets were closed for Martin Luther King Day. The dollar, however, was still stronger against the euro than it was Friday, when the euro was worth $1.4622 late in New York.   

The British pound rose to $1.9625, above $1.9452 on Monday in Europe and the $1.9559 it was worth Friday in New York. The dollar rose to 106.48 Japanese yen from 105.92 yen on Monday, but it was down from 106.67 yen late in New York on Friday.   

Confronted by a global stock sell-off generated by fears of a U.S. recession, the Fed slashed its federal funds rate from 4.25 percent to 3.5 percent and indicated further rate cuts were likely. In response, the Dow Jones industrial average closed down 124 points Tuesday after falling 465 points at the start of trading.   

The surprise reduction was the biggest one-day rate move by the U.S. central bank in more than 16 years.   

Lower interest rates can jump-start a country's economy, but may weigh on its currency as traders transfer funds to countries where they can earn higher returns. Higher interest rates can boost a currency.   

Before Tuesday's Fed move, the euro had been losing ground on speculation the European Central Bank will refrain from further rate hikes, viewed as possible amid the threat of rising Euro-zone inflation.   

David Solin, a partner at Foreign Exchange Analytics in Essex, Conn., said that if stocks continue to sink worldwide, political pressure will build on the ECB to take action and perhaps cut borrowing costs.   

In other New York trading, the dollar fell to 1.0266 Canadian dollars from 1.0282 Canadian dollars late Friday in New York.   

Within an hour of the Fed's announcement, the  Bank of Canada announced it was lowering its overnight interest rate by 25 basis points to 4 percent, a widely expected move.   

It was the bank's second consecutive cut amid fears over the impact of a U.S. recession. The U.S. is Canada's main trading partner. More cuts are likely, said the bank in a statement.   

The dollar also slipped to 1.0974 Swiss francs from 1.0990 Swiss francs in late New York trading last week.   
   RF7   NSm13 : Money/Forex Markets | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | e1202 : Interest Rates | e52 : Euro Zone/Currency | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagpf1apon | sel----- | catf | 1312   IPDFinancial/Business | Dollar | D8UB6BUG0   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020080122e41m001hy  



 HDFed cuts benchmark  interest rate  target in an effort to stave off a recession      WC394 words   PD23 January 2008   ET00:31   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPNEW YORK (AP) - Is the U.S. economy slipping into recession? Economists, analysts and investors are increasingly recognizing the possibility. Following are some comments Tuesday assessing the state of the economy, and what may happen if it slides into a recession:   

-- Keith Lerner, an analyst with SunTrust Robinson Humphrey, attributed the global sell-off in stocks on Monday to lingering concerns about a U.S. recession "and its potential spillover to the rest of the world."   
   TD-- Before markets in the U.S. opened, the Federal Reserve unveiled a surprise cut in the target for a key benchmark interest rate, to 3.5 percent from 4.25 percent. "The Fed and other policymakers in Washington are trying to avoid what people fear the most -- an oncoming recession. If they can calm those fears, perhaps not today or tomorrow but down the road, that would go a long way in stabilizing the situation," said Victor Li, an economics professor at the Villanova School of Business.   

-- On Tuesday,  Merrill Lynch chief North American economist David Rosenberg forecast there will be a recession through the end of the third quarter.  UBS also issued research projecting a recession, although a comparatively mild one.   

-- Citi Investment Research analyst Bradley Ball wrote in a research report the increased likelihood of a recession means lenders are going to have to set aside more money to cover unpaid loans. While many lenders acknowledge worse credit, none are forecasting a recession, he said, even though a recession probably cannot be avoided.   

-- Luxury goods are likely to be the first hit in a recession, Canaccord Adams analyst Jonathan Dorsheimer said after asserting it is "becoming more likely that the U.S. market is entering a recession."   

-- "While current economic growth is extremely weak, as we've said for months, despite all the pessimism we don't believe the conditions are in place for a severe recession," said Barrington Research analyst Alexander Paris.   

--  Goldman Sachs analyst Lori B. Appelbaum said her estimates on  Bank of America Corp., whose profit plummeted more than 90 percent in the fourth quarter, assume a recession.   

-- Merriman Curhan Ford analyst Colby Synesael said even if the economy enters recession, customers will not stop using telecom and data services. Growth could slow, but not decline, he said.   
   RF7   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagapf | selapfin | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | APFN Shrinking Economy? | D8UB7R1O0   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020080122e41m001zh  



 HDEx-US Treasury Secretary Snow says more money needed to soften credit, housing woes      WC208 words   PD23 January 2008   ET12:16   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPDAVOS, Switzerland (AP) - Former U.S. Treasury Secretary John Snow said Wednesday that U.S. President George W. Bush should add more money to his proposed US$150 billion (103.5 billion) economic stimulus package.   

"The American economy is roughly US$13 trillion to US$14 trillion (8.9 trillion to 9.6 trillion)," he said. "(The fiscal stimulus package) ought to be 1.5 percent to 2 percent of that, so we're talking US$200 billion (137.9 billion) or so," he said on the sidelines of the annual World Economic Forum meeting.   
   TD"(The package) should be a large number and have a real impact," said Snow, who lead the Treasury Department from 2003 to 2006. He is chairman of private equity firm Cerberus Capital Management, L.P., which owns U.S. automaker Chrysler.   

Snow praised U.S. Federal Reserve chief Ben Bernanke for the central bank's 0.75 percent interest rate cut on Tuesday, bringing the nation's benchmark interest rate to 3.5 percent.   

"It shows the Fed is capable of bold action and I think the market's reaction is that it was well received," he said.   
   RF7   INi8150203 : Private Equity | i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles | iinv : Investing/Securities   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | gvtre : Treasury Department | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | gvexe : Executive Branch   REswitz : Switzerland | usa : United States | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe   IPCtagapf | selapfin | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | APFN EU FIN World Forum John Snow | D8UBI56G1   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020080123e41n001cs  



 HDEx-US Treasury Secretary Snow says more money needed to soften credit, housing woes      WC208 words   PD23 January 2008   ET12:16   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPDAVOS, Switzerland (AP) - Former U.S. Treasury Secretary John Snow said Wednesday that U.S. President George W. Bush should add more money to his proposed US$150 billion (euro103.5 billion) economic stimulus package.   

"The American economy is roughly US$13 trillion to US$14 trillion (euro8.9 trillion to euro9.6 trillion)," he said. "(The fiscal stimulus package) ought to be 1.5 percent to 2 percent of that, so we're talking US$200 billion (euro137.9 billion) or so," he said on the sidelines of the annual World Economic Forum meeting.   
   TD"(The package) should be a large number and have a real impact," said Snow, who lead the Treasury Department from 2003 to 2006. He is chairman of private equity firm Cerberus Capital Management, L.P., which owns U.S. automaker Chrysler.   

Snow praised U.S. Federal Reserve chief Ben Bernanke for the central bank's 0.75 percent interest rate cut on Tuesday, bringing the nation's benchmark interest rate to 3.5 percent.   

"It shows the Fed is capable of bold action and I think the market's reaction is that it was well received," he said.   
   RF7   INi8150203 : Private Equity | i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles | iinv : Investing/Securities   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | gvtre : Treasury Department | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | gvexe : Executive Branch   REswitz : Switzerland | usa : United States | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe   IPCtagpf1wcat | sel----- | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | EU FIN World Forum John Snow | D8UBI5802   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020080123e41n001ct  



 HDEmergency Fed rate cut stabilizes stocks; Bush, Congress pledge urgent action to stem slide      BYBy TERENCE HUNT      CRAP White House Correspondent   WC1,207 words   PD23 January 2008   ET01:11   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPWASHINGTON (AP) - You know the economy is in big trouble when Democrats and Republicans start talking cooperation instead of confrontation.   

Recession fears and an unnerving meltdown in global markets are forcing a burst of emergency action rarely seen in this slow-moving and politically divided capital.   
   TDThe biggest surprise Tuesday came from the Federal Reserve, the nation's central bank, which slashed a key interest rate and hinted it would do it again, soon. That move, decided in an unannounced video conference Monday night, helped avert an expected disaster on Wall Street following a stock selloff in Asia. Down 465 at one point, the Down Jones industrials ended the day off a moderate 128.   

There was a surprise at the White House, too. The bitterness and name calling that have been the hallmark of relations between President Bush and the Democratic-led Congress were replaced -- at least for now -- by cordiality and cooperation. Lawmakers joined administration officials in negotiations on upwards of $150 billion in tax cuts and government spending to pump up the economy.   

Bush summoned lawmakers to the White House to talk about his recent trip to the Middle East, but the subject on everyone's mind was the deteriorating economy and plummeting world markets.   

"The urgency that we feel at home is now even more urgent as we see the impact of our markets on others," House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said afterward.   

Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid said the goal was to get a deal through Congress and on Bush's desk within roughly three weeks -- lightning speed compared with the usual snail's pace on Capitol Hill. His Republican counterpart, Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, agreed the aim was action in the next few weeks and said, "That, by the standards in Congress, is pretty fast."   

Bush expressed confidence that he and the Democratic-led Congress could put aside sharp differences that have marked his presidency.   

"I believe we can find common ground to get something done that's big enough, effective enough so that an economy that is inherently strong gets a boost -- to make sure that this uncertainty doesn't translate into more economic woes for our workers and small business people," Bush said in the Cabinet Room.   

Later, announcing the creation of a panel to educate people about their finances, Bush said he thought there would be an agreement "in relatively short order."   

The White House meeting was intended to show the world that Bush and his Democratic adversaries recognize the gravity of the economic slowdown and are serious about protecting consumers and investors who have watched their holdings shrink. Wall Street and global markets fear the stimulus package outlined by Bush is not enough to avert a recession. The Dow Jones industrial average is down nearly 10 percent since the beginning of the year -- its worst first 14 trading days ever.   

Official Washington was accentuating the positive.   

"I really feel good that we have an opportunity to do something together," Reid said, standing in the White House driveway with Pelosi after talking with Bush. Reid said the size of a deal suggested by Bush was "a good number."   

Administration officials are focusing on rebates of $800 to $1,600 for individuals and couples and so-called bonus depreciation to allow companies to deduct 50 percent of business investments made this year. Democrats say the package also should include boosts in unemployment benefits, food stamp payments and the Medicaid health care program for the poor and disabled. Talks between Pelosi and Minority Leader John Boehner, R-Ohio, have focused on smaller tax rebates of perhaps $500 for individuals.   

Like Bush, lawmakers would not discuss what a compromise plan would look like, stressing cooperation rather than potential differences over details.   

"This is about one thing in this package: Is it a stimulus?" Pelosi said "So whatever it is that we are considering, it must meet that one criterion: Does it stimulate the economy? Does it put money into the hands of those who will spend it?"   

When the Democratic leaders were asked if they agreed with Bush's statement that the economy is inherently strong, Pelosi said, "I certainly hope so."   

Reid said the House would pass a package first and send it to the Senate. Pelosi, Boehner and Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson planned to talk over breakfast Wednesday.   

Paulson went to Capitol Hill for talks on the ingredients of the economic package. "Time is of the essence and the president stands ready to work on a bipartisan basis to enact economic growth legislation as soon as possible," he said earlier in a speech at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce.   

Many analysts say the United States already has tumbled into a recession -- a notion rejected by the White House. "We are not forecasting a recession," spokeswoman Dana Perino said. "Clearly there is a slowdown."   

Leaving open the possibility of a bigger stimulus package, she said, "I'm not going to close the door but I'm not suggesting that anyone believes it has to be bigger" than the roughly $150 billion figure already discussed. Later, she said the White House has not "seen higher numbers floated by members of Congress" and that Bush believes the package he has outlined is "the right amount."   

The Fed's rate cut caught Washington by surprise. Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke and his colleagues approved the cut Monday night after global markets were slammed by rising concerns that weakness in the world's largest economy was spreading worldwide.   

"The world's stock markets are in meltdown, so the Fed came in with an inter-meeting move to try to stop the panic," said Christopher Rupkey, senior economist at  Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi.

The reduction in the federal funds rate from 4.25 percent to 3.5 percent marked the biggest reduction in this target rate for overnight loans on records going back to 1990. It marked the first time the Fed has changed rates between meetings since 2001, when the central bank was battling the combined impacts of a recession and the terrorist attacks.   

Commercial banks responded by announcing similar cuts of three-quarter of a percent in their prime lending rate, the benchmark for millions of business and consumer loans. The action will mean the prime lending rate will drop from 7.25 percent down to 6.50 percent.   

Analysts said the fact that the Fed did not wait until its meeting next week to cut rates underscored the seriousness of the situation. The Fed was expected to cut rates further, possibly as soon as their next meeting on Jan. 29-30, if there are continued signs that the economy is weakening.   

"This move by the Fed was essential," said Lyle Gramley, a former Fed governor who is now a senior analyst with the  Stanford Financial Group in Washington. "Bernanke promised in a speech earlier this month to take substantive action in a timely and decisive manner."   

------   

Associated Press writers Martin Crutsinger, Andrew Taylor, Deb Riechmann and Ben Feller contributed to this report.   
   RF7   ARTimage image image image image image image video video      NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagdsp | sel----- | catw   IPDAP National News | Washington | Economy Stimulus Optional | D8UB8DI00   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020080123e41n00025  



 HDUS Moves to Avert Economic Meltdown      BYBy TERENCE HUNT      CRAP White House Correspondent   WC1,139 words   PD23 January 2008   ET00:24   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPWASHINGTON (AP) - Jolted by global recession fears, the Federal Reserve slashed interest rates Tuesday, and President Bush and leaders of Congress joined in a rare show of cooperation in promising urgent action to pump up the economy with upwards of $150 billion in tax cuts and government spending.   

Market meltdowns overnight around the globe and growing anxiety at home stirred lawmakers and the administration toward swift action, possibly within a few weeks. Wall Street plummeted as the day began, following Asian stocks, then warily eased its sell-off after the Fed ordered the biggest cut on record in a key interest rate. The Dow Jones industrials, down 465 points at one point, closed the day off 128.   
   TDThe Fed, announcing its action after an emergency video conference Monday night, indicated further rate reductions were likely, aimed at encouraging people and companies to start spending again.   

"The urgency that we feel at home is now even more urgent as we see the impact of our markets on others," House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said after both Democratic and Republican lawmakers met with Bush at the White House.   

Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid said the goal was to get a deal through Congress and on Bush's desk within roughly three weeks -- lightning speed compared with the usual snail's pace on Capitol Hill. His Republican counterpart, Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, agreed the aim was action in the next few weeks and said, "That, by the standards in Congress, is pretty fast."   

Bush expressed confidence that he and the Democratic-led Congress could put aside bitter differences that have marked his presidency.   

"I believe we can find common ground to get something done that's big enough, effective enough so that an economy that is inherently strong gets a boost -- to make sure that this uncertainty doesn't translate into more economic woes for our workers and small business people," Bush said in the Cabinet Room.   

Later, announcing the creation of a panel to educate people about their finances, Bush said he thought there would be an agreement "in relatively short order."   

The White House meeting was intended to show the world that Bush and his Democratic adversaries recognize the gravity of the economic slowdown and are serious about protecting consumers and investors who have watched their holdings shrink. Wall Street and global markets fear the stimulus package outlined by Bush is not enough to avert a recession. The Dow Jones industrial average is down nearly 10 percent since the beginning of the year -- its worst first 14 trading days ever.   

Official Washington was accentuating the positive.   

"I really feel good that we have an opportunity to do something together," Reid said, standing in the White House driveway with Pelosi after talking with Bush. Reid said the size of a deal suggested by Bush was "a good number."   

Administration officials are focusing on rebates of $800 to $1,600 for individuals and couples and so-called bonus depreciation to allow companies to deduct 50 percent of business investments made this year. Democrats say the package also should include boosts in unemployment benefits, food stamp payments and the Medicaid health care program for the poor and disabled. Talks between Pelosi and Minority Leader John Boehner, R-Ohio, have focused on smaller tax rebates of perhaps $500 for individuals.   

Like Bush, lawmakers would not discuss what a compromise plan would look like, stressing cooperation rather than potential differences over details.   

"This is about one thing in this package: Is it a stimulus?" Pelosi said "So whatever it is that we are considering, it must meet that one criterion: Does it stimulate the economy? Does it put money into the hands of those who will spend it?"   

When the Democratic leaders were asked if they agreed with Bush's statement that the economy is inherently strong, Pelosi said, "I certainly hope so."   

Reid said the House would pass a package first and send it to the Senate.   

Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson went to Capitol Hill for talks on the ingredients of the economic package. "Time is of the essence and the president stands ready to work on a bipartisan basis to enact economic growth legislation as soon as possible," he said earlier in a speech at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce.   

Many analysts say the United States already has tumbled into a recession -- a notion rejected by the White House. "We are not forecasting a recession," spokeswoman Dana Perino said. "Clearly there is a slowdown."   

Leaving open the possibility of a bigger stimulus package, she said, "I'm not going to close the door but I'm not suggesting that anyone believes it has to be bigger" than the roughly $150 billion figure already discussed. Later, she said the White House has not "seen higher numbers floated by members of Congress" and that Bush believes the package he has outlined is "the right amount."   

The Fed's rate cut caught Washington by surprise. Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke and his colleagues approved the cut Monday night after global markets were slammed by rising concerns that weakness in the world's largest economy was spreading worldwide.   

"The world's stock markets are in meltdown, so the Fed came in with an inter-meeting move to try to stop the panic," said Christopher Rupkey, senior economist at  Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi.

The reduction in the federal funds rate from 4.25 percent to 3.5 percent marked the biggest reduction in this target rate for overnight loans on records going back to 1990. It marked the first time the Fed has changed rates between meetings since 2001, when the central bank was battling the combined impacts of a recession and the terrorist attacks.   

Commercial banks responded by announcing similar cuts of three-quarter of a percent in their prime lending rate, the benchmark for millions of business and consumer loans. The action will mean the prime lending rate will drop from 7.25 percent down to 6.50 percent.   

Analysts said the fact that the Fed did not wait until its meeting next week to cut rates underscored the seriousness of the situation. The Fed was expected to cut rates further, possibly as soon as their next meeting on Jan. 29-30, if there are continued signs that the economy is weakening.   

"This move by the Fed was essential," said Lyle Gramley, a former Fed governor who is now a senior analyst with the  Stanford Financial Group in Washington. "Bernanke promised in a speech earlier this month to take substantive action in a timely and decisive manner."   

------   

Associated Press writers Martin Crutsinger, Andrew Taylor, Deb Riechmann and Ben Feller contributed to this report.   
   RF7   ARTimage image image image image image image video video      NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | gpol : Domestic Politics | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagpf1apon | sel----- | catf | 1310   IPDFinancial/Business | Economy Stimulus | D8UB7NCG0   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020080122e41m00140  



 HDEmergency Fed rate cut stabilizes stocks; Bush, Congress pledge urgent action to stem slide      BYBy TERENCE HUNT      CRAP White House Correspondent   WC1,149 words   PD23 January 2008   ET00:23   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPWASHINGTON (AP) - Jolted by global recession fears, the Federal Reserve slashed interest rates Tuesday, and President Bush and leaders of Congress joined in a rare show of cooperation in promising urgent action to pump up the economy with upwards of $150 billion in tax cuts and government spending.   

Market meltdowns overnight around the globe and growing anxiety at home stirred lawmakers and the administration toward swift action, possibly within a few weeks. Wall Street plummeted as the day began, following Asian stocks, then warily eased its sell-off after the Fed ordered the biggest cut on record in a key interest rate. The Dow Jones industrials, down 465 points at one point, closed the day off 128.   
   TDThe Fed, announcing its action after an emergency video conference Monday night, indicated further rate reductions were likely, aimed at encouraging people and companies to start spending again.   

"The urgency that we feel at home is now even more urgent as we see the impact of our markets on others," House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said after both Democratic and Republican lawmakers met with Bush at the White House.   

Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid said the goal was to get a deal through Congress and on Bush's desk within roughly three weeks -- lightning speed compared with the usual snail's pace on Capitol Hill. His Republican counterpart, Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, agreed the aim was action in the next few weeks and said, "That, by the standards in Congress, is pretty fast."   

Bush expressed confidence that he and the Democratic-led Congress could put aside bitter differences that have marked his presidency.   

"I believe we can find common ground to get something done that's big enough, effective enough so that an economy that is inherently strong gets a boost -- to make sure that this uncertainty doesn't translate into more economic woes for our workers and small business people," Bush said in the Cabinet Room.   

Later, announcing the creation of a panel to educate people about their finances, Bush said he thought there would be an agreement "in relatively short order."   

The White House meeting was intended to show the world that Bush and his Democratic adversaries recognize the gravity of the economic slowdown and are serious about protecting consumers and investors who have watched their holdings shrink. Wall Street and global markets fear the stimulus package outlined by Bush is not enough to avert a recession. The Dow Jones industrial average is down nearly 10 percent since the beginning of the year -- its worst first 14 trading days ever.   

Official Washington was accentuating the positive.   

"I really feel good that we have an opportunity to do something together," Reid said, standing in the White House driveway with Pelosi after talking with Bush. Reid said the size of a deal suggested by Bush was "a good number."   

Administration officials are focusing on rebates of $800 to $1,600 for individuals and couples and so-called bonus depreciation to allow companies to deduct 50 percent of business investments made this year. Democrats say the package also should include boosts in unemployment benefits, food stamp payments and the Medicaid health care program for the poor and disabled. Talks between Pelosi and Minority Leader John Boehner, R-Ohio, have focused on smaller tax rebates of perhaps $500 for individuals.   

Like Bush, lawmakers would not discuss what a compromise plan would look like, stressing cooperation rather than potential differences over details.   

"This is about one thing in this package: Is it a stimulus?" Pelosi said "So whatever it is that we are considering, it must meet that one criterion: Does it stimulate the economy? Does it put money into the hands of those who will spend it?"   

When the Democratic leaders were asked if they agreed with Bush's statement that the economy is inherently strong, Pelosi said, "I certainly hope so."   

Reid said the House would pass a package first and send it to the Senate.   

Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson went to Capitol Hill for talks on the ingredients of the economic package. "Time is of the essence and the president stands ready to work on a bipartisan basis to enact economic growth legislation as soon as possible," he said earlier in a speech at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce.   

Many analysts say the United States already has tumbled into a recession -- a notion rejected by the White House. "We are not forecasting a recession," spokeswoman Dana Perino said. "Clearly there is a slowdown."   

Leaving open the possibility of a bigger stimulus package, she said, "I'm not going to close the door but I'm not suggesting that anyone believes it has to be bigger" than the roughly $150 billion figure already discussed. Later, she said the White House has not "seen higher numbers floated by members of Congress" and that Bush believes the package he has outlined is "the right amount."   

The Fed's rate cut caught Washington by surprise. Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke and his colleagues approved the cut Monday night after global markets were slammed by rising concerns that weakness in the world's largest economy was spreading worldwide.   

"The world's stock markets are in meltdown, so the Fed came in with an inter-meeting move to try to stop the panic," said Christopher Rupkey, senior economist at  Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi.

The reduction in the federal funds rate from 4.25 percent to 3.5 percent marked the biggest reduction in this target rate for overnight loans on records going back to 1990. It marked the first time the Fed has changed rates between meetings since 2001, when the central bank was battling the combined impacts of a recession and the terrorist attacks.   

Commercial banks responded by announcing similar cuts of three-quarter of a percent in their prime lending rate, the benchmark for millions of business and consumer loans. The action will mean the prime lending rate will drop from 7.25 percent down to 6.50 percent.   

Analysts said the fact that the Fed did not wait until its meeting next week to cut rates underscored the seriousness of the situation. The Fed was expected to cut rates further, possibly as soon as their next meeting on Jan. 29-30, if there are continued signs that the economy is weakening.   

"This move by the Fed was essential," said Lyle Gramley, a former Fed governor who is now a senior analyst with the  Stanford Financial Group in Washington. "Bernanke promised in a speech earlier this month to take substantive action in a timely and decisive manner."   

------   

Associated Press writers Martin Crutsinger, Andrew Taylor, Deb Riechmann and Ben Feller contributed to this report.   
   RF7   ARTimage image image image image image image audio audio video video      NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | gpol : Domestic Politics | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagapf | selapfin | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | APFN Economy Stimulus | D8UB7MT80   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020080122e41m00141  



 HDEmergency Fed rate cut stabilizes stocks; Bush, Congress pledge urgent action to stem slide      BYBy TERENCE HUNT      CRAP White House Correspondent   WC1,197 words   PD23 January 2008   ET00:31   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPWASHINGTON (AP) - You know the economy is in big trouble when Democrats and Republicans start talking cooperation instead of confrontation.   

Recession fears and an unnerving meltdown in global markets are forcing a burst of emergency action rarely seen in this slow-moving and politically divided capital.   
   TDThe biggest surprise Tuesday came from the Federal Reserve, the nation's central bank, which slashed a key interest rate and hinted it would do it again, soon. That move, decided in an unannounced video conference Monday night, helped avert an expected disaster on Wall Street following a stock selloff in Asia. Down 465 at one point, the Down Jones industrials ended the day off a moderate 128.   

There was a surprise at the White House, too. The bitterness and name calling that have been the hallmark of relations between President Bush and the Democratic-led Congress were replaced -- at least for now -- by cordiality and cooperation. Lawmakers joined administration officials in negotiations on upwards of $150 billion in tax cuts and government spending to pump up the economy.   

Bush summoned lawmakers to the White House to talk about his recent trip to the Middle East, but the subject on everyone's mind was the deteriorating economy and plummeting world markets.   

"The urgency that we feel at home is now even more urgent as we see the impact of our markets on others," House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said afterward.   

Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid said the goal was to get a deal through Congress and on Bush's desk within roughly three weeks -- lightning speed compared with the usual snail's pace on Capitol Hill. His Republican counterpart, Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, agreed the aim was action in the next few weeks and said, "That, by the standards in Congress, is pretty fast."   

Bush expressed confidence that he and the Democratic-led Congress could put aside sharp differences that have marked his presidency.   

"I believe we can find common ground to get something done that's big enough, effective enough so that an economy that is inherently strong gets a boost -- to make sure that this uncertainty doesn't translate into more economic woes for our workers and small business people," Bush said in the Cabinet Room.   

Later, announcing the creation of a panel to educate people about their finances, Bush said he thought there would be an agreement "in relatively short order."   

The White House meeting was intended to show the world that Bush and his Democratic adversaries recognize the gravity of the economic slowdown and are serious about protecting consumers and investors who have watched their holdings shrink. Wall Street and global markets fear the stimulus package outlined by Bush is not enough to avert a recession. The Dow Jones industrial average is down nearly 10 percent since the beginning of the year -- its worst first 14 trading days ever.   

Official Washington was accentuating the positive.   

"I really feel good that we have an opportunity to do something together," Reid said, standing in the White House driveway with Pelosi after talking with Bush. Reid said the size of a deal suggested by Bush was "a good number."   

Administration officials are focusing on rebates of $800 to $1,600 for individuals and couples and so-called bonus depreciation to allow companies to deduct 50 percent of business investments made this year. Democrats say the package also should include boosts in unemployment benefits, food stamp payments and the Medicaid health care program for the poor and disabled. Talks between Pelosi and Minority Leader John Boehner, R-Ohio, have focused on smaller tax rebates of perhaps $500 for individuals.   

Like Bush, lawmakers would not discuss what a compromise plan would look like, stressing cooperation rather than potential differences over details.   

"This is about one thing in this package: Is it a stimulus?" Pelosi said "So whatever it is that we are considering, it must meet that one criterion: Does it stimulate the economy? Does it put money into the hands of those who will spend it?"   

When the Democratic leaders were asked if they agreed with Bush's statement that the economy is inherently strong, Pelosi said, "I certainly hope so."   

Reid said the House would pass a package first and send it to the Senate.   

Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson went to Capitol Hill for talks on the ingredients of the economic package. "Time is of the essence and the president stands ready to work on a bipartisan basis to enact economic growth legislation as soon as possible," he said earlier in a speech at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce.   

Many analysts say the United States already has tumbled into a recession -- a notion rejected by the White House. "We are not forecasting a recession," spokeswoman Dana Perino said. "Clearly there is a slowdown."   

Leaving open the possibility of a bigger stimulus package, she said, "I'm not going to close the door but I'm not suggesting that anyone believes it has to be bigger" than the roughly $150 billion figure already discussed. Later, she said the White House has not "seen higher numbers floated by members of Congress" and that Bush believes the package he has outlined is "the right amount."   

The Fed's rate cut caught Washington by surprise. Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke and his colleagues approved the cut Monday night after global markets were slammed by rising concerns that weakness in the world's largest economy was spreading worldwide.   

"The world's stock markets are in meltdown, so the Fed came in with an inter-meeting move to try to stop the panic," said Christopher Rupkey, senior economist at  Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi.

The reduction in the federal funds rate from 4.25 percent to 3.5 percent marked the biggest reduction in this target rate for overnight loans on records going back to 1990. It marked the first time the Fed has changed rates between meetings since 2001, when the central bank was battling the combined impacts of a recession and the terrorist attacks.   

Commercial banks responded by announcing similar cuts of three-quarter of a percent in their prime lending rate, the benchmark for millions of business and consumer loans. The action will mean the prime lending rate will drop from 7.25 percent down to 6.50 percent.   

Analysts said the fact that the Fed did not wait until its meeting next week to cut rates underscored the seriousness of the situation. The Fed was expected to cut rates further, possibly as soon as their next meeting on Jan. 29-30, if there are continued signs that the economy is weakening.   

"This move by the Fed was essential," said Lyle Gramley, a former Fed governor who is now a senior analyst with the  Stanford Financial Group in Washington. "Bernanke promised in a speech earlier this month to take substantive action in a timely and decisive manner."   

------   

Associated Press writers Martin Crutsinger, Andrew Taylor, Deb Riechmann and Ben Feller contributed to this report.   
   RF7   ARTimage image image image image image image video video      NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagdstab | sel9---- | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | Economy Stimulus Optional | D8UB7QK01   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020080122e41m003pc  



 HDRPT-POLL-More Fed easing seen after big inter-meeting cut      BYBy Tamawa Kadoya      WC557 words   PD22 January 2008   ET23:07   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited   
   LP (Repeats story from late Tuesday)   
   TD NEW YORK, Jan 22 (Reuters) - Wall Street expects the Federal Reserve to ease benchmark interest rates again next week at its scheduled policy meeting following the surprising 75-basis-point cut on Tuesday.   

 A Reuters poll taken shortly after the Fed's inter-meeting rate cut showed 16 of 18 primary dealers polled forecast the Fed to cut benchmark rates at the Federal Open Market Committee meeting on Jan. 29-30, with 14 expecting a half-point reduction.   

 The Fed cut the federal funds rate target to 3.50 percent, the lowest since September 2005, as global stock markets dived on fears of a U.S. recession.   

 Noting the Fed's statement that downside risks to growth remain, "the language in the statement did nothing to dissuade the expectation of more easing," said Michael Feroli, economist at JPMorgan Chase.   

 A few respondents were uncertain about the Fed's next move, saying it would depend on how financial markets behave in the coming week.   

 The Fed said it would act "in a timely manner" to address downside risks.   

 The median forecast for the low in the fed funds rate for the current cycle fell to 2.5 percent, down from 3 percent in a previous poll taken last Wednesday.   

Interest rate futures have priced in another 25-basis-point rate cut next week, and a 78 percent chance for a half-point cut.   

 It was the first inter-meeting fed funds rate cut since 2001 and the first time since 1984 that the Fed eased the fed funds rate by three-quarters of a percentage point at one meeting.   

 The Fed has cut the fed funds rate by a cumulative 175 basis points since mid-September.   


                                       FF Rate    When will
                   Fed       Fed       at End of  Easing
                   Action    Action    Easing     Cycle
COMPANY               Jan 30    March 18  Cycle      End?
---------------------------------------------------------------
Banc of America       Cut 50    Cut 25    2.75      March
Barclays Capital      Cut 50    Cut 50    2.50      March Bear,
Stearns         Cut 50    No move   3.00      Jan BNP Paribas  
     No Move*   -        2.00       - Cantor Fitzgerald    
Cut 50    Cut 25      -        - Citigroup
   -         -           -        -  Countrywide Fin     
Cut 50    Cut 25      -        - Credit Suisse         Cut 50 
 Cut 25    2.50      April Daiwa Securities      SEE NOTE  -   
  3.00      June Deutsche Bank         Cut 50    SEE NOTE
Dresdner              Cut 50    Cut 50    2.50      March
Goldman, Sachs        Cut 50    Cut 25    2.50      Mid 2008
HSBC Securities       Cut 50    Cut 25    2.00      End 2008
J.P. Morgan           Cut 50    Cut 25    2.75      March
Lehman Brothers       Cut 25    Cut 25    2.50      June
Merrill Lynch         Cut 50    Cut 50    1.00      Q1 2009
Mizuho Securities     Cut 25    No move   3.25      December
Morgan Stanley           -         -         -         - RBS
Greenwich         Cut 50    Cut 50    2.25      April UBS
Securities        Cut 50    -         2.25      Q3 * BNP
   

Paribas: Could cut depending on market conditions DAIWA NOTE:
Potential moves depend on market conditions; range for Fed
Funds rate is 2.50 pct to 3.00 pct DEUTSCHE NOTE: March 18
action, FF rate, end of easing cycle are dependent on
conditions
 (Additional reporting by John Parry, Pedro Nicolaci da Costa,
Lucia Mutikani, Chris Reese, Ellen Freilich, Burton Frierson,
Emily Kaiser and Pam Niimi; Editing by Dan Grebler)

   
   RFUSA-FED/ (REPEAT)|LANGEN|Table|AUF   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020080122e41m0020q  



 HDRecovery seen for HK stocks after US rate cut      WC521 words   PD23 January 2008   ET01:56   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited   
   LP HONG KONG, Jan 23 (Reuters) - Hong Kong stocks should find a toehold on Wednesday as an emergency interest rate cut by the Federal Reserve is expected to halt a two-day sell-off that took China plays to their worst performance in 10 years.   

 The Hong Kong Monetary Authority (HKMA) followed the U.S. rate cut by lowering its overnight discount window by 75 basis points to 5.00 percent [ID:nHKG80642].   
   TD Rate-sensitive property stocks will lead the rebound, said Conita Hung, head of equity markets at Delta Asia Financial.   

 Hung said the market should see a 1,000-point bounce at the open, but may recoil as investors unload into strength.   

 Still, the market is expected to end in positive territory and trade around 24,500 on the day.   

 "For the China insurers, we should see a good rebound. But the raw materials, they will still be weak -- their rebound will be on a smaller scale."   

UBS downgraded emerging markets to "neutral" from "overweight", saying global emerging markets have witnessed significant outperformance relative to the world, but circumstances are changing with the global economic environment uncertain and challenging [ID:nWNA5730].   

 The benchmark Hang Seng index <.HSI> fell 8.7 percent to 21,757.63 on Tuesday. The China Enterprises Index of Hong Kong-listed mainland companies <.HSCE> shed 12 percent to 11,911.91, in their biggest one-day loss in 10 years.   

 STOCKS TO WATCH:   

 * Bank of China , the country's top foreign exchange lender, said on Tuesday its post-tax profit rose last year, refuting a media report that its 2007 earnings might drop due to its exposure to U.S. subprime loans [ID:nSHA62570]   

 * Mainland lender Bank of Communications  estimated on Tuesday that net profit rose at least 60 percent in 2007.   

 The bank cited rapid loan growth and rising income from intermediary business. In 2006, it made a net profit attributable to shareholders in the parent company of 12.55 billion yuan ($1.73 billion). [ID:nSHA28244]   

 *  Jiangxi Copper Co Ltd , China's top integrated copper producer, said it proposed to issue up to 6.8 billion yuan (US$939.4 million) worth of bonds with warrants in China to fund acquisitions and repay debts.   http://main.ednews.hk/listedco/listconews/sehk/20080122/LTN20080122492.pdf  

 FACTORS TO WATCH:    


* Nikkei <.N225> surges more than 3 pct after Fed cut        [.T]
* Recession fears hit Wall St but Fed cut helps              [.N]
* STOCKS NEWS ASIA-Market factors, main events     [STXNEWS/ASIA]
* Oil ends at one-month low on economic worries             [O/R]
* Dollar extends losses vs euro after Fed cut              [USD/]
* For upcoming Hong Kong events, click on              [HK/DIARY]
* For Hong Kong press digest, click on                 [PRESS/HK]
 KEY HK ADR MOVERS (by % change)
 Asia Satellite                               +3.0
 China East Air                               +1.3
  China Telecom                                -10.5
 Aluminum Corp                                -10.8
 China Life                                   -11
 (US$1=HK$7.8)
  (Reporting by Rita Chang; editing by Anne Marie Roantree)
   
   RFMARKETS-HONGKONG-STOCKS-PREOPEN|LANGEN|Table|ABN|E|RBN|Z|ABX|RNP|DNP|PTD|PMF   NSntop : Dow Jones/Reuters Top Wire News | e1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types   REasiaz : Asia | china : China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | hkong : Hong Kong | usa : United States | chinaz : Greater China | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America   IPCSTX | TCF | NEWS | .HK   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020080123e41n0000e  



 HDTREASURIES-Supported in Asia as S&P futures dip      BYBy Masayuki Kitano      WC325 words   PD23 January 2008   ET05:12   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited   
   LP TOKYO, Jan 23 (Reuters) - U.S. Treasuries were steady in Asian trading on Wednesday and two-year yields hovered near their lowest level in close to four years, as stock futures fell despite an emergency Federal Reserve rate cut overnight.   
   TD S&P 500 futures <SPc1> fell 13.30 points in Asian trading on Wednesday, even as regional shares rebounded after the Fed lowered the federal funds rate on Tuesday by the biggest amount in more than 23 years.   

 "There was some profit-taking in Treasuries early in the morning ... but we are seeing some buy-backs now because S&P futures are extending losses," said a senior trader for a U.S. investment bank.   

 "It seems like the Fed may be getting a bit anxious, and that may be making people nervous," the trader said, regarding the Fed's latest rate cut.   

 The two-year note dipped 1/32 in price to yield 1.993 percent <US2YT=RR> as of 0325 GMT, up from 1.978 percent in late U.S. trading on Tuesday, but still near their lowest level since April 2004.   

 The 10-year note dipped 1.5/32 in price to yield 3.424 percent <US10YT=RR>, up from 3.419 percent in late New York.   

 In a rare action between regularly scheduled meetings, the Fed cut the federal funds rate by three-quarters of a percentage point to 3.5 percent on Tuesday and signaled it stood ready to lower rates further.   

 Market players expect the Fed to cut interest rates further at a policy meeting next week.   

 Short-term interest rate futures show a roughly 90 percent perceived chance of a 50-basis-point rate cut at the Fed's Jan. 29-30 meeting.                          
   RFMARKETS-TREASURIES-ASIA|LANGEN|RBN|ABN|M|J|D|NAT|AUF|E|U|MNI|RNP|DNP|PTD|PMF   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | m131 : Money Markets | m15 : Derivative Securities | ntop : Dow Jones/Reuters Top Wire News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REasiaz : Asia | jap : Japan | usa : United States | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America   IPCDBT | GVD | INT | MCE | MMT | NEWS | DRV | STIR | MUNI | US/T | US/   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020080123e41n000e6  



 HDRPT-US STOCKS-Recession fears hit Wall St but Fed cut helps      WC978 words   PD23 January 2008   ET06:47   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited   
   LP(Repeats to additional subscribers with no changes to text) (Updates close with slide in Apple and S&P futures after the bell)   

By Caroline Valetkevitch   
   TDNEW YORK, Jan 22 (Reuters) - Recession worries pushed U.S. stocks lower on Tuesday, but the decline was shallower than feared as an emergency interest-rate cut by the Federal Reserve helped stabilize global markets after a two-day rout.   

The biggest reduction in the Fed's target lending rate in more than 23 years, announced about an hour before the U.S. stock market reopened after a long weekend, helped stem a global sell-off in equities that had chopped nearly $1 trillion off of investor wealth worldwide on Monday alone.   

It was the fifth day of losses for the U.S. market and included a brief dip by the Nasdaq into bear market territory. And even at the close, all three indexes remained within the bear's grasp.   

Analysts said declines could continue on Wednesday as a weaker-than-expected forecast by Apple Inc. hit shares of major technology companies after the closing bell.   

The decline in the regular session was fairly broad-based, with Procter & Gamble Co , the world's largest household products company, down 3 percent at $65.13, and Exxon Mobil , down 3.1 percent at $82.45, ranking among the biggest declining shares in both the Dow industrials and S&P 500.   

But investors bought financial stocks, which benefit from lower borrowing costs, as well as retailers. The financial sector was among the S&P 500's major gainers, while retailers led the Dow's advancers.   

"While people realize that (the rate cut) alone is not going to get us out of the woods, at least it was an attempt by the Fed to try to get a little more in front of the negativity as opposed to being reactionary," said Michael James, senior trader at regional investment bank Wedbush Morgan in Los Angeles.   

The Dow Jones industrial average <.DJI> was down 128.11 points, or 1.06 percent, at 11,971.19. The Standard & Poor's 500 Index <.SPX> was down 14.69 points, or 1.11 percent, at 1,310.50. The Nasdaq Composite Index <.IXIC> was down 47.75 points, or 2.04 percent, at 2,292.27.   

The Dow closed below 12,000 for the first time since Nov. 3, 2006, and trading was heavy, with New York Stock Exchange volume the fourth-highest on record.   

After the bell, shares of Apple Inc fell 9 percent to $140.68 as the company posted a second-quarter profit outlook below Wall Street's estimates. For details, see [ID:nWNAS7220]   

During the regular session, home builders also were in positive territory after the Fed cut interest rates by 75 basis points in an unusual decision between its regularly scheduled policy meetings. The Federal Open Market Committee is set to meet next Tuesday and Wednesday.   

The U.S. central bank's move followed two days of steep losses in Asian and European equities on worries that a deteriorating U.S. economy would drag other regions down with it.   

FEELING THE BEAR'S BREATH   

The Dow was down almost 465 points at its session low, while the Nasdaq dipped briefly into what is typically considered bear market territory, falling more than 20 percent from its 52-week closing high set in October.   

Even with the major indexes trimming some of the morning's steep losses, they still ended Tuesday's session close to bear market territory. The blue-chip Dow average ended down 15.5 percent from its October closing high above 14,000, while the S&P 500 finished down 16.3 percent from its October closing high, and the Nasdaq closed down 19.8 percent from its 2007 closing high, also set in October.   

Overseas stock losses were sharp on Monday when U.S. markets were closed for the Martin Luther King Jr. holiday, and the rout resumed on Tuesday until the Fed rate cut, which helped Latin American markets to rise and allowed the pan-European FTSEurofirst 300 index <.FTEU3> to end up 1.9 percent.   

The Fed's action took the key federal funds rate, which governs overnight lending between banks, down to 3.5 percent, its lowest level since September 2005. The Fed also lowered the discount rate it charges on direct bank loans to 4 percent.   

The price of U.S. oil futures dropped below $90 a barrel, weighing on Exxon Mobil and rivals.   

HOME DEPOT SHINES, APPLE FALLS   

The S&P index of retailers <.RLX> climbed 5.3 percent, the Dow Jones U.S. home construction index <.DJUSHB> gained 6.2 percent, while the S&P financial index <.GSPF> advanced 2.2 percent.   

Only eight of the Dow's 30 components finished higher, with two retailers leading this short list: Home Depot , up 7.3 percent at $28.20, and Wal-Mart Stores Inc , up 3.3 percent at $49.15 on the New York Stock Exchange.   

Apple, the iPod and iPhone maker, ended the regular session down 3.5 percent at $155.64, and was the heaviest weight on the Nasdaq. Other tech shares falling after the close included Google Inc. and Yahoo Inc   

About 2.59 billion shares changing hands, above last year's estimated daily average of roughly 1.9 billion, while on the Nasdaq, about 3.11 billion shares traded, exceeding last year's daily average of 2.17 billion.   

Declining stocks outnumbered advancing ones by a ratio of about 9 to 7 on the NYSE and by about 17 to 9 on Nasdaq. (Additional reporting by Jennifer Coogan; Editing by Jan Paschal)   
   RFMARKETS-STOCKS (UPDATE 17) (REPEAT)|LANGEN|DA|FN|NW|SW   NSm11 : Equity Markets | e1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPC.N | .N/C   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020080123e41n000hj  



 HDRPT-TREASURIES-Bonds rally as stocks end with more losses      WC637 words   PD23 January 2008   ET06:48   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited   
   LP(Repeats to additional subscribers with no changes to text) (Updates prices after stock market close)   

By Ellen Freilich   
   TDNEW YORK, Jan 22 (Reuters) - U.S. Treasuries advanced on Tuesday after an emergency interest rate cut by the Federal Reserve failed to staunch stock market losses and investors continued their safe-haven bid for government debt.   

The Fed's sharpest rate cut in 23 years did pull European stocks out of the deep slide in global equities on Monday, but U.S. stocks finished lower, with the Dow Jones industrial average <.DJI> falling 1.06 percent to 11,971.19 points.   

As investors worried that the sharp rate cut meant the Fed was alarmed about the economic outlook, bond prices rallied, pushing two-year yields to their lowest level since April 2004.   

"Bonds are hostage to equities," said William Sullivan, chief economist at JVB Financial Group in Boca Raton, Florida. "If there's a rebound in stocks there will be a hefty round of profit-taking in Treasuries that will push yields back up.   

"Conversely, if the equity market loses momentum and moves sharply lower in the days ahead, Treasury yields will continue to tumble," he said.   

The Fed cut its federal funds target rate by three-quarters of a percentage point to 3.50 percent, the lowest level since August 2005.   

The rate cut, a week before Fed policy-makers' next scheduled meeting, contrasted with the Fed's typically more gradual approach to adjustments in monetary policy.   

Traders and analysts said the Fed would need to cut rates further. A majority of primary government securities polled by Reuters on Tuesday said they expected the central bank to cut interest rates by another 50 basis points when Fed officials meet on Jan. 29-30.   

Tuesday's rate cut, the Fed's biggest easing in the fed funds rate since October 1984, occurred while U.S. Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson called for a government stimulus package, which some analysts dismissed as being too small to revive a deteriorating economy.   

In fact, more Wall Street analysts are predicting a U.S. recession this year. UBS on Tuesday became the latest firm to forecast the U.S. economy would contract in the first half of the year.   

GLOOMY OUTLOOK   

The economic outlook, plus the market turmoil, spurred investors weary of the stock market's wild gyrations to seek highly liquid and low-risk assets like U.S. government debt.   

As a result, the benchmark 10-year note <US10YT=RR> was up 1-11/32 in late trade, yielding 3.48 percent, versus 3.63 percent late on Friday. Bond yields and prices move inversely.   

U.S. financial markets were closed on Monday for the Martin Luther King Jr. Day holiday.   

Among shorter maturities, the two-year Treasury note <US2YT=RR> was up 18/32 in price, with its yield plunging 2.05 percent, down 30 basis points from late Friday, as traders bet that the Fed would need to slash benchmark U.S. rates more to keep the economy from slumping.   

The two-year yield fell briefly below 2 percent for the first time in nearly four years in overseas trading.   

The dramatic rate cut suggests "that the situation may be worse than people once envisioned and that bolder action is now required," said Sullivan of JVB Financial.   

However, Mike Schenk, senior economist at the Credit Union National Association in Madison, Wisconsin, said the Fed's 75 basis point cut could eventually be reassuring.   

"The Fed is sending a very clear signal to the financial markets that it will do everything it can to right the ship and keep it on course," he said. (Editing by Leslie Adler)   
   RFMARKETS-BONDS (UPDATE 8) (REPEAT)|LANGEN|DA|FN|NW|SW   NSm11 : Equity Markets | e1202 : Interest Rates | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCUS/ | US/N   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020080123e41n000hk  



 HDUPDATE 2-Thailand says U.S. cut a factor for rate policy      BYBy Boontiwa Wichakul      WC472 words   PD23 January 2008   ET07:45   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited   
   LP(Adds analyst comments, market reaction)   

BANGKOK, Jan 23 (Reuters) - The surprise rate cut by the U.S. Federal Reserve will be a factor in setting Thai interest rates, a senior central banker said on Wednesday, stirring expectations Thailand may trim its borrowing costs again.   
   TD"Our monetary policy is independent from the Fed. However, we will take into account the Fed fund rate too," Deputy Bank of Thailand Governor Atchana Waiquamdee told reporters a day after the Fed slashed its benchmark rate by 75 basis points.   

"Nobody knows for sure about the direction of capital movements," Atchana said.   

"If people think the U.S. economy will be bad after the rate cut, money may flow out of the United States to other countries. It depends on how much each country is linked to the U.S. economy."   

Bond yields <0#THTSY=> <0#THBMK=> fell by 20-25 basis points across the curve in the secondary market on Wednesday as investors saw Atchana's comments as suggesting interest rate cuts, dealers said.   

The Bank of Thailand has kept rates steady at 3.25 percent since July 2007 following a series of cuts, and in the past few weeks expectations grew rates would stay on hold for months to come and the next move was likely to be up.   

But the Fed's emergency move just a week before its regular meeting and the Thai central banker's comments made analysts start factoring in another rate cut.   

"In our view, there is already a clear sign that the BoT's monetary policy has now shifted to an easing bias," Standard Chartered Bank economist Usara Wilaipich said.   

"The hasty rate cut by the Fed should provide room and flexibility for the BoT to consider cutting rates sooner than expected in order to boost growth and reduce the baht appreciation," she said.   

Economist Vishnu Varathan of Forecast in Singapore agreed a rate easing was a possibility though Thailand's policymakers should not act in a knee-jerk fashion.   

"There seems to be room for a 25-50 bps cut if push comes to shove. But certainly, Thailand cannot look to move in lock-step with the Fed," he said.   

The Bank of Thailand will meet on Feb. 27 to review its policy.   

At 0900 GMT, the baht was little changed at 33.12/15 to the dollar onshore <THB=TH> and at 30.75/95 offshore <THB=W>.   

The Thai stock market, which was down 0.12 percent at midday before the central banker's remarks, was up 0.8 percent at 0900 GMT. (Additional reporting and writing by Orathai Sriring; Editing by Tomasz Janowski)   
   RFTHAILAND-ECONOMY/ (UPDATE 2)|LANGEN|ABN|M|E|RBN|D|SI|ABX|RNP|DNP   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REasiaz : Asia | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | thail : Thailand | usa : United States | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | namz : North America | seasiaz : Southeast Asia   IPCCEN | MCE | INT | FRX | ECI | PLCY | FED   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020080123e41n000lb  



 HDUPDATE 1-INTERVIEW-Saudi Fransi says rate cuts hurt bank profits      BYBy Souhail Karam      WC619 words   PD23 January 2008   ET11:19   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited   
   LP(Updates with quotes, background, details)   

RIYADH, Jan 23 (Reuters) -  Banque Saudi Fransi said interest rate cuts and lower brokerage income had hurt earnings in the fourth quarter after missing analysts' forecasts with its smallest profit since a 2006 stock market crash.   
   TDBanque Saudi Fransi was among four of the five largest Saudi banks to miss profit forecasts in the fourth quarter when the Saudi central bank slashed its deposit rate by 100 basis points to deter bets on the appreciation of its dollar-pegged riyal.   

The central bank also raised its reserve requirement for the first time in 27 years on Nov. 1, forcing banks to keep more money in their vaults to prevent lower interest rates from stoking inflation.   

The lower interest rates hit bank earnings by slashing the return lenders in world's largest oil exporter get on their funds as record crude prices bought cash pouring into the country, Saudi Fransi's Chief Financial Officer said on Tuesday.   

"We are awash with liquidity, so we put it in the money market," Philippe Touchard told Reuters in an interview on Tuesday.   

"But cuts in interest rates slashed returns. The more we are liquid, the less money we make when the rates are declining," he said.   

The Saudi central bank cut its deposit rate, the reverse repurchase rate, by a further 50 basis points on Wednesday after the U.S. Federal Reserve slashed borrowing costs by three quarters of a percentage point on Tuesday. The central bank also raised the reserve requirement to 10 percent of deposits from 9 percent.   

SMALLEST QUARTERLY PROFIT   

Saudi Fransi, 31 percent owned by France's Credit Agricole , made a net profit of 640.5 million riyals ($170.8 million) in the three months to Dec. 31, missing even the most pessimistic forecast in a Reuters survey last month.   

It was the bank's smallest quarterly profit since 2006 when the Saudi stock market lost half its value between February and July, slashing brokerage revenue and asset management revenue.   

Fransi's brokerage business, the kingdom's third largest, managed to retain market share of around 12 percent, but stock market related income fell 61 percent to 589 million riyals in 2007, Touchard said.   

That was because of decreasing trading volumes, he said, declining to give figures for the fourth quarter. Saudi companies publish detailed quarterly data about a week after releasing a headline figure.   

The Saudi benchmark, the worst performer among Arab markets in 2006, rallied almost 43 percent in the fourth quarter, better than any other in the region. Touchard said income from stock-market related business was hurt by around two weeks of holidays to mark the end of Islam's month-long Ramadan fast and the annual haj pilgrimage season.   

"In addition to this, volumes of transactions in the stock market were much higher when it was going down than they were when the bourse was recovering," he said. Trading volumes have fallen about 60 percent between 2006 and 2007, he said.   

Saudi Fransi, the kingdom's fourth-largest lender by market value, increased income from its core banking business by 28 percent to 3.1 billion riyals in 2007, Touchard said.   

"This shows that the kingdom has not been affected by the repercussions of the subprime crisis," he said of the global banking losses linked to defaults on U.S. home loans to the less creditworthy.   

"We are totally immune to the subprime crisis. We have not invested anything at all in these products," Touchard said. (Editing by Will Waterman)   
   RFSAUDIFRANSI-INTERESTRATES/ (UPDATE 1)|LANGEN|ABN|E|RBN|D|GFN|MD|M   COalbfra : Banque Saudi Fransi   INibnk : Banking/Credit | i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News   REasiaz : Asia | eurz : Europe | fra : France | meastz : Middle East | saarab : Saudi Arabia | usa : United States | weurz : Western Europe | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | eecz : European Union Countries | gulfstz : Persian Gulf Regions | medz : Mediterranean | namz : North America | wasiaz : Western Asia   IPCBNK | FIN | CEN | MCE | BANK | BSVC | FINS | CPX   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020080123e41n000yi  



 HDIndian rate swaps at 2-yr lows after U.S. rate cuts      WC198 words   PD23 January 2008   ET11:27   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited   
   LPMUMBAI, Jan 23 (Reuters) - Indian overnight indexed swaps eased to fresh two-year lows on Wednesday, after the U.S. Federal Reserve cut rates, raising expectations the Reserve Bank of India could follow suit to lower the interest rate differential.   

At 3:50 p.m., the five-year swap rate <INROIS> was at 6.44/6.46 percent, which was its lowest since Jan. 18, 2006.   
   TD"Sentiment has turned very bullish after the Fed rate cuts," a trader with a foreign bank, said.   

The Fed cut interest rates by 75 basis points to 3.5 percent on Tuesday in a surprise move and dealers said the widening rate differential may create arbitrage opportunities and increase capital inflows, pressuring the rupee higher.   

To cap its gains, India's central bank has been buying dollars flooding the system with inflation-fuelling excess cash.   

RBI Governor Yaga Venugopal Reddy said earlier this week the risk of a U.S. recession would be an important factor at the policy review on Jan. 29. (Reporting by Anurag Joshi; Editing by Prem Udayabhanu)   
   RFMARKETS-INDIA-SWAPS|LANGEN|SNI|DNP   NSm131 : Money Markets | m15 : Derivative Securities | e1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REasiaz : Asia | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | india : India | usa : United States | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | indsubz : Indian Subcontinent | namz : North America | sasiaz : Southern Asia   IPCMMT | DBT | DRV | INT | MCE   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020080123e41n000z2  



 HDDAVOS-US Treasury official says extensive intl cooperation      BYBy Mike Dolan      WC599 words   PD23 January 2008   ET21:52   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited   
   LPDAVOS, Switzerland, Jan 23 (Reuters) - The U.S. Treasury and Federal Reserve have had an enormous amount of cooperation with overseas counterparts on recent economy-boosting measures, the Treasury's top international diplomat said on Wednesday.   

In an interview with Reuters on the sidelines of the annual World Economic Forum in Davos, Treasury Under Secretary for International Affairs David McCormick said he was puzzled by concern at the Davos meeting about a lack of coordination on the recent financial and economic turmoil.   
   TD"There has been an enormous amount of cooperation that has taken place within the context of near-term policy decisions," McCormick told Reuters in the Swiss ski resort where some 2,500 business and government leaders are meeting this week.   

Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson and the Fed have extensive contact with their counterparts among the Group of Seven economic powers and elsewhere on short-term policies, he said, referring to the Fed's dramatic interest rate cut this week and last week's plans for a U.S. fiscal stimulus.   

"At the G7, these will not be people who have not talked about these problems since they last met," he said, referring to the G7 finance chiefs' meeting in Tokyo next month.   

"I don't want to prejudge what would be in any (G7) communique but this (the current financial and economic concerns) will be the centrepoint of any discussions."   

McCormick said the G7's Financial Stability Forum, in conjunction with the International Monetary Fund, was also involved in a key international effort to address the root causes and appropriate responses to the credit crunch that is sapping economic growth.   

The FSF, under Bank of Italy chief Mario Draghi, is expected to make an "interim report" to the February G7 meeting, he said, and that will focus on greater credit market transparency, market liquidity, the role of credit ratings agencies, and financial supervision.   

FASTER YUAN RISE   

McCormick said the role of China and other leading emerging economies was also just as important, given the growth of their share of the global economy.   

As part of helping a better balance in the world economy, he urged China to sustain the recent acceleration of the yuan's rise against the dollar and other currencies and its moves to make the yuan exchange rate more market-based.   

Referring to a more flexible yuan as still a top priority, McCormick added: "We have seen movement there."   

"The (Chinese) currency has appreciated nominally about 14.5 percent since July 2005 and on trade-weighted terms about six percent," he said. "And in the last 90 days we've seen even greater appreciation ."   

"We would just encourage the Chinese to continue to maintain that accelerated pace."   

Elsewhere, McCormick said the United States welcomed investment from huge sovereign wealth funds set up mostly by developing countries to recycle windfalls from export- or commodity-led economic booms.   

As long as the investments remained long-term and commercially, not politically, focused, there was nothing to worry about the recent stakes taken by Middle Eastern and Asian funds in big U.S. banks, he said.   

The IMF should merely develop a list of guidelines and best practices for these funds and the supervisory bodies of the receiving countries, McCormick added.   

For full coverage, blogs and TV from Davos see:   http://uk.reuters.com/news/globalcoverage/worldeconomicforum2008   (Reporting by Mike Dolan, Editing by Chizu Nomiyama)   
   RFDAVOS/MCCORMICK (INTERVIEW)|LANGEN|ABN|M|D|E|RBN|U|MNI|J|UKI|CANT|Z|ABX|BNX|RNP|DNP   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecbnk : European Central Bank | gseven : Group of Seven | ecat : Economic News | eec : European Union | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations   REasiaz : Asia | cana : Canada | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | fra : France | gfr : Germany | italy : Italy | uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | weurz : Western Europe | switz : Switzerland | medz : Mediterranean | namz : North America   IPCWASH | MCE | PLCY | FED | ECB | G7 | EU | STIR | INT | EURO | EMBG:PLCY | embargokeyE1R1:1   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020080123e41n0024b  



 HDTREASURIES-Bonds rally on global equity sell-off      BYBy Richard Leong      WC423 words   PD22 January 2008   ET13:41   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited   
   LPNEW YORK, Jan 22 (Reuters) - U.S. Treasuries rallied on Tuesday, as benchmark yields fell to 4-1/2 year lows on a stampede into safe-haven assets and speculations that the Federal Reserve may cut interest rates prior to next week's policy meeting.   

Growing fears of a worldwide slowdown led by the possibility of a U.S. recession have rattled investor confidence, driven money out of stocks and riskier assets into the relative safety and liquidity of U.S. government debt.   
   TD"People are looking at extreme safety, and that's U.S. Treasuries. It's really the last man standing," said Doug Roberts, chief investment strategist at Channel Capital Research in Shrewsbury, New Jersey.   

U.S. stock futures are expected to open sharply lower following heavy losses in Japan and a roller-coaster session so far in Europe.   

Dow Jones Industrial average futures shed more than 500 points after the U.S. financial markets were shut on Monday for the Martin Luther King holiday. For more details see [ID:nN22468100].   

The sharp downturn in global equities, together with protracted problems plaguing the U.S. housing and mortgage markets, have spurred bets that the Fed would be forced to pare the key federal funds rate prior to its Jan. 29-30 meeting.   

U.S. interest rate futures suggested that traders were pricing in the likelihood that Fed would lower the borrowing cost of surplus reserves between banks at least three-quarter of a percentage point by next week.   

Given the lack of major economic data and Fed official speeches this week, Treasuries will be tied closely to the stock market, analysts said.   

The flight into ultra-safe investment pushed the two-year Treasuries yield <US2YT=RR> briefly below 2 percent for the first time in nearly four years in overseas trading.   

The two-year Treasury yield is now more than two percentage points below overnight rates, underscoring the expectations for an aggressive Fed response to help the economy.   

Benchmark 10-year note's price <US10YT=RR> was up 1-5/32, coming off from a 1-24/32 gain in overseas trading. Its yield which moves inversely with its price was 3.492 percent, down 15 basis points from Friday, after sagging to 3.473 percent, its lowest since mid-2003. (Reporting by Richard Leong; Editing by Theodore d'Afflisio)   
   RFMARKETS-BONDS/|LANGEN|ABN|C|D|E|M|O|U|MTL|GRO|SOF|OIL|J|UKI|AUF|DNP   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | m131 : Money Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ntop : Dow Jones/Reuters Top Wire News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCDBT | GVD | MUNI | INT | MCE | STIR | MMT | NEWS | US/ | US/N | EMBG:DBT | embargokeyE1R1:1   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020080122e41m0011r  



 HDPaulson calls Fed emergency rate cut "constructive"      WC127 words   PD22 January 2008   ET14:44   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited   
   LPWASHINGTON, Jan 22 (Reuters) - U.S. Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson said on Tuesday that the Federal Reserve's emergency interest rate cut was constructive and should help boost confidence amid volatile world financial markets.   

"This is very constructive and I think it shows this country and the rest of the world that our central bank is nimble and can move quickly in response to market conditions," Paulson said.   
   TDThe Fed slashed benchmark U.S. interest rates by a hefty three-quarters of a percentage point on Tuesday in an effort to support a weak U.S. economy. (Editing by Tom Hals)   
   RFUSA-FED/PAULSON (URGENT)|LANGEN|ABN|C|D|E|M|O|U|MTL|GRO|SOF|OIL   NSc181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | e1122 : Mortgage Applications/Refinancing | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | e1202 : Interest Rates | m131 : Money Markets | ntop : Dow Jones/Reuters Top Wire News | c18 : Ownership Changes | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCFED | FIN | CEN | MCE | WASH | REAM | NEWS | GVD | DBT | INT | MMT | STIR | MTG   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020080122e41m0015q  



 HDINSTANT VIEW 3-Fed cuts target rate in surprise move by 75 bps      WC765 words   PD22 January 2008   ET14:47   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited   
   LP NEW YORK, Jan 22 (Reuters) - The U.S. Federal Reserve on Tuesday slashed the benchmark federal funds target rate by 75 basis points to 3.5 percent in a surprise intermeeting decision.   

 Story: [ID:nWAT008737] Text: [ID:nN22475900]   
   TD COMMENTS:   

 MATTHEW SHARRATT, ECONOMIST, BANK OF AMERICA, LONDON:   

 "It's certainly a surprise move. The Fed has clearly emphasised the downside risks to growth and felt it needed to counteract this with an immediate 75 basis point move.   

 "We cannot discount the Fed will have to move further. Whether this will be enough to fend off the headwinds the U.S. we will have to see."   

 MARK MEADOWS, CURRENCY STRATEGIST, TEMPUS CONSULTING, WASHINGTON:   

 "Under any other Fed this would not be a surprise, but this Fed has been reluctant to cater to market expectations. This should support the euro in the short term, however our longstanding view is still that the U.S. economy will rebound and help the dollar gain into the middle of this year."   

 PETER BOOCKVAR, EQUITY STRATEGIST, MILLER TABAK & CO., NEW YORK:   

 "The inter-meeting was unexpected, but Fed funds futures were saying they were going to cut 75 basis points next week. So we got that today instead of next Wednesday. This was obviously a panic relief type of move."   

 RON SIMPSON, DIRECTOR OF CURRENCY RESEARCH, ACTION ECONOMCIS, TAMPA, FLORIDA:   

 "This is a gutless move by the Fed. If anything this move just fuels panic trades further. And the markets are pricing in more rate cuts next week. The dollar's reaction was mixed after the Fed decision -- it was lower vs the euro but higher against the yen because equity futures shot up. Ultimately, this is bad for the dollar as the markets try top price in a gutless U.S. central bank."   

 KEVIN FLANAGAN, FIXED INCOME STRATEGIST FOR GLOBAL WEALTH MANAGEMENT WITH MORGAN STANLEY IN PURCHASE, NEW YORK:   

 "You are seeing Treasuries sell off a bit."   

 "I am not really sure if the Fed moving a week ahead of time does anything from an economic standpoint, but what they are trying to do is address heightened levels of anxiety in the financial market."   

 BOB MACINTOSH, CHIEF ECONOMIST AT EATON VANCE:   

 "This is a surprise, but then again considering what has been happening in the last 48 hours, it is really not a surprise. (The Fed) realizes it is behind the curve. This is more of a psychological move than anything else with the Fed clearly trying to tell us that they are giving us a hug. It should help turn things around. Let's see."   

 JOHN TIERNEY, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK, NEW YORK:   

 "The Fed is very, very, very worried. For now it's going to put a floor on the market. Markets may perk up a bit until it figures out what this means."   

 DUSTIN REID, CURRENCY STRATEGIST, ABN AMRO, CHICAGO:   

 "The Fed is going to be there for liquidity purposes no matter what. They weren't prepared to wait for next week. There's a Bank of Canada meeting this morning so maybe there is a bit of coordination of cutting. It's good news for local market currencies and good news for high-yielding currencies."   

 WILLIAM O'DONNELL, DIRECTOR OF INTEREST RATE STRATEGY, UBS SECURITIES LLC, NEW YORK:   

 "This should stem some of the bleeding in stocks. If stocks roar back, it will be negative for yields. The Fed seems committed to get the economy off the floor."   

 MICHAEL METZ, CHIEF INVESTMENT STRATEGIST AT OPPENHEIMER & CO IN NEW YORK:   

 "That should moderate the decline, but frankly I think we're in for a forced liquidiation phase which has further to run, maybe another day or two.   

 The Fed is obviously panicked, but unfortunately they have no power to reverse what in my opinion is the worst post-war recession.   

 "I hate to be cute, but I think we're in for wild swings. I'd look to buy on weakness late in afternoon or on early tomororrow on another wave of forced liquidation."   

 MARKET REACTION:   

 - BONDS: U.S. Treasuries pared gains. They had been sharply higher earlier in the session in a flight-to-safety bid amid a global equities sell off.   

 - CURRENCIES: The dollar fell sharply It was higher beforehand.   

 - US STOCKS: U.S. equity index futures moved off session lows. Futures were dramatically lower beforehand. They still point to a drop in U.S. stock indexes when the market opens at 9:30 ET (1430 GMT)    
   RFLANGEN|GNN   NSnedc : Commentary/Opinion | e1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020080122e41m0015z  



 HDChilean stocks bounce back after U.S. rate cut      WC98 words   PD22 January 2008   ET14:34   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited   
   LPSANTIAGO, Jan 22 (Reuters) Chilean stocks <.IPSA> moved into positive territory in early trade on Tuesday following the announcement by the U.S. Federal Reserve of a U.S. interest rate cut.   

Chile's blue-chip IPSA index had fallen more than 2 percent in opening trade, but it bounced back and was up 2.16 percent at 2,479.63 (Reporting by Rodrigo Martinez; Writing by Helen Popper, , editing by Walker Simon)   
   RFMARKETS-CHILE/CHANGE (URGENT)|LANGEN|ABN|E|RBN|M|U|D|RNP|DNP   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | m11 : Equity Markets | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REchil : Chile | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | usa : United States | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | lamz : Latin America | namz : North America | samz : South America   IPCSTX | .SN   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020080122e41m00161  



 HDUS RATE FUTURES-See 50 bps cut likely at FOMC meet      WC282 words   PD22 January 2008   ET14:36   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited   
   LP(Adds details)   

CHICAGO, Jan 22 (Reuters) - U.S. short-term interest rate futures rallied sharply on Tuesday in anticipation of more Federal Reserve rate cuts this month after the Fed stepped in to slash its benchmark lending rate by 75 basis points.   
   TDThe Fed's emergency rate cut, more than a week before its scheduled policy meeting, lowered the fed funds rate to 3.5 percent at a time many fear the U.S. economy is on the verge of, or might have already entered, a recession.   

Futures price another 25 basis point rate cut at the Federal Open Market Committee's Jan 29-30 meeting. They also show a 78 percent chance the Fed will cut by another 50 basis points, which would put fed funds at 3 percent.   

In a statement, the FOMC said it moved "in view of a weakening of the economic outlook and increasing downside risks to growth."   

The Chicago Fed's national activity index, also released on Tuesday, was weaker in December and very close to flashing a recession signal, reflecting broad-based weakness across a range of indicators.   

"The economic data will continue to worsen; this move is not an instant fix. The economy is still staring recession in the face, but at least the Fed now gets it," said Ian Shepherdson, chief U.S. economist at High Frequency Economics in Valhalla, New York.   

Futures suggest deeper rate cuts ahead over the next few months, taking fed funds by mid-year to about 2.25 percent.   
   RFMARKETS-RATEFUTURES-FED (UPDATE 1)|LANGEN|ABN|E|RBN|D|U|M|MNI|RNP|DNP   NSe1201 : Central Bank Intervention | e1202 : Interest Rates | m131 : Money Markets | m15 : Derivative Securities | ntop : Dow Jones/Reuters Top Wire News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCDBT | GVD | INT | MCE | STIR | NEWS | MMT | DRV | FED | CEN   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020080122e41m0016b  



 HDWRAPUP 2-ECB holds tough line on inflation, no comment on Fed      BYBy Henrique Almeida and Ingrid Melander      WC899 words   PD22 January 2008   ET16:58   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited   
   LP(Adds remarks by ECB's Papademos, Stark; Eurogroup's Juncker)   

BRUSSELS/LISBON, Jan 22 (Reuters) - European Central Bank policymakers held their tough line on inflation risks on Tuesday despite fresh turmoil on financial markets and an emergency cut in U.S. interest rates.   
   TDThe ECB declined to comment on the U.S. Federal Reserve's 75-basis-point interest rate cut, which took U.S rates below the euro zone's for the first time since late 2004 and surprised some people at the ECB as well as market participants.   

But Luxembourg Prime Minister Jean-Claude Juncker, who sits in on ECB Governing Council meetings, said he did not expect the ECB to follow suit, and comments by ECB policymakers suggested there was no consensus for such a move.   

Executive Board members Juergen Stark and Jose Manuel Gonzalez-Paramo said the euro zone's economic fundamentals were sound, and pointed to continued upward pressure on inflation, a stance echoed by German Bundesbank President Axel Weber.   

Nonetheless, there was some division on the economic outlook. Portuguese central bank governor Vitor Constancio said European growth could be slower than earlier expected, comments which were in line with growing market expectations that the ECB may have to change tack before the end of the year.   

The ECB has kept interest rates at 4.0 percent since mid-2007 but economists believe the Governing Council is increasingly squeezed by the prospect of slower growth on the one hand and price risks on the other.   

"Our main concern is the high inflation rate of 3.1 percent" in the euro zone, Stark said, adding that the ECB was "very worried and alarmed" about inflation in an interview with German newspaper Die Zeit conducted on Tuesday after the Fed decision.   

Earlier, giving a speech in Brussels, Stark also passed up on the opportunity to comment on the rate cuts by the Fed and the  Bank of Canada, saying he had only just received the news and did not know all the details. "I have to talk to my colleagues," he told reporters.   

But Juncker told Luxembourg television later in the day that he did not think the ECB would follow the Fed's lead.   

"The central bank is right to advocate price stability. I don't expect the ECB to take a similar rate step as the American central bank, meaning to adjust rates downwards," he said.   

INFLATION VS GROWTH   

Gonzalez-Paramo said the ECB would, as always, do what was needed to protect price stability, but that it was not possible to say how market turmoil would influence inflation. For its part, growth was still holding up.   

"The main scenario is growth consistent with potential, which is around two percent," he told Portuguese broadcaster SIC before the Fed announcement. "The fundamentals of the European economy remain solid."   

Weber said the ECB would not allow current inflation at 6-1/2-year highs to spill over into wage demands and consumer prices. "We have zero tolerance for a wage-price spiral. If financial and wage developments threaten to leave the stability corridor, we will act decisively," he said in an interview with German magazine Focus Money.   

ECB Vice President Lucas Papademos, speaking in Luxembourg, also said it was "more important than ever" that central banks did not take their eye off inflation.   

But he was guarded about the ECB's outlook for growth of around 2 percent this year, which three policymakers have called into doubt in the past week.   

"There is a lot of uncertainty ... for a few months we have stressed the existence of heightened uncertainty and downside risk."   

"It is not unimaginable that economic activity will be sustained at a level close to potential growth.   

Constancio struck a more cautious note on inflation, noting that this was also influenced by real economic developments, and said Europe would not be immune to the rising risk of a U.S. recession.   

"Certainly the probability has increased and that's a consequence of a revision of expectations by investors worldwide," he told Reuters during a conference in Lisbon.   

Stark and Weber played down the prospect of a U.S. recession, saying growth should continue albeit at a weaker pace.   

They also shrugged off renewed turbulence on financial markets, after European shares sank 6 percent on Monday, their biggest one-day slide since the Sept. 11, 2001 attacks amid concern about the scale of the U.S. economic slowdown and fears of more financial sector losses.   

"Financial markets tend to overreact," Gonzalez-Paramo said. "There is overshooting and undershooting. I would not make a full story out of what happened yesterday."   

Stark repeated earlier calls for more transparency and said the process of market correction would probably continue for a while.   

"The markets are very nervous," he said. "But we are seeing an overreaction. Fear and panic are bad advisers. We should not forget the facts. Fundamental economic data are good." (Additional reporting by Sergio Goncalves in Lisbon, Philip Blenkinsop and Michele Sinner in Luxembourg and Klaus Lauer and Iain Rogers in Berlin; writing by David Milliken and Krista Hughes; editing by David Stamp)   
   RFMARKET-SELLOFF/ECB (WRAPUP 2)|LANGEN|ABN|C|D|E|M|O|U|MTL|GRO|SOF|OIL|UKI|J|Z|DNP   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecbnk : European Central Bank | m131 : Money Markets | ntop : Dow Jones/Reuters Top Wire News | e52 : Euro Zone/Currency | ecat : Economic News | eec : European Union | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations   REbelg : Belgium | cana : Canada | eurz : Europe | gfr : Germany | lux : Luxembourg | usa : United States | weurz : Western Europe | benluxz : Benelux Countries | eecz : European Union Countries | namz : North America   IPCECB | STIR | MCE | MMT | DBT | CEN | INT | PLCY | NEWS | FED | BBK   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020080122e41m001hb  



 HDWRAPUP 1- Bank of Canada opts for mild rate cut despite Fed      BYBy Louise Egan      WC710 words   PD22 January 2008   ET17:10   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited   
   LPOTTAWA, Jan 22 (Reuters) - The  Bank of Canada held back in the face of an aggressive interest rate cut by the U.S. Federal Reserve on Tuesday, shaving just a quarter-point off its own key rate, but it signaled more cuts to come as U.S. recession worries spiral.   

In a regularly scheduled announcement, the central bank lowered its overnight lending rate to 4 percent from 4.25 percent. It was the bank's second straight quarter-point cut as it seeks to protect the Canadian economy from the severe slowdown or even recession that faces Canada's top trading partner.   
   TDThe move came shortly after the Fed slashed its federal funds rate by 75 basis points to 3.5 percent. It disappointed a growing number of market players who are calling for a bolder rate cut by Canada to match the Fed.   

"The  Bank of Canada is clearly stubborn, not wanting to cut by more than 25 basis points and I think the market is quite disappointed," said Eric Lascelles, chief economics and rates strategist at TD Securities.   

Ted Carmichael, chief economist at  JP Morgan Canada, said the bank "did what was expected a week ago and hasn't reacted whatsoever to developments in financial markets in the past week."   

The  Bank of Canada, which prepared its rate announcement on Monday, opted not to alter its decision at the last minute in reaction to the Fed move.   

While warning that Canada's exports will be hit by the U.S. slowdown, the bank emphasized that high commodity prices will continue to help keep Canada's economy buoyant.   

"Despite tighter credit conditions, domestic demand is projected to remain strong," the bank said in its statement.   

Retail sales for November rose by a stronger-than-expected 0.7 percent, new data showed on Tuesday.   

However, the bank left the door wide open to future rate cuts. "Further monetary stimulus is likely to be required in the near term to keep aggregate supply and demand in balance and to return inflation to target over the medium term."   

Given the massive selloff in world stock markets and the quickly-worsening outlook for the United States, Canada's central bank might consider cutting rates in between scheduled announcement dates, some analysts said.   

The Toronto stock index plunged 4.75 percent on Monday in its biggest drop in more than seven years, but turned higher on Tuesday.   

The bank has only made a surprise rate move once since adopting a fixed schedule for rate announcements in November 2000 -- a 50 basis point cut six days after the Sept. 11, 2001 attacks in the United States.   

DODGE'S LAST HURRAH   

The rate decision was the last under Governor David Dodge, who hands the baton to Mark Carney on Feb. 1, and some analysts believe the symbolism weighed into the bank's decision.   

"This is Dodge's last hurrah and he may have wished to pass things along in a somewhat conservative fashion and not commit on Carney's behalf without Carney really getting to take the reins here," Lascelles said.   

Hinting at revised projections scheduled for release on Thursday, the central bank said its 2008 outlook for the U.S. economy is now "significantly weaker" than the 2.1 percent it forecast in October. The Canadian economy will move into a situation of excess supply in the second quarter of this year, it said.   

However, it said the economy is still running at above capacity despite slowing in the fourth quarter.   

The bank's quarterly business survey showed the portion of firms with some degree of difficulty meeting increased demand shot up to a record high of 60 percent in the fourth quarter, a sign of inflationary pressure.   

Inflation projections are now being revised downward, with both total and core consumer inflation now expected to dip below 1.5 percent by mid-2008 before returning to the bank's 2 percent target by the end of 2009. (Reporting by Louise Egan; Editing by Peter Galloway)   
   RFCANADA-BANK/ (WRAPUP 1)|LANGEN|CANT|ABN|D|E|RBN|M|U|C|GRO|MTL|SOF|O|OIL|RNP|DNP|PCM|PEN   NSm131 : Money Markets | e1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REcana : Canada | usa : United States | namz : North America   IPCINT | MCE | DBT | CEN | FRX | STX | MMT | GVD | EMBG:DBT | embargokeyE1R1:1   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020080122e41m001i6  
 Page 1 of 1      2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.


 

 Page 1      2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.

