 


 HDOverview: Investors heartened by US rate-cutting   BYBy Dave Shellock      WC759 words   PD29 October 2008   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved   
   LPInvestor risk appetite received a boost on Wednesday amid hopes that a 50 basis point interest rate cut by the Federal Reserve would be followed with moves by other central banks around the world.

The US central bank lowered its Fed funds target rate to 1 per cent, the lowest since June 2004. The move marked the Fed's ninth easing since September last year, when rates stood at 5.25 per cent.
   TDThe tabular content relating to this article is not available to view. Apologies in advance for the inconvenience caused.

Expectations were high that the Bank of Japan would announce a quarter-point easing on Thursday, with the European Central Bank and the Bank of England following suit next week. On Wednesday, the People's Bank of China cut its key lending rate for the third time in two months while Norway's central bank eased 50bp to 4.75 per cent - its second cut this month - and indicated that more was to come.

"The race towards lower rates has just begun and it may not be over until all major policy rates have hit historic lows," said Christoph Rieger, strategist at Dresdner Kleinwort.

The most dramatic market impact on Wednesday came from reports that the Bank of Japan was considering a 25bp easing from the current level of 0.5 per cent. The yen retreated from recent multi-year highs, helping Japanese equities rise sharply.

"We believe the BoJ has to deliver to avoid disappointing the markets," said Julian Jessop, chief international economist at Capital Economics.

"The BoJ will also have to be seen to be doing something in an environment where the US in particular is sliding into a deep recession and other central banks are continuing to cut rates aggressively. We therefore think that rates will be cut all the way to zero again in the coming months."

Meanwhile, the path to another rate cut by the European Central Bank was smoothed by data showing a third successive monthly drop in German inflation.

"With an almost 'all-clear' from the inflation side and the real economy caught in the maelstrom of the financial crisis, the door is wide open for rate cuts in November and December," said Carsten Brzeski at ING.

Analysts see similarly few obstacles to further rate cuts by the Bank of England, starting at next week's meeting of its monetary policy committee. Stuart Thomson, chief economist at Resolution Asset Management, said he was confident that UK rates would be reduced by at least 150bp over the next six months and 250bp over the next year.

The rate optimism triggered a broad advance for global equity markets . In Tokyo, the Nikkei 225 climbed 7.7 per cent while the pan-European FTSE Eurofirst 300 index rose 7.5 per cent.

Wall Street see-sawed immediately after the Fed's move. By late trade in New York, the S&P 500 was 0.3 per cent lower, after soaring 10.8 per cent on Tuesday.

Credit spreads tightened in Europe and the US. The iTraxx Crossover index of mostly junk-rated European credits - a key barometer of risk appetite - narrowed 12bp to 838bp.

In the money markets, interbank dollar rates continued to fall, although the spread of three-month dollar Libor against Overnight Index Swaps - an important measure of stress - widened slightly.

The improved market tone spread to emerging market assets, with a $25bn bail-out package for Hungary adding to the positive mood. The MSCI EM equity index continued to rebound from Monday's four-year low, with the Russian RTS index leaping 12 per cent and Brazilian stocks up 4.6 per cent.

EM currencies were broadly higher, credit spreads tightened and debt spreads over US Treasuries continued to ease from six-year highs.

In the currency markets , the dollar relinquished some of its recent gains as the improvement in risk appetite brought a recent bout of deleveraging to a halt. The yen also staged a broad retreat.

US government bonds were mixed following the Fed's rate cut.

The yield on the 10-year Treasury was 3bp lower at 3.82 per cent while the two-year yield was up 6bp at 1.56 per cent.

Commodities staged a strong rebound on the back of the weaker dollar and firmer equities. US oil prices climbed back towards $69 a barrel, gold touched $773 an ounce and copper jumped as much as 14 per cent.
   RF20081029_16184_481.xml   INi81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | i814 : Banking   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCEN | EN02 | EN0208   IPDEconomic Indicators | Economic News | Interest Rates   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTCOM00020081029e4at005bq  



 HD Interest rate  cuts by Fed and Beijing   BYBy Krishna Guha in Washington and Michiyo Nakamoto in Tokyo      WC481 words   PD29 October 2008   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved   
   LPThe US and China both cut interest rates on Wednesday, with the US Federal Reserve cutting interest rates by half a point to 1 per cent, a level equalled only once before in 2003.

The Fed cut was intended to offset the sharp tightening in credit conditions in the past two months that threatens to plunge a weakening economy into a deep recession.
   TDUS stocks swung wildly in the immediate aftermath of the Fed's move. By mid-afternoon in New York, the S&P 500 was down 0.3 per cent at 938.11.

The US central bank said the pace of economic activity had "slowed markedly, owing importantly to a decline in consumer expenditures". Business spending was also weaker and the global growth slowdown was "dampening the prospects for US exports".

It added that the "intensification of financial market turmoil" was "likely to exert additional restraint on spending". There were also uncomfirmed reports that the US authorities were working on a mortgage loan guarantee programme to ease the stress in the housing market.

The Fed action followed the third cut in interest rates in six weeks by the People's Bank of China, which said the benchmark rate for one-year loans by commercial banks would fall by 27 basis points to 6.66 per cent.

The central bank gave no reason for its rate cut. But the last cut earlier this month also coincided with announcements of looser monetary policy by western counterparts. The Bank of England and the European Central Bank - which have cut rates much less than the Fed over the past year - are expected to ease aggressively in coming days.

In Tokyo, there were heightened expectations that the Bank of Japan would cut rates tomorrow for the first time in seven years following a fall of 1.2 per cent in industrial output in the quarter to September.

The fall was the third consecutive quarterly decline, marking the longest series of quarterly declines since 2001, when Japan was in recession and output fell for four quarters in a row.

Swap contracts on the overnight call rate suggested that investors were pricing in a 70 per cent chance of a quarter-point rate cut from 0.5 per cent, compared with less than 20 per cent on Tuesday.

The yen rose by 1.7 per cent to Y97.00 against the dollar.

Rate cut speculation helped Japanese shares to rally for a second day, with the Nikkei 225 average rising 7.7 per cent to 8,211.90. The FTSE Asia Pacific index gained 3.3 per cent to 150.30.

In Shanghai the composite index fell 2.9 per cent to close down at 1,719.812, its lowest close since September 2006.
   RF20081029_16184_483.xml   INi81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | i814 : Banking   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News   REchina : China | usa : United States | asiaz : Asia | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America   IPCEN | EN02 | EN0208   IPDEconomic Indicators | Economic News | Interest Rates   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTCOM00020081029e4at005eh  



 HDUS rate expectations   WC450 words   PD29 October 2008   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved   
   LPJust five years on since the last time, the mighty US of A finds itself again at basket-case interest rate levels. On Wednesday, the Federal Reserve slashed the benchmark rate by 50 basis points to just 1 per cent and left the way open for further cuts. It is amazing that just 14 months ago the Federal funds rate was 5.75 per cent. But it should not be a surprise. After the technology bubble burst, rates fell by almost 5 per cent in a year.

Irrespective of whether this latest series of panic cuts helps to buoy markets (Wednesday's lacklustre response was not encouraging), investors must surely now question the reverence they have previously shown the Fed. Arguing if policy makers are "in front of or behind the curve" is moot. Rate reductions of this magnitude show clearly that chairman Ben Bernanke (and Alan Greenspan before him) have no more clues as to the direction of the economy than Joe Sixpack.
   TDBeing reactive, however, does not render the Fed impotent. At the margin, lower rates will help. More important is that the Fed's other responses to the crisis appear to be working and will probably do more to help aggregate demand than lowering headline interest rates. For example, after it started buying short-term debt from banks and companies on Monday, three-month issuance - which had virtually ceased since Lehman Brothers collapsed - leapt to $67bn the following day.

So what next? Obsessing over the coming months about whether the benchmark rate is heading to zero or not is wasting time. Investors instead should monitor the Fed's half dozen-odd other initiatives to see if banks are lending to each other - and to the wider economy - again. If credit markets stabilise, a severe recession can be avoided. Attention should then turn to prices. Only if core deflation is avoided will the Fed's interest rate cuts gain traction.

To e-mail the Lex team confidentially click here

OR

To post public comments click here

Lex is the FT's agenda-setting column, giving an authoritative view on corporate and financial matters. It is also one of the few parts of FT.com available only to Premium subscribers. This article is provided for free as an example. A Premium subscription gives you unlimited access to all FT content, including all Lex articles and the FT mobile Newsreader.

Subscribe now

If you have questions or comments, please e-mail help@ft.com or call:

US and Canada: +1 800 628 8088

Asia: +852 2905 5555

UK, Europe & Rest of the world: +44 (0)20 7775 6248
   RF20081029_16184_571.xml   INi81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | i814 : Banking   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCEN | EN02 | EN0208   IPDEconomic Indicators | Economic News | Interest Rates   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTCOM00020081030e4at00003  



 HDFed Steps Up Assault on Slump --- U.S. Is Joined in Rate Cuts by China, Norway; Doubts Linger on Easing's Impact   BYBy Jon Hilsenrath, Joellen Perry and Liz Rappaport    WC1,655 words   PD30 October 2008   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGA1   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 2008, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LPCorrections &Amplifications

The green line in a front-page chart yesterday that accompanied an article on global rate cuts showed the yields on the Lehman Brothers U.S. Aggregate Index, which includes several types of investment-grade debt, including corporate debt. The line was incorrectly labeled as investment-grade corporate-bond yields.
   TD(WSJ October 31, 2008)

(END)

Central banks around the world have unleashed a new assault on the global economic downturn, with Wednesday's interest-rate cut by the U.S. Federal Reserve accompanied by cuts in China and Norway and several other central banks expected to follow suit.

The Federal Reserve, already more than a year into a rate-cutting campaign that has been more aggressive than any other central bank's, pushed its benchmark federal-funds rate down half a percentage point, to 1%.

The central bank has now moved rates back to a low last reached in 2003 and 2004, long after the 2001 recession ended. The return to that level raises a host of new questions that U.S. policy makers will now need to consider, including how much lower rates can go and how well the Fed's cuts are working.

For now, credit remains tight for many homeowners, and borrowing costs have soared for many businesses. However, the Fed's interest-rate moves to date have likely provided an important cushion to the economy. Without them, Fed officials believe, borrowing costs for households and businesses would be even higher.

Markets signaled that investors were continuing to shed the extreme caution of recent weeks. Treasury bonds were essentially flat on the day as investors returned to slightly riskier assets, sending some corporate-bond prices higher. Late in New York, the British pound and the Canadian dollar strengthened against the dollar. These currencies had been battered as investors ran for relatively safer dollar-based investments, and have recovered somewhat in recent days as investors' appetite for risk mounted a minor recovery.

The Dow Jones Industrial Average gained nearly 300 points in intraday trading after the Fed announcement, though it closed down. In Asia Thursday morning, stocks rose, with the Tokyo's Nikkei Stock Average up 3.5% in early trading.

In announcing its cut, the Fed signaled the possibility of more to come, noting that "downside risks to growth remain." Echoing its other recent statements, the Fed said: "The pace of economic activity appears to have slowed markedly, owing importantly to a decline in consumer expenditures."

For the first time in months, the Fed didn't mention high inflation as a concern, noting only that it "expects inflation to moderate in coming quarters to levels consistent with price stability."

Lower federal-funds rates are usually a powerful tool to boost economic growth, though the impact tends to lag by several months. Lower rates reduce the cost of funds for banks. Theoretically, banks then pass the lower cost of borrowing to businesses and consumers, giving them an incentive to start new projects or spend money. Some banks responded to the Fed's move Wednesday by cutting prime lending rates to 4%, from 4.5%.

Still, the credit crisis has sent a wave of risk aversion through the global financial system, leaving many banks unwilling to lend. Across many markets, lending standards have tightened. While some short-term funding markets have improved in the past few days, credit is still tight in many parts of the financial system.

Yields on junk bonds, issued by companies whose debt is considered below investment grade, have reached extraordinary levels. Junk-bond yields are more than 16 percentage points above yields of Treasury bonds with comparable time horizons -- well above the 2.5 percentage point spread of June 2007 and the highest level since at least 1986, according to Merrill Lynch data. The market is facing a surge of defaults on this debt in the next year as banks remain wary of troubled borrowers.

"The junk-bond market is looking at a ticking time bomb," says Martin Fridson of Fridson Investment Advisors. "Even under the best of circumstances there's a lag with fiscal or monetary stimulus to the economy. When you have the banks as beaten up and resistant to lending, it is likely to be even less effective than usual."

Mortgage rates have also gone up, not down. That's in part because Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the mortgage-finance giants taken over by the government last month, are finding it costlier to borrow as investors are shifting away from their debt and toward other instruments, such as bank debt, that have new government guarantees. In just the past week, the average 30-year mortgage rate increased to 6.56% from 6.1%, according to HSH Associates, a mortgage-data publisher.

The widening economic fallout has given central bankers around the world a heightened sense of urgency.

China's central bank cut interest rates Wednesday for the third time in six weeks, amid a worsening growth outlook for its export-dependent economy. Norway's central bank cut its benchmark interest rate to 4.75%, the second cut in two weeks. Taiwan's central bank lowered its benchmark discount rate to 3% on Thursday, and Japanese authorities signaled they might cut rates to 0.25% Friday.

The European Central Bank and the Bank of England, both of which lowered their key rates by a half percentage-point earlier this month in a coordinated move with the Fed and three other central banks, are likely to delivery hefty rate cuts at meetings next week.

One big global concern is the health of U.S. consumers. Consumer spending, which will be reported for the third quarter Thursday, likely contracted for the first time in 17 years, which would deal a blow to export-dependent economies overseas.

Data released Wednesday suggested that slowing global growth was taking a toll on many economies. Japanese industrial output posted its biggest drop in nearly four years in the July-September period, falling 1.2% from the previous quarter.

Globally, the tide on interest rates has changed dramatically in just a few weeks. During the early stages of the summer, central bankers around the world were preoccupied with soaring food and oil prices, which can stoke broader inflation and spur central banks to increase interest rates.

J.P. Morgan Chase economists estimate that on average, central bank-targeted interest rates were 3.4% across the globe at the end of last week. By the end of the year, J.P. Morgan expects rates to fall to 2.8% and then to continue dropping next year to 2.3%.

Some ECB policy makers worry the $12.2 trillion euro-zone economy, second in size only to the U.S., will suffer a protracted period of meager growth and limp into recovery only late next year.

ECB President Jean-Claude Trichet said Monday that an interest-rate cut at the bank's Nov. 6 meeting was a "possibility," cementing market expectations of a half-percentage point reduction to 3.25% from 3.75%.

Across much of Europe rates are higher than in the U.S., giving European central banks more scope for easing than the Fed.

"It's been an amazing U-turn," says Erik Nielsen, economist with Goldman Sachs in London. "They've realized inflation is no longer a problem, and now they're out to save the world."

The Fed's move to 1% leaves it with a whole new set of challenges.

Some economists worry that it might find itself in the same position Japan did earlier this decade, with rates at or near zero but the economy still sinking and prices continuing to fall.

Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke, a Princeton economist who has studied Japan carefully, expects to forestall such a disaster scenario. In addition to cutting rates more quickly than Japan did in the early stages of its crisis, the Fed has sharply expanded the size of its own balance sheet, aggressively making loans as private-sector lending dries up. That could cushion the shock of the credit crisis.

"They can lend in unlimited fashion to provide credit to the economy," said David Greenlaw, a Morgan Stanley economist.

The Fed has other challenges ahead.

Pushing rates much lower could have some unintended consequences. Money-market mutual funds, for instance, could be strained by shrinking returns on short-term debt investments. Very low rates can also lead to trading disruptions in Treasury markets.

The Fed has also struggled to manage the actual level of the federal-funds rate. The funds rate is the interest rate banks charge each other when they lend out reserves overnight. Staff members of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York try to guide the rate to the Fed's target by managing the supply of reserves in the banking system.

The rate has been far below the Fed's target for several weeks, in part because the central bank has flooded the banking system with reserves to manage the crisis.

Fed officials thought that managing the rate would become easier after Congress earlier this month granted the central bank new authority to pay interest on banks' excess reserves. Economists believed that authority would help the Fed put a floor under the federal-funds rate by giving banks an alternative place to park their reserves when the overnight lending rate got very low.

But the move so far hasn't provided the floor expected, something Fed officials are studying. They have already altered the interest rate they pay on these reserves, bringing it closer to the federal-funds rate, and might need to tweak their rules again.

---

Andrew Batson and Takeshi Takeuchi contributed to this article.



License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | c13 : Regulation/Government Policy | e1122 : Mortgage Applications/Refinancing | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | ecat : Economic News | gvexe : Executive Branch | m131 : Money Markets | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | ncrx : Corrected Items | npag : Page-One Story | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter   REcana : Canada | china : China | eurz : Europe | norw : Norway | uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | asiaz : Asia | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | eecz : European Union Countries | namz : North America | nordz : Nordic Countries | scandz : Scandinavia | weurz : Western Europe   IPCPIC | FED | IGV | UKBK | UKGV | USG | NND | TPX | PGO | TPT   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument J000000020081030e4au00031  


 HDStocks Take Big Leap as Investors Await Fed --- Dow Soars 10% as Hopes of Rate Cut, Credit Thaw Offset Slide in Home Prices; Attention Turns to Fending Off Deflation   BYBy Jon Hilsenrath    WC1,711 words   PD29 October 2008   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGA1   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 2008, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LPShrugging off a flurry of grim economic news, stock investors pushed the Dow Jones Industrial Average up more than 10% as they anticipated new medicine from the Federal Reserve.

The Fed is widely expected to cut its benchmark interest rate Wednesday, possibly to as low as 1%, to combat a still-darkening economic outlook. Such a move would hark back to 2003, the last time the Fed pushed rates that low. Back then, Fed officials worried that a weak economy could lead to a pernicious bout of deflation, a danger that exists again.
   TDThe case for more rate cuts strengthened Tuesday, with new reports showing the economy deteriorating sharply. The Conference Board said its monthly measure of consumer confidence hit 38.0 in October, the lowest level since the New York-based business research group began keeping records in 1967. The group reported that 37.2% of Americans consider jobs hard to get, the highest level in 15 years.

The housing market also took a turn for the worse. Earlier in the summer, some housing indicators suggested home-price declines might be slowing. But the S&P/Case-Shiller home-price index for 20 large cities was down 16.6% in August from a year earlier, a record decline. Falling home prices can feed a downward spiral, creating pressure for more foreclosures and resulting in mortgage losses among banks.

Still, markets surged, displaying a volatility characteristic of financial crises. The Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 889.35 points, or 10.9%, to 9065.12, the sixth-strongest percentage gain and second-biggest point gain in its 112-year history.

The gains came as federal money begins to flow to banks and other businesses hit by the credit crunch, helping to ease the risk of large-scale business failures. The Fed began buying commercial paper -- short-term loans that companies use to pay for day-to-day expenses -- on Monday. The volume of three-month loans spiked, providing relief to companies that had been struggling to borrow. A further catalyst was a report that the government may be preparing to lend $5 billion to General Motors Corp.

"People are starting to take a long-term view," said Anthony Conroy, head trader at BNY ConvergEx, a New York brokerage.

There were also signs that across the world, investors were willing to move into riskier assets. Long-term Treasury bonds, a safe haven, fell sharply and the yen dropped significantly, ending five straight days of gains against the dollar. Markets rose from Tokyo to Frankfurt, with Hong Kong's Hang Seng Index gaining 14% to offset the previous day's 13% drop. Asian markets resumed their climb Wednesday morning, with the Nikkei up 6.4% in early trading.

Until Tuesday's big gain, the Dow had seen six one-day advances of 10% or more, half of them in the 1930s. Two occurred early in new bull markets, helping mark the end of long declines. But four -- including the 11.1% surge of Oct. 13, a few weeks ago -- were wiped away by later declines, proving to be temporary rallies in longer-term bear markets.

One source of market volatility was the activity of hedge funds. Some funds have been forced to unload short positions -- in which they bet on stocks falling -- which added to upward pressure on shares.

Markets embraced the expectations that the Fed could lower rates when it meets Wednesday. The Fed has already pushed its benchmark interest rate, the federal-funds rate, to 1.5% from 5.25% in September 2007. The cuts have helped to cushion the economy by keeping other rates on consumer and business loans from shooting much higher during the crisis.

In recent public comments, central bank officials have left the door open to further easing, though they've done little to signal how aggressively they intend to move. Many economists expect another half percentage point -- or 50 basis points -- of cutting, something also reflected in interest-rate futures markets.

"This is a very bleak outlook," says Marvin Goodfriend, a professor at Carnegie Mellon's Tepper School of Business and a former Fed economist. "The case is pretty strong to do the 50."

If Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke engineers a return to a 1% federal-funds rate, he will have gotten to that point less than 14 months after the current cycle of rate cuts began. That is an indication of how severe the current credit crisis has been, and how aggressively Mr. Bernanke has attacked it: The Fed under former Chairman Alan Greenspan was 30 months into an easing cycle in 2003 when the fed-funds rate hit 1%.

A return to that level is likely to spark two debates in the weeks ahead.

First, the last time the Fed pushed rates that low, it helped to plant seeds for the current credit bust, some economists argue, by contributing to a frenzy of borrowing by households and on Wall Street. That doesn't appear to be a concern for Fed officials now. Credit markets are so shaky and the economic outlook so unpromising, another speculative frenzy now looks remote.

A bigger debate is likely to revolve around how low the Fed's benchmark interest rate can go. The fed-funds rate is approaching zero, a lower bound that could complicate the central bank's tactics if the economy continues to worsen.

Some economists say they expect the Fed to push rates below 1% because the economic outlook is darker than it was in 2003 and the threat of deflation could become more severe.

"The expected rise in the unemployment rate, paired with the rising threat of deflation, presents a risk that the [Fed] will have to ease even further, perhaps all the way to a zero federal funds rate," former Federal Reserve governor Laurence Meyer, vice chairman of Macroeconomic Advisers, wrote Tuesday in a note to the forecasting firm's clients.

Deflation is a state of broadly falling consumer prices. For much of this year, Fed officials were concerned about the opposite: Soaring commodities prices and rising import costs were pushing U.S. consumer prices higher. In July, the consumer-price index was up 5.6% from a year earlier, the largest increase in more than 17 years.

Had the Fed been most concerned about inflation, it could have raised interest rates to slow economic growth and relieve upward pressure on prices. But Mr. Bernanke, believing the inflation threat would wane, held rates steady.

Since then, commodities prices have fallen sharply and slack has grown in the manufacturing sector and labor market. Those trends weigh heavily against more inflation and, if they continue, could eventually lead to deflation.

The U.S. economy is still far from deflationary territory, according to the yardsticks the Fed favors. But some Fed officials have recently highlighted a risk that inflation could become uncomfortably low.

"Some prominent forecasters at this stage are concerned that inflation in future years could decline to levels below what is consistent with price stability," Janet Yellen, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, said in a speech earlier this month.

Economists consider deflation a peculiar problem in part because it has the potential to feed on itself. Falling prices hurt corporate profit margins and lead to layoffs, which make consumers less willing to spend. This deals additional blows to corporate profits. Deflation can also be a challenge to combat. While the Fed can raise rates as much as it wants to fight inflation, interest rates can't naturally go below zero in the face of deflation.

Japan provides a cautionary example. After a 1980s real-estate boom and an early-1990s bust, deflation slowly set in and became difficult to combat. Japan's central bank lowered benchmark interest rates to zero for five years this decade. Despite such a low cost of funds, many banks still wouldn't lend. A revival didn't come until Japanese officials took more aggressive steps to recapitalize banks and pump more money into the financial system.

Adam Posen, deputy director of the Peterson Institute for International Economics, doesn't see entrenched deflation as an imminent threat for the U.S. Though home prices and commodities are falling sharply, that doesn't yet show signs of feeding through into a broader price decline.

While Japan's central bank was slow to act to revive the economy and clean up troubled banks, the Fed has been aggressive and unorthodox in its approaches, Mr. Posen notes.

"The [Fed's] policy regime is totally different," he says. The mere commitment to combat broadly falling prices, he notes, can keep businesses and consumers from falling into a deflationary mind-set that worsens the problem.

In addition to pushing interest rates down quickly, the Fed's own balance sheet has doubled to $1.8 trillion from a little more than $900 billion as it has aggressively expanded lending to the private sector and entered swap agreements with other central banks to provide U.S. currency to banks overseas.

While the Fed can only lower interest rates so much, it is not constrained in how much it can increase its own balance sheet by making loans or acquiring assets. It can create new bank reserves at will and use those reserves to make loans itself or take on distressed assets.

Some economists believe the balance sheet could more than double again in the months ahead. At $1.8 trillion, the Fed's assets amount to about 13% of gross domestic product. The Bank of Japan's balance sheet grew to more than 30% of gross domestic product during its long recession, according to Goldman Sachs economists.

"The Japanese experience illustrates that central balance sheets can grow to very large numbers when the monetary authority is called upon to take over short-term financing for a large part of the economy," said Jan Hatzius, a Goldman economist, in a recent note to clients.

---

E.S. Browning and Liz Rappaport contributed to this article.





License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | c13 : Regulation/Government Policy | c172 : Corporate Debt Instruments | e1101 : Economic Growth | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | ecat : Economic News | gvexe : Executive Branch | m131 : Money Markets | npag : Page-One Story | c17 : Funding/Capital | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCPIC | FED | USG | NND | TPX | PGO | TPT   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument J000000020081029e4at0003b  


 HDThe Financial Crisis: ECB's Trichet Signals a Rate Cut for Next Week   BYBy Joellen Perry in Frankfurt and Sudeep Reddy in Washington    WC585 words   PD28 October 2008   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGA10   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 2008, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LPEuropean Central Bank President Jean-Claude Trichet signaled in a notably direct statement that the central bank is likely to cut its key rate next week.

In a speech in Madrid, Mr. Trichet said, "I consider it possible that the Governing Council would decrease interest rates once again at its next meeting" on Nov. 6. He declined to discuss the size of a potential cut and stressed that "it is not a certainty." His comments solidified analysts' expectations that a half-percentage-point decrease to 3.25% is likely.
   TDMany of the world's major central banks are likely to cut key rates soon as growth stutters amid market turmoil. In Europe and many other places, the predominant worry through much of the year -- in light of soaring commodities prices -- had been rising inflation rates.

But with commodities prices falling sharply, a global recession sinking in and the credit crisis worsening, some ECB and Fed officials believe inflation in the next 18 months could drop below their soft targets. The rate cuts are aimed at supporting growth while also protecting against the threat of falling prices down the line.

The ECB, the U.S. Federal Reserve and four other central banks launched a coordinated rate cut on Oct. 8, lowering key rates by a half-percentage point.

On Wednesday, the Fed is expected to lower its interest-rate target from the current 1.5%. Fed officials recently left the door open to more easing. Futures markets are fully pricing in a half-percentage-point cut, with low odds for a 0.75-percentage-point cut.

The U.S. economy is expected to weaken further and Fed officials don't expect a meaningful recovery to begin until the second half of next year. That could keep pressure on the Fed to lower rates at the December policy meeting. Officials have been cautious about more easing, trying to gauge how much cuts would affect the overall economy while credit markets remain strained.

With policy makers and economists predicting a recession in the U.K., Bank of England officials are expected to lower their key rate by at least a half-percentage point from the current 4.5% at their meeting on Nov. 5-6.

Amid signs of a severe slowdown in the 15 countries that use the euro, some economists expect the ECB to follow a November cut with a second half-percentage-point cut in December.

Mr. Trichet's suggestion that an ECB cut could come at the bank's next meeting suggests policy makers have ruled out cutting in tandem with the Fed, at least for now. Within the ECB's 21-member Governing Council, there is some surprise that the coordinated rate cut didn't impress markets more. Some policy makers feel the fact that confidence was so low that the cut produced no tangible boost raised the stakes for their next move.

Highlighting the increasing role central banks are playing in keeping money markets afloat, the ECB initiated a currency-swap line with Denmark's central bank. The 12 billion euro line ($15 billion) is similar to the currency-swap lines the Fed launched to provide other central banks with dollars and will let the Danish central bank funnel euro to domestic commercial banks struggling amid the squeeze in interbank lending markets.



License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | c13 : Regulation/Government Policy | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | ecat : Economic News | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvexe : Executive Branch | ecbnk : European Central Bank | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | eec : European Union | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gvbod : Government Bodies | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations   REden : Denmark | eurz : Europe | uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | eecz : European Union Countries | namz : North America | nordz : Nordic Countries | scandz : Scandinavia | weurz : Western Europe   IPCDRT | PIC | FED | IGV | UKBK | UKGV | USG | NND | LMJ | TPT   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument J000000020081028e4as00030  


 HDUS Analysts:Fed Easing Little Help For Econ;But No Cut Hurts   WC978 words   PD28 October 2008   ET19:19   SNMarket News International   SCMARNEW   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008. Market News International, Inc.   
   TD

By Yali N'Diaye

     WASHINGTON (MNI) - While most analysts say they expect the Federal 
Reserve to cut interest rates either 25 or 50 basis points at the 
conclusion of its two-day meeting Wednesday afternoon, they do not 
appear to believe such a move will do much for the near-term economy. 

     One reason for any ambivalence is that the traditional relationship 
between the effective fed funds target and other interest rates has been 
altered so much in the current financial crisis. 

     Furthermore, all the liquidity measures taken so far have had 
uneven influence -- if any -- on investors' confidence and the full 
impact may be just beginning to be felt. The most recent rate cut, the 
50 basis point ease coordinated internationally, appeared to lack 
the usual impact on confidence measures, some analysts said. 

     Some analysts are also arguing that at this point the central bank 
needs to preserve its rate-cut ammunition. 

     Not easing, however, would not be without its own consequences, 
perhaps impacting confidence at a time when the fear factor is driving 
financial markets' behavior and consumer confidence is at an all-time 
low, most analysts agreed. 

     Earlier in the day, the Conference Board reported that for October, 
the consumer confidence index fell to 38.0 from 61.4 in September, 
reaching its lowest level on record. 

     "The impact of the financial crisis over the last several weeks has 
clearly taken a toll on consumers' confidence," the report said. 

     Deepening economic weakness also translated into an accelerated 
decline in the day's Richmond Federal Reserve manufacturing index to -26 
in October from -18 in September. 

     Looking ahead, U.S. Treasury Deputy Secretary Robert Kimmitt warned 
Tuesday, in a speech in Dubai, that the economy is facing difficult 
quarters ahead. 

     As a result, a 25-basis point rate cut would be "appropriate, given 
economic weakness," said Bank of America Senior Economist Peter 
Kretzmer. 

     The prospects of further economic weakening could also justify a 
50-basis point move, Kretzmer added. 

     "But given issues of money market strains, it may not be desirable 
to move the funds rate far below 1%," he said. "Given this lower bound, 
the FOMC might want to divide the remaining decline into two steps." 

     It seems, however, that a rate cut won't bring much boost to 
economic activity, other analysts said. 

     As UBS economist James O'Sullivan put it, the sentiment is rather 
that a rate cut "would help relative to not cutting," and the size of 
the move is likely to be 25 basis points. 

     It's a close call with 50 basis points, however, O'Sullivan said. 

     The psychological impact is indeed needed, said Insight Economics 
analyst Steven Wood who also expects a 25-basis point rate cut. 

     "A rate cut would help market psychology -- or rather the absence 
of a rate cut would hurt market psychology," he argued. 

     He added, however, that such a move by the Federal Reserve "in and 
of itself will not make any noticeable difference to the economy." 

     The reason is that "the problems the economy are facing are not 
caused by a funds rate that is too high but rather by the lack of 
transparency and lending between financial institutions and between 
financial institutions and the broader economy," Wood said. 

     As a result, "these will only be overcome with time as financial 
institutions work through their bad loans." 

     In the view of Argus Research Director of Economic Research Richard 
Yamarone, a rate cut will do less than a make small difference, it will 
make no difference. 

     The need for coordination with other central banks, as suggested by 
the G7 communique, is making an easing unavoidable, he argued. 

     "There is nothing that a rate cut will do to help the economy," 
Yamarone said. "Nevertheless, there is an agreement with the other 
central banks to continue cutting." 

     On Monday, European Central Bank President Jean-Claude Trichet 
strongly hinted at a rate cut at the next meeting on November 6. 

     And in an afternoon report, Nikkei news agency reported the Bank of 
Japan has suddenly done a turnabout and is considering a 25 bps rate 
cut.

     As a result, Yamarone expects a "coordinated" although not 
simultaneous 25-basis point rate cut. "This way the Fed can keep some of 
its powder dry," he said. 

     The central bank will indeed want to "keep some powder dry," said 
Clearview economist Ken Mayland. 

     In addition, an interest rate cut would provide "No help," he said, 
which translates into an expectation of no change in the policy rates on 
Wednesday. 

     "Interest rates are already low enough," Mayland argued, citing the 
already very "expansionary" monetary policy. Following a coordinated 
50-basis point interest rate cut on November 6, the Fed funds rates fell 
to 1.50%, compared with a minimum refinancing rate of 3.75% in the euro 
zone. 
 
     "Liquidity is more important than the level of rates, now," Mayland 
said. "Let's see the extent to which the current measure gain traction" 
first, before considering additional policy steps. 

     There is no point in "saving ammunition" since the recession has 
already arrived, opposed Barclays Capital Economist Ethan Harris, who 
expects a 50-basis point easing, "with a directive that acknowledges 
that growth risks outweigh recession risks." 

     "The Fed and Treasury should be pushing all the levers now," he 
continued. 

     And while a cut would not help much, "not cutting would hurt," 
Harris said.  

     His views echoed International Monetary Fund First Deputy Managing 
Director John Lipsky's comments earlier in the day in New York. 

     The IMF official said there is "ample justification for pessimism" 
on the global economy, and as a result urged policy makers to act in a 
strong manner in order to avoid "undershooting." 

     ** Market News International Washington Bureau: 202-371-2121 **

[TOPICS: M$U$$$,MMUFE$,MGU$$$,MFU$$$]
   COncnbco : Bank of America Corporation   INi814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBMarket News International, Inc.   ANDocument MARNEW0020081029e4as00008  



 SEBusiness   HDStocks Take Big Leap as Investors Await Fed; Dow Soars 10% as Hopes of Rate Cut, Credit Thaw Offset Slide in Home Prices; Attention Turns to Fending Off Deflation   BYBy Jon Hilsenrath    WC1,721 words   PD29 October 2008   SNThe Wall Street Journal (Online and Print)   SCWSJO   PGEconomy; A1   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2008 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
   LPShrugging off a flurry of grim economic news, stock investors pushed the Dow Jones Industrial Average up more than 10% as they anticipated new medicine from the Federal Reserve.

The Fed is widely expected to cut its benchmark interest rate Wednesday, possibly to as low as 1%, to combat a still-darkening economic outlook. Such a move would hark back to 2003, the last time the Fed pushed rates that low. Back then, Fed officials worried that a weak economy could lead to a pernicious bout of deflation, a danger that exists again.
   TDThe case for more rate cuts strengthened Tuesday, with new reports showing the economy deteriorating sharply. The Conference Board said its monthly measure of consumer confidence hit 38.0 in October, the lowest level since the New York-based business research group began keeping records in 1967. The group reported that 37.2% of Americans consider jobs hard to get, the highest level in 15 years.

The housing market also took a turn for the worse. Earlier in the summer, some housing indicators suggested home-price declines might be slowing. But the S&P/Case-Shiller home-price index for 20 large cities was down 16.6% in August from a year earlier, a record decline. Falling home prices can feed a downward spiral, creating pressure for more foreclosures and resulting in mortgage losses among banks.

Still, markets surged, displaying a volatility characteristic of financial crises. The Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 889.35 points, or 10.9%, to 9065.12, the sixth-strongest percentage gain and second-biggest point gain in its 112-year history.

The gains came as federal money begins to flow to banks and other businesses hit by the credit crunch, helping to ease the risk of large-scale business failures. The Fed began buying commercial paper -- short-term loans that companies use to pay for day-to-day expenses -- on Monday. The volume of three-month loans spiked, providing relief to companies that had been struggling to borrow. A further catalyst was a report that the government may be preparing to lend $5 billion to General Motors Corp.

"People are starting to take a long-term view," said Anthony Conroy, head trader at BNY ConvergEx, a New York brokerage.

There were also signs that across the world, investors were willing to move into riskier assets. Long-term Treasury bonds, a safe haven, fell sharply and the yen dropped significantly, ending five straight days of gains against the dollar. Markets rose from Tokyo to Frankfurt, with Hong Kong's Hang Seng Index gaining 14% to offset the previous day's 13% drop. Asian markets resumed their climb Wednesday morning, with the Nikkei up 6.4% in early trading.

Until Tuesday's big gain, the Dow had seen six one-day advances of 10% or more, half of them in the 1930s. Two occurred early in new bull markets, helping mark the end of long declines. But four -- including the 11.1% surge of Oct. 13, a few weeks ago -- were wiped away by later declines, proving to be temporary rallies in longer-term bear markets.

One source of market volatility was the activity of hedge funds. Some funds have been forced to unload short positions -- in which they bet on stocks falling -- which added to upward pressure on shares.

Markets embraced the expectations that the Fed could lower rates when it meets Wednesday. The Fed has already pushed its benchmark interest rate, the federal-funds rate, to 1.5% from 5.25% in September 2007. The cuts have helped to cushion the economy by keeping other rates on consumer and business loans from shooting much higher during the crisis.

In recent public comments, central bank officials have left the door open to further easing, though they've done little to signal how aggressively they intend to move. Many economists expect another half percentage point -- or 50 basis points -- of cutting, something also reflected in interest-rate futures markets.

"This is a very bleak outlook," says Marvin Goodfriend, a professor at Carnegie Mellon's Tepper School of Business and a former Fed economist. "The case is pretty strong to do the 50."

Two Debates

If Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke engineers a return to a 1% federal-funds rate, he will have gotten to that point less than 14 months after the current cycle of rate cuts began. That is an indication of how severe the current credit crisis has been, and how aggressively Mr. Bernanke has attacked it: The Fed under former Chairman Alan Greenspan was 30 months into an easing cycle in 2003 when the fed-funds rate hit 1%.

A return to that level is likely to spark two debates in the weeks ahead.

First, the last time the Fed pushed rates that low, it helped to plant seeds for the current credit bust, some economists argue, by contributing to a frenzy of borrowing by households and on Wall Street. That doesn't appear to be a concern for Fed officials now. Credit markets are so shaky and the economic outlook so unpromising, another speculative frenzy now looks remote.

A bigger debate is likely to revolve around how low the Fed's benchmark interest rate can go. The fed-funds rate is approaching zero, a lower bound that could complicate the central bank's tactics if the economy continues to worsen.

Some economists say they expect the Fed to push rates below 1% because the economic outlook is darker than it was in 2003 and the threat of deflation could become more severe.

"The expected rise in the unemployment rate, paired with the rising threat of deflation, presents a risk that the [Fed] will have to ease even further, perhaps all the way to a zero federal funds rate," former Federal Reserve governor Laurence Meyer, vice chairman of Macroeconomic Advisers, wrote Tuesday in a note to the forecasting firm's clients.

Deflation is a state of broadly falling consumer prices. For much of this year, Fed officials were concerned about the opposite: Soaring commodities prices and rising import costs were pushing U.S. consumer prices higher. In July, the consumer-price index was up 5.6% from a year earlier, the largest increase in more than 17 years.

Had the Fed been most concerned about inflation, it could have raised interest rates to slow economic growth and relieve upward pressure on prices. But Mr. Bernanke, believing the inflation threat would wane, held rates steady.

Since then, commodities prices have fallen sharply and slack has grown in the manufacturing sector and labor market. Those trends weigh heavily against more inflation and, if they continue, could eventually lead to deflation.

Measuring Deflation

The U.S. economy is still far from deflationary territory, according to the yardsticks the Fed favors. But some Fed officials have recently highlighted a risk that inflation could become uncomfortably low.

"Some prominent forecasters at this stage are concerned that inflation in future years could decline to levels below what is consistent with price stability," Janet Yellen, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, said in a speech earlier this month.

Economists consider deflation a peculiar problem in part because it has the potential to feed on itself. Falling prices hurt corporate profit margins and lead to layoffs, which make consumers less willing to spend. This deals additional blows to corporate profits. Deflation can also be a challenge to combat. While the Fed can raise rates as much as it wants to fight inflation, interest rates can't naturally go below zero in the face of deflation.

Japan provides a cautionary example. After a 1980s real-estate boom and an early-1990s bust, deflation slowly set in and became difficult to combat. Japan's central bank lowered benchmark interest rates to zero for five years this decade. Despite such a low cost of funds, many banks still wouldn't lend. A revival didn't come until Japanese officials took more aggressive steps to recapitalize banks and pump more money into the financial system.

Adam Posen, deputy director of the Peterson Institute for International Economics, doesn't see entrenched deflation as an imminent threat for the U.S. Though home prices and commodities are falling sharply, that doesn't yet show signs of feeding through into a broader price decline.

While Japan's central bank was slow to act to revive the economy and clean up troubled banks, the Fed has been aggressive and unorthodox in its approaches, Mr. Posen notes.

"The [Fed's] policy regime is totally different," he says. The mere commitment to combat broadly falling prices, he notes, can keep businesses and consumers from falling into a deflationary mind-set that worsens the problem.

In addition to pushing interest rates down quickly, the Fed's own balance sheet has doubled to $1.8 trillion from a little more than $900 billion as it has aggressively expanded lending to the private sector and entered swap agreements with other central banks to provide U.S. currency to banks overseas.

Growing Balance Sheet

While the Fed can only lower interest rates so much, it is not constrained in how much it can increase its own balance sheet by making loans or acquiring assets. It can create new bank reserves at will and use those reserves to make loans itself or take on distressed assets.

Some economists believe the balance sheet could more than double again in the months ahead. At $1.8 trillion, the Fed's assets amount to about 13% of gross domestic product. The Bank of Japan's balance sheet grew to more than 30% of gross domestic product during its long recession, according to Goldman Sachs economists.

"The Japanese experience illustrates that central balance sheets can grow to very large numbers when the monetary authority is called upon to take over short-term financing for a large part of the economy," said Jan Hatzius, a Goldman economist, in a recent note to clients.

E.S. Browning and Liz Rappaport contributed to this article.

Write to Jon Hilsenrath at jon.hilsenrath@wsj.com 
   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | c1522 : Share Price Movement/Disruptions | mntdbt : National Government Debt/Bond Markets | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | effund : Federal Funds Rate | e1101 : Economic Growth | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | ecat : Economic News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | npag : Page-One Story | c15 : Performance | c152 : Earnings Projections | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter   REusa : United States | jap : Japan | asiaz : Asia | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America   IPDEconomy   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument WSJO000020091007e4at00g8h  



 SEBusiness   HDFed Steps Up Assault on Slump; U.S. Is Joined in Rate Cuts by China, Norway; Doubts Linger on Easing's Impact   BYBy Jon Hilsenrath, Joellen Perry and Liz Rappaport    WC1,684 words   PD30 October 2008   SNThe Wall Street Journal (Online and Print)   SCWSJO   PGEconomy; A1   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2008 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
   LP(See Corrections &Amplifications item below  )

Central banks around the world have unleashed a new assault on the global economic downturn, with Wednesday's interest-rate cut by the U.S. Federal Reserve accompanied by cuts in China and Norway and several other central banks expected to follow suit.
   TDThe Federal Reserve, already more than a year into a rate-cutting campaign that has been more aggressive than any other central bank's, pushed its benchmark federal-funds rate down half a percentage point, to 1%.

The central bank has now moved rates back to a low last reached in 2003 and 2004, long after the 2001 recession ended. The return to that level raises a host of new questions that U.S. policy makers will now need to consider, including how much lower rates can go and how well the Fed's cuts are working.

For now, credit remains tight for many homeowners, and borrowing costs have soared for many businesses. However, the Fed's interest-rate moves to date have likely provided an important cushion to the economy. Without them, Fed officials believe, borrowing costs for households and businesses would be even higher.

Markets signaled that investors were continuing to shed the extreme caution of recent weeks. Treasury bonds were essentially flat on the day as investors returned to slightly riskier assets, sending some corporate-bond prices higher. Late in New York, the British pound and the Canadian dollar strengthened against the dollar. These currencies had been battered as investors ran for relatively safer dollar-based investments, and have recovered somewhat in recent days as investors' appetite for risk mounted a minor recovery.

The Dow Jones Industrial Average gained nearly 300 points in intraday trading after the Fed announcement, though it closed down. In Asia Thursday morning, stocks rose, with the Tokyo's Nikkei Stock Average up 3.5% in early trading.

In announcing its cut, the Fed signaled the possibility of more to come, noting that "downside risks to growth remain." Echoing its other recent statements, the Fed said: "The pace of economic activity appears to have slowed markedly, owing importantly to a decline in consumer expenditures."

For the first time in months, the Fed didn't mention high inflation as a concern, noting only that it "expects inflation to moderate in coming quarters to levels consistent with price stability."

Lower federal-funds rates are usually a powerful tool to boost economic growth, though the impact tends to lag by several months. Lower rates reduce the cost of funds for banks. Theoretically, banks then pass the lower cost of borrowing to businesses and consumers, giving them an incentive to start new projects or spend money. Some banks responded to the Fed's move Wednesday by cutting prime lending rates to 4%, from 4.5%.

Wave of Risk Aversion

Still, the credit crisis has sent a wave of risk aversion through the global financial system, leaving many banks unwilling to lend. Across many markets, lending standards have tightened. While some short-term funding markets have improved in the past few days, credit is still tight in many parts of the financial system.

Yields on junk bonds, issued by companies whose debt is considered below investment grade, have reached extraordinary levels. Junk-bond yields are more than 16 percentage points above yields of Treasury bonds with comparable time horizons -- well above the 2.5 percentage point spread of June 2007 and the highest level since at least 1986, according to Merrill Lynch data. The market is facing a surge of defaults on this debt in the next year as banks remain wary of troubled borrowers.

"The junk-bond market is looking at a ticking time bomb," says Martin Fridson of Fridson Investment Advisors. "Even under the best of circumstances there's a lag with fiscal or monetary stimulus to the economy. When you have the banks as beaten up and resistant to lending, it is likely to be even less effective than usual."

Mortgage rates have also gone up, not down. That's in part because Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the mortgage-finance giants taken over by the government last month, are finding it costlier to borrow as investors are shifting away from their debt and toward other instruments, such as bank debt, that have new government guarantees. In just the past week, the average 30-year mortgage rate increased to 6.56% from 6.1%, according to HSH Associates, a mortgage-data publisher.

The widening economic fallout has given central bankers around the world a heightened sense of urgency.

China's central bank cut interest rates Wednesday for the third time in six weeks, amid a worsening growth outlook for its export-dependent economy. Norway's central bank cut its benchmark interest rate to 4.75%, the second cut in two weeks. Taiwan's central bank lowered its benchmark discount rate to 3% on Thursday, and Japanese authorities signaled they might cut rates to 0.25% Friday.

The European Central Bank and the Bank of England, both of which lowered their key rates by a half percentage-point earlier this month in a coordinated move with the Fed and three other central banks, are likely to delivery hefty rate cuts at meetings next week.

One big global concern is the health of U.S. consumers. Consumer spending, which will be reported for the third quarter Thursday, likely contracted for the first time in 17 years, which would deal a blow to export-dependent economies overseas.

Data released Wednesday suggested that slowing global growth was taking a toll on many economies. Japanese industrial output posted its biggest drop in nearly four years in the July-September period, falling 1.2% from the previous quarter.

Globally, the tide on interest rates has changed dramatically in just a few weeks. During the early stages of the summer, central bankers around the world were preoccupied with soaring food and oil prices, which can stoke broader inflation and spur central banks to increase interest rates.

J.P. Morgan Chase economists estimate that on average, central bank-targeted interest rates were 3.4% across the globe at the end of last week. By the end of the year, J.P. Morgan expects rates to fall to 2.8% and then to continue dropping next year to 2.3%.

Some ECB policy makers worry the $12.2 trillion euro-zone economy, second in size only to the U.S., will suffer a protracted period of meager growth and limp into recovery only late next year.

ECB President Jean-Claude Trichet said Monday that an interest-rate cut at the bank's Nov. 6 meeting was a "possibility," cementing market expectations of a half-percentage point reduction to 3.25% from 3.75%.

Across much of Europe rates are higher than in the U.S., giving European central banks more scope for easing than the Fed.

"It's been an amazing U-turn," says Erik Nielsen, economist with Goldman Sachs in London. "They've realized inflation is no longer a problem, and now they're out to save the world."

The Fed's move to 1% leaves it with a whole new set of challenges.

Some economists worry that it might find itself in the same position Japan did earlier this decade, with rates at or near zero but the economy still sinking and prices continuing to fall.

Lessons From Japan

Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke, a Princeton economist who has studied Japan carefully, expects to forestall such a disaster scenario. In addition to cutting rates more quickly than Japan did in the early stages of its crisis, the Fed has sharply expanded the size of its own balance sheet, aggressively making loans as private-sector lending dries up. That could cushion the shock of the credit crisis.

"They can lend in unlimited fashion to provide credit to the economy," said David Greenlaw, a Morgan Stanley economist.

The Fed has other challenges ahead.

Pushing rates much lower could have some unintended consequences. Money-market mutual funds, for instance, could be strained by shrinking returns on short-term debt investments. Very low rates can also lead to trading disruptions in Treasury markets.

The Fed has also struggled to manage the actual level of the federal-funds rate. The funds rate is the interest rate banks charge each other when they lend out reserves overnight. Staff members of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York try to guide the rate to the Fed's target by managing the supply of reserves in the banking system.

The rate has been far below the Fed's target for several weeks, in part because the central bank has flooded the banking system with reserves to manage the crisis.

Fed officials thought that managing the rate would become easier after Congress earlier this month granted the central bank new authority to pay interest on banks' excess reserves. Economists believed that authority would help the Fed put a floor under the federal-funds rate by giving banks an alternative place to park their reserves when the overnight lending rate got very low.

But the move so far hasn't provided the floor expected, something Fed officials are studying. They have already altered the interest rate they pay on these reserves, bringing it closer to the federal-funds rate, and might need to tweak their rules again.

Andrew Batson and Takeshi Takeuchi contributed to this article.

Write to Jon Hilsenrath at jon.hilsenrath@wsj.com , Joellen Perry at joellen.perry@wsj.com  and Liz Rappaport at liz.rappaport@wsj.com  and Liz Rappaport at

Corrections &Amplifications

The green line in a chart that accompanied this article on global rate cuts showed the yields on the Lehman Brothers U.S. Aggregate Index, which includes several types of investment-grade debt, including corporate debt. The line was incorrectly labeled as investment-grade corporate-bond yields.
   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | effund : Federal Funds Rate | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | ecat : Economic News | gassa : Assault | npag : Page-One Story | gcat : Political/General News | gcrim : Crime/Courts | ncat : Content Types   REusa : United States | jap : Japan | china : China | norw : Norway | asiaz : Asia | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | nordz : Nordic Countries | scandz : Scandinavia | weurz : Western Europe   IPDEconomy   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument WSJO000020091007e4au00g5a  



 SEGLOBAL FINANCIAL CRISIS   HDUS rate cut likely, despite scepticism   BYBy Krishna Guha in Washington    WC604 words   PD28 October 2008   SNFinancial Times   SCFTFT   EDLondon Ed2   PG06   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPFederal Reserve

Policymakers doubt the move will do much to help the financial markets or economy, writes Krishna Guha
   TDThe Federal Reserve will probably end up cutting interest rates by as much as 50 basis points by the end of its policy meeting tomorrow, but it will do so without any great conviction.

Senior policymakers do not think that reducing the federal funds rate from its already low level of 1.5 per cent will have a big effect on financial markets or the US economy.

They do, however, think further rate cuts in other big industrialised economies are urgently needed. This could make them amenable to a second transatlantic co-ordinated rate cut. But there is little evidence that the European Central Bank favours such a move.

The forecasts prepared for the Fed meeting are likely to show a drastic downward revision of the outlook for US growth and inflation. Fed officials now see unemployment peaking at roughly 7.5 per cent next year.

But they think that in the US monetary policy is now a secondary issue, and the main tools to fight the economic downturn are government capital injections and asset purchases, plus giant central bank liquidity operations including borderline unsecured loans.

Fed officials no longer worry about rate cuts boosting commodity prices, and are less concerned about the dollar. But they worry about the potentially harmful effect on confidence if the Fed fires off all its ammunition now and has little apparent impact.

Some officials are uncomfortable about cutting rates below 1 per cent. A 50-basis-point cut now would put the Fed at 1 per cent heading into its next meeting in December, when unemployment will almost certainly be much higher than it is today - putting pressure on the Fed to cut further. That means that a smaller cut of 25 basis points tomorrow remains quite possible.

Nonetheless, theory holds that when a central bank faces even a small risk of deflation, and does not have a lot of room left to cut rates, it should cut quickly and aggressively, not dribble out the remaining rate cuts.

The present situation is not exactly a textbook example, because of the disruptions in the credit markets and the use of other policy tools. For instance, senior Fed officials now assume a second fiscal stimulus is likely. Moreover, Fed simulations suggest that the risk of deflation in core prices (excluding food and energy) remains small, even though some dovish officials are becoming concerned.

Still, Fed officials, such as Don Kohn, vice-chairman, have consistently argued in favour of leaning against the tightening of financial conditions imposed by the seizure in credit markets, by lowering the underlying interest rate. With inflation expectations plummeting, not cutting rates would amount to a tightening in real terms. This logic - combined with the theoretical prescription not to dribble out the remaining cuts - will probably end up prevailing.  The pace of new home sales in the US rose by 2.7 per cent last month as low prices brought a flurry of bargain hunting in the stricken housing market, writes James Politi .

New home sales rose to an annualised rate of 464,000 units after dropping by 12.3 per cent in August, the commerce department said yesterday. The inventory of unsold homes dropped, from 11.4 months' supply in August to 10.4 months' last month. The median sale price for a new home fell to $218,400, (140,000, 174,000) - its lowest in four years.
   RFftnewspaper_20081028.xml|20081028L206.002   INi81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | i814 : Banking   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCEN02 | EN | EN0208 | MN   IPDEconomic Indicators | Economic News | Interest Rates | Market News   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTFT000020081028e4as0004g  

 Never Mind the Fed -- Watch Libor
WSJ Blogs, 15:32, 30 October 2008, 669 words, (English)
Rob Curran and Geoffrey Rogow report:
Forget about the Fed. What needs to be watched in coming weeks is Libor, if you're looking for cues on the direction for equities in coming days and weeks.
Document WCWSJB0020091010e4au00czg

 Fed Statement on Interest Rates
WSJ Blogs, 19:23, 29 October 2008, 315 words, (English)
The following is the Federal Reserve's statement following the October rate-setting meeting.
The Federal Open Market Committee decided today to lower its target for the federal funds rate 50 basis points to 1 percent.
Document WCWSJB0020091010e4at00d0e

 Were Some Fed Officials Reluctant to Cut?
WSJ Blogs, 23:39, 29 October 2008, 683 words, (English)
The Federal Reserve, while cutting its benchmark interest-rate target half a percentage point today, also lowered its discount rate by half a point based on requests from four regional Fed banks. Where were the other eight? Despite ...
Document WCWSJB0020091010e4at00d0j

 How Much Will the Fed Cut?
WSJ Blogs, 20:59, 28 October 2008, 1007 words, (English)
The Federal Reserve is likely to cut its interest-rate target at a two-day meeting Tuesday and Wednesday. But central bank officials, while leaving the door wide open to further reductions from the current 1.5% federal funds rate, have done ...
Document WCWSJB0020091010e4as00d0a



 SECOMMENT   HDAdd 'financial stability' to the Fed's mandate   BYStephen Roach    WC960 words   PD28 October 2008   SNFinancial Times   SCFTFT   EDAsia Ed1   PG11   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPAregulatory backlash is under way as the US body politic comes to grips with the finan- cial crisis. Wall Street - or what is left of it - is first in the line of fire. But the era of excess was as much about policy blunders and regulatory negligence as about mistakes by financial institutions. As Washington creates a new system, it must also redefine the role of the Federal Reserve.

Specifically, the US Congress needs to alter the Fed's policy mandate to include an explicit reference to financial stability. The addition of those two words would force the Fed not only to aim at tempering the damage from asset bubbles but also to use its regulatory authority to promote sounder risk management practices. Such reforms are critical for a post-bubble, crisis-torn US economy.
   TDThis is not the first time the US Congress has needed to refine the Fed's mandate. After the great inflation of the 1970s, the so-called Humphrey-Hawkins Act of 1978 was enacted. That required the Fed to add price stability to its original post-second world war policy target of full employment. In the late 1970s, Congress felt the Fed needed the full force of the law to tackle a corrosive inflation problem. This legislative change empowered Paul Volcker, a later Fed chairman, in his courageous assault on double-digit inflation.

By focusing on financial stability, the Fed will need to adjust its tactics in two ways. Firstly, monetary policy will need to shift from the Greenspan-Bernanke reactive, post-bubble clean-up approach towards pre-emptive bubble avoidance. Second, the bank will need to be tougher in its neglected regulatory oversight capacity.

By adding "financial stability" to the Fed's policy mandate, I am mindful of the pitfalls of multiple policy targets. However, single-dimensional policy targeting does not cut it in a complex world. As such, the Fed will need to be creative in achieving its mandated goals - using monetary policy, regulatory oversight and enforcement and moral persuasion. Just as the Fed has been reasonably successful in its twin quests for price stability and full employment, I am confident it can rise to the occasion with the addition of financial stability to its mandate.

I am not suggesting the Fed develops numerical targets for asset markets. It should have discretion as to how it interprets the new mandate. Yes, it is tricky to judge when an asset class is in danger of forming a bubble. Buthindsight offers little doubt of the bubbles that developed over the past decade - equities, residential property, credit and other risky assets. The Fed wrongly dismissed these developments,harbouring the illusion it could clean up any mess later. Today's problems are a repudiation of that approach.

There is no room in a new financial stability mandate for bubble denialists such as Alan Greenspan, the former Fed chairman. He argued that equities were surging because of a new economy; that housing forms local not national bubbles and that the credit explosion was a by-product of the American genius of financial innovation. In retrospect, while there was a kernel of truth to all of those observations, they should not have been decisive in shaping Fed policy. Under a financial stability mandate, the Fed will need to replace its ideological convictions with common sense. When investors buy assets in anticipation of future price increases the Fed will need to err on the side of caution and presume that a bubble is forming that could threaten financial stability.

The new mandate would also encourage the Fed to deal with excesses by striking the right balance between deploying its policy interest rate and other tools. In times of asset-market froth, I favour the "leaning against the wind" approach with regard to interest rates - pushing the Federal funds rate higher than a narrow inflation target might suggest. But there are other Fed tools that can be directed at financial excesses - margin requirements for equity lending as well as controls on the issuance of exotic mortgage instruments (zero-interest rate products come to mind). In addition, the Fed should not be bashful in using the bully pulpit of moral persuasion to warn against the impending dangers of asset bubbles.

Of equal importance is the need for the Fed to develop a clearer understanding of the linkage between financial stability and the open-ended explosion of derivatives and structured products. Over the past decade, an ideologically-driven Fed failed to make the distinction between financial engineering and innovation. It understood neither the products nor their scale, even as the notional value of global derivatives hit $516,000bn in mid-2007, the eve of the subprime crisis - up 2.3 times over the preceding three years to a level that was 10 times the size of world gross domestic product. The view in US central banking circles was that an innovations-based explosion of new financial instruments was a huge plus for market efficiency.

Driven by its ideological convictions, the Fed flew blind on the derivatives front. On the one hand, this was hardly surprising as these are largely private, over-the-counter transactions. What is surprising is that the authorities failed to develop metrics that would have helped them understand the breadth, depth and complexity of the derivatives explosion. This trust in ideology over objective metrics was a fatal mistake. Like all crises, this one is a wake-up call.The Fed made policy blunders of historic proportions that must be avoided in the future. Adding financial stability to its mandate is vital to preventing such errors again.

The writer is chairman of Morgan Stanley, Asia
   RFftnewspaper_20081028.xml|20081028A111.447   INi81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | i814 : Banking   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | gpol : Domestic Politics | nedc : Commentary/Opinion | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCCN02 | CN | GN | CN18   IPDCompany Management | Company News | Government News | Regulation of Business   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTFT000020081028e4as0000u  



 HDText: FOMC Announcement from Oct. 28-29 Meeting   WC591 words   PD29 October 2008   ET19:18   SNMarket News International   SCMARNEW   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008. Market News International, Inc.   
   TD
--FOMC's Oct. 8 Statement Follows for Comparison
 
     WASHINGTON (MNI) - The following is the text of the statement 
released Wednesday afternoon by the Federal Open Market Committee after 
its two-day monetary policy meeting: 

     The Federal Open Market Committee decided today to lower its target 
for the federal funds rate 50 basis points to 1 percent. 

     The pace of economic activity appears to have slowed markedly, 
owing importantly to a decline in consumer expenditures. Business 
equipment spending and industrial production have weakened in recent 
months, and slowing economic activity in many foreign economies is 
damping the prospects for U.S. exports. Moreover, the intensification of 
financial market turmoil is likely to exert additional restraint on 
spending, partly by further reducing the ability of households and 
businesses to obtain credit.

     In light of the declines in the prices of energy and other 
commodities and the weaker prospects for economic activity, the 
Committee expects inflation to moderate in coming quarters to levels 
consistent with price stability.

     Recent policy actions, including today's rate reduction, 
coordinated interest rate cuts by central banks, extraordinary liquidity 
measures, and official steps to strengthen financial systems, should 
help over time to improve credit conditions and promote a return to 
moderate economic growth. Nevertheless, downside risks to growth remain. 
The Committee will monitor economic and financial developments carefully 
and will act as needed to promote sustainable economic growth and price 
stability.

     Voting for the FOMC monetary policy action were: Ben S. Bernanke, 
Chairman; Timothy F. Geithner, Vice Chairman; Elizabeth A. Duke; Richard 
W. Fisher; Donald L. Kohn; Randall S. Kroszner; Sandra Pianalto; Charles 
I. Plosser; Gary H. Stern; and Kevin M. Warsh.

     In a related action, the Board of Governors unanimously approved a 
50-basis point decrease in the discount rate to 1-1/4 percent. In taking 
this action, the Board approved the requests submitted by the Boards of 
Directors of the Federal Reserve Banks of Boston, New York, Cleveland 
and San Francisco. 

*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*

     The following is the statement released by the FOMC on Oct. 8, 
2008:

     The Federal Open Market Committee has decided to lower its target 
for the federal funds rate 50 basis points to 1-1/2 percent. The 
Committee took this action in light of evidence pointing to a weakening 
of economic activity and a reduction in inflationary pressures. 

     Incoming economic data suggest that the pace of economic activity 
has slowed markedly in recent months. Moreover, the intensification of 
financial market turmoil is likely to exert additional restraint on 
spending, partly by further reducing the ability of households and 
businesses to obtain credit. Inflation has been high, but the Committee 
believes that the decline in energy and other commodity prices and the 
weaker prospects for economic activity have reduced the upside risks to 
inflation. 

     The Committee will monitor economic and financial developments 
carefully and will act as needed to promote sustainable economic growth 
and price stability. 

     Voting for the FOMC monetary policy action were: Ben S. Bernanke, 
Chairman; Timothy F. Geithner, Vice Chairman; Elizabeth A. Duke; Richard 
W. Fisher; Donald L. Kohn; Randall S. Kroszner; Sandra Pianalto; Charles 
I. Plosser; Gary H. Stern; and Kevin M. Warsh. 

     In a related action, the Board of Governors unanimously approved a 
50-basis-point decrease in the discount rate to 1-3/4 percent. In taking 
this action, the Board approved the request submitted by the Board of 
Directors of the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston. 

    ** Market News International Washington Bureau: 202-371-2121 **
 
[TOPICS: MMUFE$,MGU$$$,M$U$$$,MAUDS$]
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | e1101 : Economic Growth | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBMarket News International, Inc.   ANDocument MARNEW0020081030e4at00009  



 HDMcCain: Fed 50 BP Rate Cut Was 'Probably Necessary'   WC325 words   PD30 October 2008   ET02:56   SNMarket News International   SCMARNEW   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008. Market News International, Inc.   
   TD

By Steven K. Beckner

     Market News International - Republican presidential nominee John 
McCain endorsed the Federal Reserve's latest interest rate cut Wednesday 
night. 

     The Republican Senator from Arizona, appearing on CNN's Larry King 
Show, was asked whether he favored the Fed's 50 basis point rate cut 
announced earlier Wednesday. 

     Answering in the affirmative, McCain said, "it was probably 
necessary." 

     The Federal Reserve's policymaking Federal Open Market Committee 
cut the federal funds rate from 1.5% to 1.0%, three weeks after cutting 
it from 2.0% to 1.5%. The discount rate was lowered a like amount. 

     In cutting the funds rate, the Fed suggested further rate cuts 
might be needed. The Fed rate announcement cited weak consumer and 
business spending and said intensified financial turmoil will likely 
"exert additional restraint on spending... ." It said past actions 
"should help over time to improve credit conditions and promote a return 
to moderate economic growth," but warned, "downside risks to growth 
remain." 

     After speaking favorably of the Fed action, McCain spoke less 
favorably of the Treasury's approach to the financial crisis. 

     Returning to a favorite theme of his campaign, McCain said more 
focus needs to be placed on getting home values back up. 

     That is "the most important thing," he said. 

     McCain said the federal government should "go out and buy these 
mortgages and reverse this alarming trend in the value of homes." He 
said he has been "disappointed" that the Bush administration has not 
adopted that approach. 

     The U.S. Treasury has the authority to use the $700 billion 
Troubled Asset Relief Program to buy mortgage loans, as well as other 
bad assets and bank equity, and Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson has 
talked about possibly buying "whole loans." But it has not been a point 
of emphasis for the TARP so far. 

             ** Market News International ** 

[TOPICS: M$U$$$,MMUFE$,MGU$$$,MFU$$$,M$$BR$]
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | gvote1 : National/Presidential Elections | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvote : Elections   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBMarket News International, Inc.   ANDocument MARNEW0020081030e4au0003g  



 HDFOMC Cuts Rates 50bp,Readies For More, Cites 'Downside Risks'   WC1,230 words   PD29 October 2008   ET20:29   SNMarket News International   SCMARNEW   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008. Market News International, Inc.   
   TD

By Steven K. Beckner

     Market News International - The Federal Reserve's policymaking 
Federal Open Market Committee, as expected, slashed short-term interest 
rates again Wednesday to their lowest level in more than four years. 

     And the FOMC, in its rate announcement, evinced a readiness to cut 
rates even further. 

     The FOMC cut the federal funds rate, at which banks lend to each 
other overnight, 50 basis points to just 1.0%. The discount rate, at 
which the Fed itself lends to banks, was cut the same amount to 1.25%, 
preserving the 25 basis point spread between the two rates that has 
prevailed since March 16. It was the Fed's second 50 basis point rate 
cut in three weeks. 

     On Oct. 8, the FOMC cut the funds rate from 2.0% to 1.5% after an 
inter-meeting conference call. 

     Like the earlier rate action, this one was unanimous. 

     Unlike the earlier rate cut, it was not done in conjunction with 
other major central banks. However, there have been strong indications 
that foreign rate cuts are on the way. European Central Bank President 
Jean Claude Trichet strongly hinted Monday that the ECB will cut its 
"refi" rate from 3.75% to 3.25% when its governing council meets on Nov. 
6. 

     The People's Bank of China  has already cut its benchmark one-year 
lending rate by 27 basis points to 6.66% and deposit rate to 3.60%. 

     The Fed has now cut the federal funds rate by a total of 425 basis 
points since last September. The problem is that neither its monetary 
easing nor its liquidity provisions has worked to resolve the credit 
crisis and prevent its adverse spillover effects. 

     It has been the Fed's contention that, were it not for its 
aggressive monetary and credit policies, financial conditions would be 
far worse. Nevertheless, while there has lately been some narrowing of 
credit spreads, Fed rate cuts and other efforts have largely failed to 
bring down private borrowing rates and induce more lending.   

     The latest rate cut, coming as it does from a very low level, is a 
much bigger proportional reduction than earlier cuts. In lowering the 
funds rate from 1.5% to 1.0%, the Fed cut rates by a third. By contrast, 
the 75 basis point  intermeeting cut done on Jan. 22, lowered the funds 
rate by less than 18%. 

     The funds rate was last at 1% in mid-2004, just before the FOMC 
raised it to 1.25% on June 30, beginning a long series of incremental 
rate hikes that took the rate to 5.25% on June 29, 2006. 

     The FOMC had cut the rate to 1% on June 25, 2003, culminating 550 
basis points of rate cuts that began in June 2000. 

     Explaining its latest action, the Fed said, "The pace of economic 
activity appears to have slowed markedly, owing importantly to a decline 
in consumer expenditures. Business equipment spending and industrial 
production have weakened in recent months, and slowing economic activity 
in many foreign economies is damping the prospects for U.S. exports." 

     "Moreover," the Fed warned, "the intensification of financial 
market turmoil is likely to exert additional restraint on spending, 
partly by further reducing the ability of households and businesses to 
obtain credit." 

     The rate announcement downplayed inflation, despite speculation 
that the Fed's battle multifaceted battle against the financial crisis 
has long-term inflation implications. 

     "In light of the declines in the prices of energy and other 
commodities and the weaker prospects for economic activity, the 
Committee expects inflation to moderate in coming quarters to levels 
consistent with price stability," it said. 

     Further rate cuts are possible, though not assured, the FOMC made 
clear. 

     "Recent policy actions, including today's rate reduction, 
coordinated interest rate cuts by central banks, extraordinary liquidity 
measures, and official steps to strengthen financial systems, should 
help over time to improve credit conditions and promote a return to 
moderate economic growth," the Fed said. 

     "Nevertheless, downside risks to growth remain," it added. "The 
Committee will monitor economic and financial developments carefully and 
will act as needed to promote sustainable economic growth and price 
stability." 

     The reduction in the federal funds rate will mean a comparable and 
automatic lowering of the rates which the Fed pays banks on reserves. 
The rate paid on required reserves will decline from 1.4% to 0.90%. The 
rate paid on excess reserves will go from 1.15% to 0.65%. 

     The payment of interest on reserves, which was authorized by 
Congress on Oct. 3 and which took effect on Oct. 9, was designed in 
large part to set a floor under the funds rate and make it easier for 
the Fed to hit its funds rate target as it expands its balance sheet 
through its multiple liquidity facilities. 

     The Fed has continued to have difficulty hitting its target in the 
current chaotic money market, leading some to allege that the Fed has 
been deliberately letting the funds rate trade below target. But MNI's 
understanding is that it is not the Fed's intention to let the funds 
rate float below target in an effort to run a more expansionary monetary 
policy than implied by the target. 

     One of the FOMC's tasks over the past two days has been to revise 
its quarterly, three-year forecast. The new projections won't be 
announced until the Fed releases minutes of the FOMC meeting in three 
weeks. But the rate announcement strongly suggests that the forecast was 
extensively downgraded. 

     At the late June FOMC meeting, Federal Reserve Governors and 
Federal Reserve Bank Presidents projected real GDP growth of 1.0-1.6% 
for 2008 -- down from 0.3-1.2% in the April forecast. Growth was 
projected at 2.0-2.8% in 2009 and 2.5-3.0% in 2010. 

     The mid-year forecast called for unemployment of 5.5-5.7% in 2008, 
the same as projected in April. Unemployment was forecast at 5.3-5.8% in 
2009 and 5.0-5.6% in 2010. 

     It would be surprising if, when it is released in a few weeks, the 
new FOMC forecast doesn't show lower growth projections for both 2008 
and 2009, if not for 2010. And it is likely to point to higher 
unemployment. 

     The mid-year forecast anticipated headline inflation, as measured 
by the price index for personal consumption expenditures, of 3.8-4.2% 
for 2008, falling to 2.0-2.3% in 2009 and 1.8-2.0% in 2010. 

     The core PCE was projected to rise 2.2-2.4% in 2008, then moderate 
to 2.0-2.2% in 209 and 1.8-2.0% in 2010. 

     Given the Fed's warning that intensified financial turmoil will 
likely "exert additional restraint on spending," the new forecasts, when 
released, are sure to project significantly slower growth, higher 
unemployment and lower inflation over the coming year or more. 

     Wall Street seemed to take the Fed action in stride. Prior to the 
slightly delayed rate announcement the Dow was up roughly 83 points. An 
hour later, it was still up, but more modestly. Oil, up by $5.15 per 
barrel before the announcement, sustained most of that rise. 

               ** Market News International ** 

[TOPICS: M$U$$$,MMUFE$,MGU$$$,MFU$$$,MT$$$$,M$$BR$]
   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | e1101 : Economic Growth | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBMarket News International, Inc.   ANDocument MARNEW0020081030e4at0000y  

 Economists React: Door Open to Further Cuts
WSJ Blogs, 20:50, 29 October 2008, 1102 words, (English)
Economists and others weigh in on the Federal Reserve's decision to cut interest rates by half a percentage point.
The rate cut is accompanied by a very downbeat statement, with all mention of upside inflation risks expunged from the ...
Document WCWSJB0020091010e4at00d0g



 SEAWSJ   HDInterbank rates decline as Fed program begins; Central bank sets  interest rate  of 1.88% on commercial paper   BYBy Emily Barrett     CRThe Wall Street Journal Asia   WC479 words   PD28 October 2008   SNThe Wall Street Journal Online   SCWSJO   PGAWSJ   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2008 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.  
   LPNEW YORK -- It's too soon to say whether the Federal Reserve's support program for commercial paper, exercised for the first time Monday, is helping to get short-term debt markets back on track.

The main indicators were little changed from where they were late last week, pointing to a stall in what had been an encouraging trend of improvement.
   TDInterbank lending rates inched lower again Monday, but the gap between the banks' premiums on lending to each other and the targeted central bank rate has widened. That's because markets that trade on the expectations of where that target rate will be in the coming months are betting heavily on a cut Thursday by the Federal Reserve. They've fully priced the benchmark funding rate to drop from the current 1.5% to 1%, with more to follow. Futures markets put the average for Fed funds over the next three months at just 0.887%.

That compares with a benchmark rate on three-month lending in the private sector at 3.5075%, according to Monday's daily Libor fixing by the British Bankers Association. That's down from 3.51625% Friday -- a modest drop compared with the steep declines seen last week.

The Fed's first intervention in the $1.45 trillion commercial-paper market kicked off Monday. The program allows high-grade issuers -- American Express and General Electric are among the several dozen participants signed up -- to sell their three-month commercial paper to the central bank. The interest rate, published by the New York Fed Monday, is 1.88%, and it's 3.88% for the asset-backed paper that has seen the worst drop-off in demand since the credit crisis struck.

The rates are "certainly onerous," said Ira Jersey, rates strategist at Credit Suisse in New York, but he pointed out this is supposed to be a backstop facility, rather than a cheap substitute for the regular trading relationships in this troubled market. And the cost is lower than the Libor rate on unsecured three-month funds.

It's hard to tell what the markets are making of it so far -- one trader said he had processed $2 billion in asset-backed paper Monday morning, but most was for paper maturing in just one day.

Treasurys continued to fluctuate, though prices early on were down a little from overnight, when fears that the credit crisis is spreading to the Gulf states spurred more buying in government paper internationally.

At noon, the two-year note was up 1/32 to yield 1.536%, and the benchmark 10-year Treasury note was up 6/32 at 3.674%.

Write to Emily Barrett at emily.barrett@dowjones.com  
   NSc172 : Corporate Debt Instruments | e1202 : Interest Rates | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | c17 : Funding/Capital | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPDIra Jersey | AWSJ   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument WSJO000020091008e4as001uo  



 SEMarkets   HDCommercial-Paper Market Is Recovering   BYBy Anusha Shrivastava     WC871 words   PD30 October 2008   SNThe Wall Street Journal Online   SCWSJO   PGMarkets; C2   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2008 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.  
   LPThe $1.45 trillion commercial-paper market is showing increased signs of healing, thanks to the Federal Reserve's backstop program launched Monday.

Rates are coming down, further aided by the central bank's interest-rate cut to 1% Wednesday, and volumes are picking up. Issuers are announcing they have access to or are making use of the Fed's offer to buy their commercial paper. More important, traders are reporting that longer-term deals are getting done outside the Fed's backstop, a major sign that the program is working as planned.
   TD"We're starting to see a thawing take hold," said Kevin Giddis, head of fixed income at Morgan Keegan. "Issuers are getting comfortable with the backstop, and investors are more willing to take on credits they weren't willing to before."

The Fed stepped in to support the commercial-paper market, where companies fund their day-to-day financing needs to pay rents and payrolls, as investors after the Lehman Brothers bankruptcy turned extremely risk averse and would lend for only the shortest periods. With loans mainly available only overnight, if at all, companies were facing a funding squeeze.

Signs of easing strains are visible, particularly in the asset-backed commercial-paper market. Rates there have come down, and demand has risen for debt maturing in 30 to 90 days, said one trader at a primary dealer. Of the $5.5 billion he processed Wednesday, 40% was for longer-term paper, rather than the overnight maturities previously preferred by investors, the trader said.

Rates for unsecured commercial paper, however, remain around the rate the Fed is charging. For debt maturing in 90 days, the top-tier names are matching the Fed's effective rate of 2.84%, and some issuers offered higher rates at 3.05%, Morgan Keegan's Mr. Giddis said. The lower-rated issuers offered between 3.5% and 4.25% Wednesday.

The success of the Fed's program also can be seen in the sharp rise in borrowings for 81 days. Fed data show companies borrowed $41.6 billion Tuesday in this maturity, after borrowing $67.1 billion Monday, presumably most of it from the Fed.

Companies that have tapped the program include General Electric Co., American Express Co. and the financing arm of Harley-Davidson Inc., which said it also used the traditional commercial-paper market. The financing arms of the U.S. auto makers have also registered for the program, as have Morgan Stanley and UBS AG.

Caterpillar Inc., however, said it continues to use "the traditional or 'regular' CP markets, which ... we have been using many years, including in the last several months."

Doug Cameron and Aparajita Saha-Bubna contributed to this article.

MGM's New Bonds Battle a Downgrade

Already battling hostile market conditions for new bond issuance, MGM Mirage Wednesday saw its credit rating cut just as the casino operator was trying to sell a new note offering.

Standard &Poor's lowered its corporate credit and issue-level rating on Las Vegas-based MGM by one notch, to BB- from BB, with a negative outlook, after disappointing third-quarter earnings.

MGM was conducting an investor call to try to sell as much as $1 billion in senior secured five-year notes. Proceeds will be used to repay part of the amount outstanding under a revolving credit facility. S&P put the size of the facility at $4.5 billion.

A market participant familiar with the deal said lead underwriter Banc of America Securities was shopping the notes with a coupon in the 11.75% to 12% area at a discount to yield in the area of 14% to 14.5%. Banc of America Securities declined to comment.

MGM brought the offering to market despite the lack of new bond deals for more than a month and high-risk premiums for corporate bonds.

S&P assigned a BB rating to the new notes, one notch higher than MGM's corporate rating.

Tuesday, Coca-Cola Enterprises postponed a $1 billion bond offering after S&P changed the outlook for the Atlanta bottling company to negative from stable. The company sold the bonds Wednesday.

Michael Aneiro

Shorter Treasurys Rise, But Longer Ones Fall

Short-dated Treasurys gained Wednesday after the Federal Reserve cut its key interest rate to 1% and opened the door to further reductions as downside risks to growth persist.

Treasury bills garnered the heaviest buying, while the two-year note, the most sensitive to changes in the interest-rate outlook, also benefited, with its yield at one point dipping below 1.5%.

Annualized yields on three-month bills ended down to 0.609%, from 0.772% Tuesday. Bond yields fall when prices rise. The two-year Treasury note gained 4/32, or $1.25 for every $1,000 invested, to yield 1.58%.

Longer-dated Treasurys fell, however, amid concerns about supply amid reports the government is in advanced talks about a plan that could help as many as three million homeowners avoid foreclosure. The 10-year bond dropped 15/32 to yield 3.88%.

Min Zeng

Write to Anusha Shrivastava at anusha.shrivastava@dowjones.com  
   NSmntdbt : National Government Debt/Bond Markets | c172 : Corporate Debt Instruments | e1202 : Interest Rates | c173 : Financing Agreements | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | c17 : Funding/Capital | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPDKevin Giddis | Credit Markets   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument WSJO000020091008e4au001xz  



 HDINSTANT VIEW 6-FOMC cuts target rate to 1 pct   WC2,601 words   PD29 October 2008   ET20:07   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited   
   LPNEW YORK, Oct 29 (Reuters) - The U.S. Federal Reserve cut a key interest rate by a hefty half-percentage point on Wednesday to prevent a widening credit crisis from tipping the United States into a deep and prolonged recession.

Story: [ID:nN29478433] Text: [ID:nTRT000340] KEY POINTS: * The Fed's decision takes its target for overnight bank lending to 1 percent, the lowest since June 2004. * Wall Street was united in the opinion the Fed would lower rates, although views were split on the likely size of the move. * The U.S. central bank has cut benchmark overnight rates from 5.25 percent in nine steps over the past 13 months to counter a financial storm that started with the collapse of the U.S. mortgage market and spread around the world. COMMENTS:
   TDKEVIN LOGAN, SENIOR U.S. ECONOMIST, DRESDNER KLEINWORT, NEW YORK:

"It was pretty much as expected. We had been telling everybody it would be 25 but with everything that has happened in the last week, 50 was looking increasingly likely. The statement has dropped any reference to inflation being a concern, they have gradually moved away from that for the 


obvious reasons that the economy is in a recession -- of
course, they didn't say that -- that it is likely to persist


and that is going to create more economic slack and it reduces the likelihood that inflation is going to move higher and increases the likelihood that inflation is going to move lower. They made a passing reference to that, that inflation is likely to moderate in coming quarters."

STUART HOFFMAN, CHIEF ECONOMIST, PNC FINANCIAL GROUP, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIA:

"The markets got the rate cut that they expected and a policy statement that was decidedly downbeat on the economy.

"With inflation headed toward where the Fed wants it and the economy weak, the Fed cut the federal funds rate 50 basis points and left the door wide open to another rate cut when they meet in December, if not before, which would bring rates down to historically low levels. The Fed is leaving all options open on the fed funds rate as well as the other extraordinary liquidity measures to keep the economy from being choked off."

BRIAN LEVITT, ECONOMIST, OPPENHEIMERFUNDS, NEW YORK:

"We continue to see the Federal Reserve board act quite aggressively. It is interesting to me that by lowering short-term interest rates that doesn't necessarily have a huge effect on economic conditions. It doesn't necessarily have a huge effect on many of the problems that continue to persist for the financial system, the concerns about short-term lending and whether banks are well-capitalized.

"If I'm a bank and I have good cash on the balance sheet and I'm not willing to lend to another bank at 1.5 percent, why would I be willing to lend at 1 percent?

"There is plenty of money out there, it is just getting back the confidence for good quality lending to recommence and lowering short-term interest rates doesn't necessarily get us there.

"What the Federal Reserve is trying to do is stem this deflationary environment, get more money into the system by lowering short-term interest rates and get a little bit more inflation expectations back, in which case businesses and consumers could start spending again. They are trying to use all the tools at their disposal."

JOE KINAHAN, CHIEF DERIVATIVES STRATEGIST, THINKORSWIM GROUP, CHICAGO

"There is light volume and the path of least resistance is on the sell side. People had long stock positions yesterday and they are taking some profits. The only thing that would have surprised the market was the Fed not doing a 50 basis point cut."

CHIP HANLON, PRESIDENT DELTA GLOBAL ADVISORS, HUNTINGTON BEACH, CALIFORNIA:

"Those looking for a Fed-inspired rally were probably mildly disappointed by a cut of only 50 basis points. I say only with fingers making quotes in the air."

"Bigger picture, I don't think anyone believes that any interest rate cuts are going to affect the underlying issues surrounding mortgage-related and consumer-related credit. I think today's move is pretty meaningless. We've got a deleveraging period to go to."

BRUCE DUNN, VICE PRESIDENT OF TRADING, AURAMET TRADING, NEW JERSEY:

"I think it has already been factored into the market, honestly. That's why gold had these substantial rallies."

"Nothing has changed in the last 48 hours. They cut rates, so what? They have been cutting rates for a long time, and things have progressively gotten worse. Look at the consumer confidence number. People are very scared, and it's not a pretty picture out there."

C.J. GAVSIE, MANAGING DIRECTOR, BMO CAPITAL MARKETS, TORONTO:

"The Fed delivered a 50 basis point cut as expected. We did see the euro tick lower versus the dollar but that was because people were setting themselevs for a move outside of the norm -- a surprise 75 basis point cut. When they did not get it, they took some of the bets off the table. But all these moves are just short-term. We think there will be more rate cuts by December. So let's see how this all plays out."

JOHN PRAVEEN, CHIEF INVESTMENT STRATEGIST, PRUDENTIAL INTERNATIONAL INVESTMENTS ADVISERS LLC, NEWARK, NEW JERSEY,

"Basically the Fed validated market expectations, and I don't think they had any choice. If they had not done this the reaction would have been much more negative.

"The rate that is of great importance in the markets right now is the Libor rate, and the Libor feeds off the Fed funds rate. It has come down a bit, but it's still elevated. You need the Fed funds rate to come down further, so that Libor comes down and does not do any ever-lasting damage to the economy.

"All of this is meant to stimulate markets and prevent the recession from being as deep as it could be."

IAN SHEPHERDSON, CHIEF U.S. ECONOMIST, HIGH FREQUENCY ECONOMICS, VALHALLA, NEW YORK:

"The Fed eased by 50 basis points, as expected, on a unanimous vote. The rate cut was accompanied by a very downbeat statement, with all mention of upside inflation risks expunged from the record. Indeed, the statement says that the drop in commodity prices and the deteriorating growth outlook mean 'the Committee expects inflation to moderate in coming quarters to levels consistent with price stability.' Moreover, the door is open to further easing, with the FOMC stating baldly that "downside risks to growth remain", thanks to the decline in consumption, "weakened" industrial activity and worsening export prospects. In short, we view this as the first entirely realistic assessment from the Fed in this whole cycle. We expect another 50 basis point rate cut on December 16."

CHRIS JARVIS, SENIOR ANALYST, CAPROCK RISK MANAGEMENT, HAMPTON FALLS, NEW HAMPSHIRE:

"Today's FOMC action to cut the Fed Funds rate and Discount Rate by 50 basis points is all part of the ongoing fight to offset the credit crisis, which has driven economic growth globally to a stand still at best.

"Even though much of the move was somewhat priced into the market, the fact that the markets got what they were looking for in an environment that has produced a huge cloud of uncertainty means investors will breathe a sigh of relief that the system resembles something that is near normal.

"In short, there may be a knee jerk move lower as some investors were hoping for a 75 basis point rate cut, but once the dust settles, the markets should continue to find a bottom and move higher as globally liquidity floods the markets." [20081029 190724 GMT]

ALAN RUSKIN, CHIEF INTERNATIONAL STRATEGIST, RBS GLOBAL BANKING AND MARKETS, GREENWICH, CONNECTICUT:

"The Fed duly delivered the 50 basis point cut that was widely seen as the most likely course of action. The Fed statement resembles the Oct 8th statement closely enough in sentiment, but draws out in more detail the weakness foreseen in all of the major GDP components. The Fed notes again that they will monitor economic and financial developments carefully and will act as needed to promote sustainable economic growth and price stability. This leaves the door open to further rate reductions, though plainly they are running out of interest rate bullets, so the ammunition will have to concentrate on liquidity/capital provisions as they have for the most part done in recent months. There may be a little profit-taking on positive risk appetite trades now that the Fed has delivered the much expected rate cut. Nonetheless, even a modest down day on stocks would be considered a victory for risk appetite in the bigger scheme of things, after yesterday's major gains."

MOHAMED EL-ERIAN, CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER, PIMCO, NEWPORT BEACH, CALIFORNIA:

"The decision to cut by 50 basis points to 1 percent is consistent with market expectations. It is notable that the Fed 


is indicating that every single component of private demand --
consumption, investment and exports -- has now slowed and that


further weakening is possible in the period ahead. Looking forward, the market will now be busy assessing the extent to which it should price in an additional interest rate cut before the end of 2008."

MARC GROZ, MANAGING MEMBER, TOPOS LLC, STAMFORD, CONNECTICUT:

"What the Fed did was widely expected and, as a result, a little ho-hum. Stocks sold off a little bit. There was a high probability of a bounce in the week going into the election. Now I have a slight upward bias on stocks going into the election. There's a war going on between the bulls and bears. It's a matter of who needs to do what, not who believes what. The bulls are people who have to allocate to equities because of their investment guidelines. And the bears have to de-lever because they are getting margin calls and investor redemptions and they need to raise cash. The question is who will win that tug-of-war? If there were more transparency you would know how much deleveraging has to take place. Afterwards there will be some post-election rally no matter who wins just because we will be dealing with less uncertainty. November tends to be a good entry point anyway. The foreign exchange market also creates more uncertainty. We could see a nice bounce in 2009 in a long-term secular bear market."

ANDREW RICHMAN, FIXED INCOME STRATEGIST, SUNTRUST PRIVATE WEALTH MANAGEMENT DIVISION, PALM BEACH, FLORIDA:

"Two things that jump out from previous statements: the declining consumer expenditure and mentioning the slowdown as global. Inflation didn't seem to be a worry."

"I think if things get worse, they may lower again."

"The rates are low enough but there is just not enough lending. This is a confidence builder more than anything else given all the extraordinary measures they have undertaken."

JOE SALUZZI, CO-MANAGER OF TRADING AT THEMIS TRADING, CHATHAM, NEW JERSEY:

"You're seeing typical Fed reaction, which mean the stock market goes up and down. That will probably last for 15 minutes to a half-hour before they all figure out which way to go.

"I guess the market priced in 50 basis-point cut. You're getting to a level of how much more can they cut and is this doing really anything? I think some of their comments are interesting, that's more important than the actual rate cut itself."

TIM EVANS, ENERGY ANALYST, CITI FUTURES PERSPECTIVE, NEW YORK:

"I don't think it has a direct impact on oil demand, I don't expect it to put more cars on the road or make the coming winter colder so I'm not really looking for a direct impact on petroleum use.

What it may do is perhaps weaken the US dollar, perhaps support the stock market, and those would be supportive factors for oil prices.

I don't think we're talking about full bull market mode but I think in combination with OPEC's decision to cut quotas we've taken some of the downside potential out of the market and we could see prices spring back up to the $70 to $80 range."

BRUCE MCCAIN, CHIEF INVESTMENT STRATEGIST, KEY PRIVATE BANK, CLEVELAND, OHIO:

"In terms of the rate cut they met expectations pretty much down the line. They indicated some concerns with the marked weakening of the economy and consumer spending. This is consistent with the messages we have had between meetings."

"With stocks a lot of it (expectations for the rate cut) was built in yesterday. We are still in a bottoming process and there is a lot of trouble ahead economically."

"The rate cuts are really a side show. The real story is that irrespective of rate cuts you have to get the lending institutions to start making loans."

ANDY LEBOW, BROKER, MF GLOBAL, NEW YORK:

"This latest Fed rate cut hopefully could serve to revive the economy and for the long-term improve demand for crude oil and petroleum products. At the moment, I don't see the Fed decision affecting session prices on crude futures. NYMEX crude is holding on to large gains made earlier. It doesn't look like there are any impulse buying or selling at the moment."

PETER SCHIFF, PRESIDENT, EURO PACIFIC CAPITAL, DARIEN, CONNECTICUT:

"With today's 50 basis point rate cut the Fed is throwing gasoline on an inflationary fire that it created but continues to ignore. The Fed has mistaken temporary drops in commodity prices, which merely resulted from de-leveraging, for clear evidence that the inflation menace has been quelled. However, once highly leveraged players have been flushed out, commodity prices will resume their ascent, pushed skyward by the most inflationary monetary policy in history."

"The Fed must also believe that recent dollar strength allows them to ease policy without jeopardizing the stability 


of the dollar.  Again the Fed has merely confused de-leveraging
with legitimate fundamental strength.  Soon the dollar rally
will run out of steam, with irresponsible rate cuts only
accelerating the downward pressure.  Before long the Fed will


be in a box, where it will have to choose between raising interest rates to fight inflation, or keep them low to prop up the faltering economy. With the Fed invariably using its power to pump up spending at all costs, inflation be damned, we know what path they will choose."

STEPHEN SCHORK, EDITOR, THE SCHORK REPORT, PHILADELPHIA, PENNSYLVANIA:

"The dollar is getting pummeled. The trade is essentially selling dollars to buy crude. There is a 90 percent inverse correlation between the two. As one goes, so goes the other but in the opposite direction. I think the dollar is a bigger driver than the stock market for oil."

JOHN MCCARTHY, DIRECTOR OF FX TRADING, ING CAPITAL MARKETS, NEW YORK:

"Not much of a reaction, it was a little bit late. The dollar rallying just a little bit against the euro although equities have given up gains. We are seeing the yen crosses rally a bit now. MARKET REACTION: STOCKS: Benchmark U.S. equity indexes shed most gains. BONDS: Treasury debt prices held at higher levels. DOLLAR: U.S. dollar pared losses against euro. [20081029 191017 GMT]
   RFUSA-MARKETS/FOMC (INSTANT VIEW)|LANGEN|Table|ABN|E|RBN|U|D|M|C|O|MTL|GRO|SOF|OIL|USA-MARKETS/FOMC (INSTANT VIEW)=2|LANGEN|Table|ABN|E|RBN|U|D|M|C|O|MTL|GRO|SOF|OIL|chained   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | usnj : New Jersey | namz : North America | use : Northeast U.S.   IPCMCE | ECI | PLCY | CEN | FED | MUNI | DBT | COFS | FIN | BSVC | FINS | INVS | FUND | BANK | US/INSTANT | EMBG:DBT | EMBG:PLCY | EMBG:US/INSTANT | embargokeyE2E2E2E2E2E2E2E2E2   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020081101e4at000g3  



 HDTOPWRAP 14-US, China kick off global round of rate cuts   WC1,180 words   PD29 October 2008   ET23:50   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited   
   LP * US Fed cuts rates 1/2 point, as expected

 * China, Norway cut rates; markets eye Japan next
   TD * Wall St ends lower; dollar falls; oil surges

 * IMF approves emergency fund for emerging markets

 * US mulls guaranteeing up to $600 bln in home loans  (For full crisis coverage, double click on nCRISIS])

 By Claudia Parsons

 NEW YORK, Oct 29 (Reuters) - The United States and China kicked off what is likely to be a global round of interest rate cuts, part of a barrage of measures deployed around the world to fight a deep economic slowdown.

 Norway also cut interest rates and Britain indicated it may lift self-imposed limits on government borrowing to counter a recession that stems from the financial crisis triggered by the collapsed U.S. housing bubble.

 "The markets got the (U.S.) rate cut that they expected and a policy statement that was decidedly downbeat on the economy," said Stuart Hoffman, chief economist at PNC Financial Group in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, after the U.S. Federal Reserve cut interest rates by half a percentage point on Wednesday.

 Japan may cut rates on Friday and the European Central Bank and Britain are expected to add to the monetary easing next week as authorities remain fearful that the worst financial crisis in 80 years will cause a long global recession.

 U.S. regulators are finalizing a new federal program to provide up to $600 billion in government guarantees of home mortgages to help prevent foreclosures, a source familiar with the talks said. The program could be announced as soon as Thursday, the source said.

 The International Monetary Fund approved an emergency short-term liquidity facility for emerging market economies to help them weather the credit crisis.

 The Fed said the pace of U.S. economic activity appeared to have slowed markedly and it expected inflation to moderate as a result of lower energy and commodities prices.

 Major U.S. stock indexes rallied more than two percent before falling back to close lower.

 Analysts welcomed the move but said it had already been priced in and the outlook remains grim.

 "Bigger picture, I don't think anyone believes that any interest rate cuts are going to affect the underlying issues surrounding mortgage-related and consumer-related credit," said Chip Hanlon, president of Delta Global Advisors in Huntington Beach, California.

 China, increasingly appearing to be the world's last engine of economic growth, cut its interest rate to 6.66 percent from 6.93.

 Norway's central bank cut rates by half a percentage point to 4.75 percent, signaling more moderate cuts ahead to help shield the oil-fuelled economy from the crisis.

 WORLD STOCKS RISE, DOLLAR DOWN

 The interest rate cuts, and expectations of the U.S. cut, lifted world stock markets and sent the U.S. dollar plunging to its biggest one-day drop in 23 years, sparking a 7 percent surge in oil.

 Japan's Nikkei index ended up 7.7 percent and European shares climbed 7.5 percent.

 Wall Street followed Tuesday's 10 percent rally, its second-biggest rise ever, with a volatile day. The Dow ended down 0.82 percent and the S&P 500 fell 1.11 percent, reversing a rally after the Fed cut.

 The Dow lost more than 300 points in the last 12 minutes after a news report raised questions about General Electric's earnings outlook. After the close, GE said its CEO's comments had been taken out of context and there were no new forecasts. The news service corrected its report, and GE stock rebounded after-hours.

 The report had revived fears about corporate profits, on a day when two of the largest U.S. auto parts makers, BorgWarner Inc and Tenneco Inc, said the economic crisis would mean more job cuts and plant closings.

 General Motors Corp reported an 11 percent drop in third-quarter auto global sales and said global sales for the industry dropped about 7 percent. GM has asked the U.S. government for some $10 billion to support a merger with smaller rival Chrysler, sources said.

 The former head of the U.S. National Bureau of Economic Research, Martin Feldstein, was quoted as saying the United States has entered a recession that will last longer and do more damage than any since World War Two.

 Economists expect U.S. GDP figures on Thursday to show a 0.5 percent decline in July-September, according to the median of forecasts in a Reuters poll, and many see that as the start of a contraction lasting at least nine months.

 As the U.S. presidential campaign hit the final stretch before Nov. 4, Republican John McCain questioned Democratic rival Barack Obama's readiness for the White House, saying he would be bad news for small business.

 Obama, who polls show is trusted more on the economy by voters, said McCain's policies would hurt the middle class.

 British finance minister Alistair Darling said Britain is moving into recession and the government will need to spend more and forget about its self-imposed limits on borrowing for the time being.

 EYES ON JAPAN, EUROPE NEXT

 The Bank of Japan will consider cutting rates on Friday but will watch market conditions before deciding, a source with knowledge of the matter told Reuters.

 The European Central Bank and the Bank of England are expected to ease policy at their regular meetings next week. The ECB is expected to cut a half point off rates to 3.25 percent, according to a Reuters poll.

 Governments have pledged about $4 trillion to support banks and restart money markets to try to stem the crisis set off by the bursting of a bubble in the U.S. housing market.

 There were more signs that the acute financing difficulties were easing. The closely watched rates that banks charge each other to borrow dollars fell again as central banks continued to inject extra liquidity into the system.

 As credit lines have dried up, a growing number of governments have had to look for help from global lenders.

 The IMF, European Union and World Bank agreed to a $25.1 billion economic rescue package for Hungary.

 Ukraine, Belarus, Pakistan and Iceland are also in various stages of seeking, securing or considering IMF help.

 South Korea denied speculation it was seeking IMF support but said it would ease won liquidity requirements on banks to help bring down their funding costs.

 IMF officials have said the fund may need additional resources in a prolonged crisis and European Commission President Jose Manuel Barroso said on Wednesday China and the Gulf countries could do more to help the IMF support countries hit by the financial crisis.

 The U.S. Federal Reserve established four new currency swap lines with Brazil, Mexico, South Korea and Singapore, to ease dollar funding shortages.  (Reporting by Reuters bureaus worldwide; Editing by Chizu Nomiyama, Gary Hill)   
   RFFINANCIAL/ (TOPWRAP 14, PIX)|LANGEN|AFA|CSA|LBY|RWSA|RWS|REULB|GNS|ABX|BNX|SXNA   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News   REchina : China | usa : United States | asiaz : Asia | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020081029e4at002ni  



 HDHK Central Bank Cuts Base Rate 50 BP to Match Fed Move   WC172 words   PD30 October 2008   ET00:52   SNMarket News International   SCMARNEW   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008. Market News International, Inc.   
   LP

     HONG KONG (XFN) - The Hong Kong Monetary Authority announced 
Thursday that it had lowered its base interest rate charged through its 
overnight discount window by 50 basis points to 1.50%. 

     The central bank's move matched the U.S. Federal Reserve's decision 
to cut its benchmark federal funds rate by a half-percentage point to 
1.0% on Wednesday, a move aimed at easing credit conditions and 
supporting the U.S. economy, which analysts say risks falling into a 
prolonged recession. 

     Hong Kong tracks U.S. rate moves because its currency is pegged to 
the U.S. dollar. Local banks, however, have some leeway to lag U.S. rate 
moves and may not follow the U.S. rate cut, analysts said. 

     The monetary authority sets its base rate through a formula that 
includes the U.S. federal funds rate. 

                        beijing@marketnews.com      
     ** Market News International Beijing Newsroom +86-10 5864 5241** 

[TOPICS: M$Q$$$,M$A$$$]
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | hkong : Hong Kong | asiaz : Asia | china : China | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America   PUBMarket News International, Inc.   ANDocument MARNEW0020081030e4at0002y  



 HDS.African stocks jump on rates, metals; rand dips   BYBy Rebecca Harrison and Gordon Bell     WC665 words   PD30 October 2008   ET17:02   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited  
   LPJOHANNESBURG, Oct 30 (Reuters) - South African stocks leapt more than 5 percent on Thursday after a U.S. Federal Reserve interest rate cut boosted global equities and domestic inflation data backed the case for lower borrowing costs at home.

But the rand currency gave back hefty early gains in another volatile session after the dollar rose to session highs on month-end portfolio rebalancing and data showed the U.S. economy shrank less than expected.
   TDThe Johannesburg Top-40 index of blue-chip stocks <.JTOPI> marched 5.53 percent higher to 18,995.36 points in its third straight session of gains.

The All-share index <.JALSH> gained 5.39 percent to 20,861.52 points, a day after it notched up its biggest one-day gain in more than a decade.

"The market just seems to go up in a straight line then down in a straight line," said Frank Forasari, a trader at Absa Securities. "The sentiment is flowing in from offshore and there's quite a bit of short-covering. But it's going up too much too fast -- I don't think it's sustainable."

The local bourse took its cue from higher metals prices and U.S. stocks, which rose as investors bet a spate of interest rate cuts by central banks around the world, including the U.S. Federal Reserve, would lessen the impact of global recession.

The rand <ZAR=D3> traded at 10.0 to the dollar at 1530 GMT, 2 percent weaker than its previous close in New York. It rallied to a two-week high of 9.4222 earlier as investors shifted back to risky assets, before sliding back to 10.11.

RATE CUTS

Traders said the currency had succumbed anew to the wild volatility that has plagued the market over the past two weeks.

"When the deleveraging stops for a couple of days we will rally, but when the Dow takes a knock we will fall," a Johannesburg trader said.

"We are still going to go into a major recession globally so that is not great for the rand, there is still risk to the topside (weaker)."

Government bonds added to Wednesday's big gains, although they lost some of their lustre as the rand reversed direction.

The yield on the benchmark 2015 <ZAR157=> bond was down 5.5 basis points at 9.055 percent after falling as low as 8.92 percent.

The 2036 <ZAR209=> yield dropped 3.5 basis points to 8.375 percent, while the two-year bond <ZAR153=> fell 17 basis points to 9.48 percent, cheered by data this week backing the case for interest rates cuts.

Statistics South Africa said annual producer inflation slowed to 16.0 percent in September from 19.1 percent in August. The data followed an easing in consumer inflation and credit growth.

On the bourse, mining stocks leapt as precious metal prices kept up their winning streak, with gold rising almost 3 percent to a one-week high on a softer dollar and rising oil prices.

That helped AngloGold Ashanti , which jumped 9.09 percent to 180 rand, shrugging off a third-quarter loss and moves by the company to review capital projects and sell assets due to the credit crisis.

Other mining shares also gained. Anglo American rose 7.47 percent higher to 237.50 rand while BHP Billiton pushed up 8.78 percent to 167.84 rand.

Gold Fields bounded 11.19 percent to 70.05 rand.

Shares in fashion retailer Foschini leapt 11.31 percent after it posted a smaller than expected fall in first-half profit and said sales rose.

Others retailers and banks also got a boost from the lower producer inflation. (Reporting by Rebecca Harrison and Gordon Bell, editing by Swaha Pattanaik)
   RFMARKETS-SAFRICA/CLOSE|LANGEN|ABN|M|E|RBN|D|C|GRO|MTL|SOF|SF|AFN|RNP|DNP|PCM   INimet : Metals/Mining   NSm11 : Equity Markets | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | e1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REsafr : South Africa | usa : United States | africaz : Africa | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | namz : North America | souafrz : Southern Africa   IPCSTX | GOL | MET | GDM | FRX | DBT | GVD | COM | METL | PREMTL | .J   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020081030e4au0020k  



 HDFACTBOX-Gulf Arab responses to past U.S.  interest rate  cuts   WC663 words   PD29 October 2008   ET16:57   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited   
   LPOct 29 (Reuters) - Gulf Arab oil producers, all but one of which peg their currencies to the dollar, tend to track U.S. interest rate changes to maintain the relative value of their currencies.

The U.S. Federal Reserve is expected to cut interest rates by 50 basis points on Wednesday to soothe a financial crisis that is quickly spreading to emerging markets, a Reuters poll showed this week [ID:nWBT010075].
   TDFollowing are details of how the six Gulf states have responded in the past to the eight Federal Reserve rate cuts since Sept. 2007 that took the U.S. benchmark fed funds rate to 1.5 percent.

SAUDI ARABIA

Benchmark rate: Repurchase rate at 4.75 since Oct. 12, when it was lowered for the first time in four years.

* The central bank, which declined to match the first 50 basis-point cut in Sept. 2007, slashed its reverse repurchase rate by 300 basis points to 2 percent between Nov. 1, 2007 and May 3 2008 to deter bets on an appreciation of the riyal.

The central bank lowered the reserve requirement of banks to 10 percent from 13 percent this month to give increased liquidity to banks. It had raised the reserve ratio to 13 percent from 7 percent in four moves between November and May, 2008 to prevent lower interest rates from fuelling inflation.

KUWAIT

Benchmark rate: Discount rate at 4.50 percent since Oct. 8, when it reduced the rate by 125 basis points to respond to a global credit crunch.

* Kuwait, the only Gulf Arab country to peg its currency to a basket rather than the dollar, had earlier changed its benchmark discount rate for the first time in 18 months on Jan. 23 with a 50 basis point cut to 5.75 percent.

Kuwait, whose basket gives it more flexibility on interest rates, has reduced its repurchase rate by 275 basis points to 2.5 percent since Sept. 2007.

UNITED ARAB EMIRATES

Benchmark rate: Overnight repurchase rate at 1.5 percent since Oct. 8.

* The central bank has slashed its repo rate by 325 basis points since setting it at 4.75 percent on Nov. 29, 2007, two days after the country revamped its monetary policy tools, replacing a daily sale of fixed-rate certificates of deposit with an auction.

The central bank has refrained from releasing the auction results.

QATAR

Benchmark rate: Lending facility rate at 5.5 percent since July 3, 2006, when it was raised 25 basis points.

* The central bank has cut its overnight deposit facility by 315 basis points since Sept. 18 to 2 percent. It has kept its lending facility and repurchase rates steady at 5.5 and 5.55 percent, respectively.

The Qatar central bank declined to match a 50-basis-point Fed cut this month.

Qatar raised the reserve requirement for banks to 4.75 percent from 2.75 percent of deposits between December 2007 and April to curb credit growth as it fights inflation.

BAHRAIN

Benchmark rate: The one-week deposit rate is the central bank's key policy rate.

* Bahrain, which held back from matching the first Fed cut in September 2007, has reduced its one-week deposit rate by 325 basis points to 1.75 percent since Nov. 1.

Bahrain cut its overnight secured and repo rates, which guide lending rates, to 4.75 percent from 5.25 percent on Oct. 9 -- its first change in the rates since November 2007. It also raised bank reserve requirements to 7 percent from 5 percent on Jan. 23.

OMAN

Oman sets interest rates at a weekly auction of certificates of deposit.

* In June, Oman raised banks' reserve requirement to 8 percent from 5 percent, its third increase in the reserve ratio in less than a year. (Compiled by Daliah Merzaban)
   RFGULF-INTERESTRATES/ (FACTBOX)|LANGEN|ABN|M|E|RBN|D|GFN|GBN|MD|RNP|DNP   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REbahrn : Bahrain | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | meastz : Middle East | oman : Oman | qatar : Qatar | uae : United Arab Emirates | usa : United States | asiaz : Asia | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | gulfstz : Persian Gulf Regions | namz : North America | wasiaz : Western Asia   IPCECI | MCE | PLCY | INT | CEN   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020081029e4at0024g  



 SEMarkets   HDDollar and Euro Rise Sharply on Yen   BYBy Dan Molinski    WC598 words   PD29 October 2008   SNThe Wall Street Journal (Online and Print)   SCWSJO   PGMarkets; C6   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2008 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
   LPThe dollar rose sharply against the yen Tuesday after U.S. stock markets shot higher and on speculation the Bank of Japan may cut interest rates at a Friday meeting.

As the Dow Jones Industrial Average rose by more than 800 points, the dollar jumped by nearly five yen, reaching an intraday high of 98.50 yen. The euro also took off against Japan's currency, reaching an intraday high of 124.69 yen.
   TDCurrency investors tend to become less risk-averse when U.S. stock markets rise, and so they sell the lower-yielding currencies such as the yen and buy higher-yielding currencies or other assets, which offer better returns.

"I think the key thing behind today's move is a recovery in risk appetite, reflected in the move higher in equities," said Adam Boyton, a currency strategist at Deutsche Bank in New York. "Despite the bounce, however, I think that fundamentally there's still a bear market in equities and the dollar against the yen will again print lower."

Tuesday afternoon in New York, the euro was at $1.2699, up from $1.2521 late Monday, while dollar was at 97.63 yen, up from 93.57, according to EBS. The euro was at 124.10 yen, up from 117.17 yen. The U.K. pound was at $1.5898, up from $1.5615.

The Nikkei newspaper reported in its Wednesday morning edition -- during New York trading hours Tuesday -- that the BOJ is considering a quarter-point interest-rate cut to help support a domestic economy battered by a strong yen and swooning share prices. The talk of a BOJ cut caused a drop in the yen as this would further reduce the already-small yield investors receive on yen holdings.

But the speculation of a BOJ rate cut seems to run contrary to comments made Monday by the deputy governor of the BOJ, who suggested the bank may leave rates on hold. Hirohide Yamaguchi told reporters that Japan's policy interest rate has been kept accommodative, suggesting that the central bank is unlikely to loosen monetary policy immediately.

The central bank's short-term rates are "extremely low given Japan's economic growth rates and the pace of price increases in the country," Mr. Yamaguchi said.

Currency markets on Wednesday will turn their attention to an interest-rate decision by the Federal Reserve. It is expected to cut rates by as much as a half percentage point, which would bring the Fed's benchmark rate down to 1%.

Analysts aren't sure how the dollar might react to a half-point rate cut by the Fed. On the one hand, it would tend to reduce returns on dollar-based assets, which could hurt the dollar. However, markets may also view it as the necessary medicine to get the U.S. economy growing again, which could send a signal of support for the greenback.

Meanwhile, the euro's exchange rate against the dollar gyrated sharply Tuesday. The common currency fell to a 2 year intraday low of $1.2329 early, but rebounded late in the New York session to close around $1.27.

The euro's late rally was due largely to the rebound in U.S. stock markets. The dollar has been gaining in recent weeks on the back of weaker stocks, which led investors to dump bets on oil, emerging markets and other riskier assets and put their funds back into greenbacks.

Write to Dan Molinski at Dan.Molinski@dowjones.com 
   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | e52 : Euro Zone/Currency | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | jap : Japan | asiaz : Asia | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America   IPDAdam Boyton | Hirohide Yamaguchi | Foreign Exchange   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument WSJO000020091007e4at00gnm  



 HDMeltdown 101: The Fed's two challenges: keeping inflation steady and employment high   BYBy ELLEN SIMON      CRAP Business Writer   WC980 words   PD29 October 2008   ET23:19   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPNEW YORK (AP) - The Federal Reserve System, the nation's central bank, was created in 1913 with two specific charges: promoting maximum sustainable employment and keeping inflation low.

To the extent that the nation's economy can be heated up or cooled down, the Fed is the institution with its fingers on the thermostat.
   TDTeams of economists parse reams of statistics to take the economy's temperature and try, using some powerful tools, to ensure the economy is not running so hot that prices soar and not running so cold that thousands of people lose their jobs.

Of course, there's plenty that's outside the Fed's control, from bank blowups to stock swings. But it still has more power over the economy than any other institution. That's why Fed actions make headlines even before they happen -- think of stocks gaining $1 trillion in total value Tuesday, rallying on the hope that the Fed would cut its short-term interest rate target. It did just that Wednesday, cutting the key rate to 1 percent.

Here are some questions and answers about the Fed and what it does.

Q: Why was the Federal Reserve created?

A: Just as the recent economic crisis has shaped national policy, so did the crises of the past. The legislation that created the modern Federal Reserve system came after a bank run in 1907 that followed a period of Wall Street speculation. (Sound familiar?)

Congress first passed an act providing for emergency currency infusions during a crisis. When the Fed was created in 1913, Congress hoped it would serve as a bulwark against future panics.

There had been two previous attempts to create a central bank in the U.S. during the 19th Century, but neither worked.

Q: What does the Federal Reserve do?

A: The Fed sets monetary policy, making decisions about the total amount of money in the economy -- also known as the money supply.

To loosen the money supply, the Fed can make loans itself, either to banks, foreign countries or businesses. That's something it's been doing increasingly over the last two months. Besides those loans, one of the Fed's primary ways of controlling the money supply is buying and selling Treasury securities -- U.S. government debt -- on the open market.

To loosen monetary policy when lending is tight and the economy is shrinking (as it is now), the Fed buys Treasury securities from banks. To pay the banks, it credits their reserves -- the cash banks keep on hand to cover loans they've made.

When those reserves rise, banks can, theoretically, make more loans. (Though there's no guarantee they'll do this -- like if they're too terrified to lend anything to anybody, as many seem to be now.)

To tighten monetary policy when the economy is growing and inflation is climbing, the Fed sells Treasuries to banks. The banks pay for them in cash, leaving them less money to lend. That should tighten lending, slowing the economy as loans get less common and more expensive, causing inflation to decline.

Another of the Fed's tools is its control over the Federal funds rate, the rate banks charge each other for overnight loans.

The Fed is currently cutting the rate, as it did Wednesday, to free up money for loans in the hopes the economy will grow. Lower interest rates should mean it's easier for businesses to get loans to buy new factory equipment or hire more workers and for individuals to borrow money to buy a home or a new car.

The last time the Fed tightened rates was during the economic expansion from 2004 to 2006. The Fed has been in loosening mode since September 2007.

Q: What's the difference between monetary policy and fiscal policy?

A: Monetary policy refers to the Fed's stance on the money supply and whether it's tightening or loosening access. Fiscal policy covers all the federal government's spending and taxation policies.

Q: Does the Fed set targets for unemployment and inflation?

A: The Fed does set unofficial targets for inflation; it does not set targets for employment.

The Fed targets a "nominal" level of inflation -- usually somewhere around 2 percent annually. When inflation gets much higher, as it did when it hit an annual rate of 5.6 percent in July, people struggle to buy necessities. When inflation gets much lower, as it did in 2003 when it hit 1 percent annually, the Fed acts to stimulate the economy.

Outside "supply shocks," such as last summer's soaring gas prices, inflation is something the Fed can influence. Creating a sustainable level of employment, on the other hand, is something no central bank can control.

Let's say the Fed were to keep interest rates low even as the economy was growing furiously. While that might cause employment to balloon, which would be a good thing, it would also cause inflation to spike, for a couple of reasons: Cheap loans make people and institutions more willing to spend money, which pushes prices up; and when nearly everyone has a job, employers are forced to raise wages to keep their workers.

Higher prices lead to spending cuts by individuals and businesses, which in turn lead to job cuts.

Even if the Fed could directly control the unemployment rate, there's no agreement on what the maximum sustainable level of employment should be, in part because the structure of the economy keeps changing: For better or for worse, the steel mill and auto factory jobs of the 1970s had become security guard and call center jobs by the 1990s. No amount of monetary policy can influence those broad economic shifts.
   RF7   ARTimage/jpeg: 2703c1db-9c83-4cba-80ca-82fa828ef12f      NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagpf1apon | sel----- | cata | 1310   IPDDomestic US | Meltdown 101 Federal Reserve | D944E4OO1   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020081029e4at002zx  



 HDGold, crude oil, agriculture futures surge after  Federal Reserve  slashes interest rates   BYBy STEVENSON JACOBS      CRAP Business Writer   WC385 words   PD29 October 2008   ET23:25   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPNEW YORK (AP) - Commodities prices surged Wednesday after the Federal Reserve slashed a key interest rate, undermining the dollar and boosting demand for hard assets as a hedge against inflation.

The Fed lowered its benchmark federal funds rate from 1.5 percent to 1 percent in an effort revive the ailing U.S. economy and loosen restrained credit markets. Lower interest rates can spur economic growth but tend to depress the dollar as investors go elsewhere for better returns. The 15-nation euro rose to $1.2852 in late Wednesday trading in New York from $1.2597 late Tuesday.
   TDGold prices jumped $13.50 to settle at $754 an ounce on the New York Mercantile Exchange after earlier rising as high as $759. Analysts said the dollar's drop spurred investors to buy the metal, long considered a hedge against inflation and weakness in the U.S. currency.

"With more interest rate cuts and more aggressive action by central banks, the indiscriminate selling of financial assets ... has subsided (and) not surprisingly, gold has moved sharply higher," Jeffrey Nichols, managing director of American Precious Metals Advisors.

However, gold trading has been volatile lately, and recent rallies often have been followed by sharp selloffs.

Other precious metals also rose. December silver soared $1.015 to settle at $8.79 an ounce on the Nymex, while December copper gained 22.95 cents to settle at $2.088 a pound.

In energy markets, oil prices rebounded from 17-month lows as stock markets rallied across the globe Wednesday.

Light, sweet crude for December delivery rose $4.77 to $67.50 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. The contract settled at $62.73 Tuesday, the lowest closing price since May 2007.

In other Nymex trading, gasoline futures rose 8 cents to settle at $1.53 a gallon, while heating oil gained 9 cents to settle at $2 a gallon.

Meanwhile, agriculture futures rose on the Chicago Board of Trade.

Wheat for December delivery settled up 47.25 cents at $5.6125 a bushel, while December corn rose 30 cents to settle at $4.2075 a bushel.

November soybeans gained 58.5 cents to settle at $9.3725 a bushel.
   RF5   NSm14 : Commodity Markets | m143 : Energy Markets | m15 : Derivative Securities | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mcroil : Crude Oil Markets | e1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagpf1apon | sel----- | catf | 1310   IPDFinancial/Business | Commodities Review | D944E7MO1   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020081029e4at00307  



 HDFed cuts key  interest rate  half-point to 1 percent   BYBy MARTIN CRUTSINGER      CRAP Economics Writer   WC875 words   PD29 October 2008   ET20:40   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPWASHINGTON (AP) - The Federal Reserve has slashed a key interest rate by half a percentage point as it seeks to revive an economy hit by a long list of maladies stemming from the most severe financial crisis in decades.

The central bank on Wednesday reduced its target for the federal funds rate, the interest banks charge on overnight loans, to 1 percent, a low last seen in 2003-2004. The funds rate has not been lower since 1958, when Dwight Eisenhower was president.
   TDThe cut marked the second half-point reduction in the funds rate this month. The Fed slashed the rate by that amount in a coordinated move with foreign central banks on Oct. 8.

In a brief statement explaining Wednesday's action, the Fed said that the "intensification of financial market turmoil is likely to exert additional restraint on spending, partly by further reducing the ability of households and business to obtain credit."

The central bank said that "downside risks to growth remain" holding out the promise of further rate cuts if needed. The rate-cut decision was unanimous.

Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke and his colleagues pledged that they would "monitor economic and financial developments carefully and will act as needed to promote sustainable economic growth and price stability."

Wall Street had staged its second biggest point surge ever on Tuesday with the Dow Jones industrial average climbing by 889 points in anticipation of the Fed's action. Trading was more subdued on Wednesday with the Dow actually slipping into negative territory immediately after the announcement, but surged up by about 200 points in late-afternoon trading.

Many analysts said they believe the Fed will not stop at 1 percent if officials see the need to cut rates further. Some are forecasting another half-point move at the Fed's last meeting of the year on Dec. 16.

But other economists said with rates already so low, the Fed may decide to hold at 1 percent, leaving some room for a further reduction if needed next year should the country's economic troubles intensify.

David Jones, chief economist at DMJ Advisors, said the Fed's rate cut will be followed over the next week by similar action in other major countries as they grow more concerned that the recession that began in the United States is spreading to their regions.

But he said a section of the Fed's statement where it listed all the efforts taken so far to battle the slowdown was a signal the central bank believes it has done enough for now.

Other economists disagreed, saying the Fed clearly lowered its worries about inflation while raising concerns about economic growth.

Sung Won Sohn, an economist at the Smith School of Business at California State University, said he believed the Fed will make the "momentous decision" to move the funds rate to zero if events in coming months show such an action is needed to battle the global credit crisis.

In its statement, the Fed indicated it had room to lower rates because the spreading economic weakness was lowering the risks that inflation would get out of control. Indeed, the weakness has caused dramatic declines in the price of oil and other commodities.

While many economists believe the U.S. has already fallen into a recession, they think the aggressive efforts by the Fed to cut rates and take other actions to unfreeze credit markets will keep the country from plunging into a prolonged and deep downturn.

The Fed's action was expected to be quickly followed by a reduction by commercial banks in their prime lending rate, the benchmark for millions of consumer and business loans, by a similar half-point.

The central bank also announced that it was lowering its discount rate, the interest it charges to make direct loans to banks, by a half-point to 1.25 percent. This rate has become increasingly important as the central bank has dramatically increased direct loans to banks in an effort to break the grip of the credit crisis.

Bernanke pledged in a speech earlier this month that the Fed "will not stand down until we have achieved our goals of repairing and reforming our financial system and restoring prosperity."

In addition to the rate cuts, the Fed has been moving to pump billions of dollars into the banking system to help unfreeze markets that seized up in dramatic fashion last month. The ensuing meltdown of financial markets caused the Bush administration to successfully lobby Congress to pass on Oct. 3 a $700 billion rescue package to make direct purchases of bank stock and buy up bad assets as a way of getting financial institutions to start lending again.

That money started flowing earlier this week with $125 billion going to nine of the nation's biggest banks. Other industries, including automakers and insurance companies, are in talks with the administration to get a share of the bailout funds.

And there is pressure from lawmakers to deploy some of the bailout resources to provide mortgage guarantees to encourage more banks to rework home loans to stem a record tide of foreclosures.
   RF7   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPCtagpf1wcat | sel----- | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | NA US Fed Interest Rates | D944BQD82   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020081029e4at000cf  



 HDShares of PBM companies slide following reduction in  Federal Reserve  interest rates   WC155 words   PD29 October 2008   ET20:09   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPNEW YORK (AP) - Shares of pharmacy benefits managers mostly sold off after a Federal Reserve interest rate cut.

The central bank cut its key interest rate by half a point, to 1 percent. The move makes it less costly for consumers and businesses to borrow money. But shares of PBMs, which manage prescription benefits for health plan sponsors and members, mostly gave up gains made earlier in the session.
   TDMedco Health Solutions Inc. fell 97 cents, or 2.4 percent, to $33.42.

Shares of Express Scripts Inc. lost $2, or 3.8 percent, to $50.86.

CVS Caremark Corp. declined $1.36, or 4.9 percent, to $26.46. CVS also concluded its tender offer for Longs Drugs Stores Corp., and plans to complete the buyout Thursday.

Shares of Catalyst Health Solutions Inc. wavered, and dipped 29 cents to $16.24.
   RF7   COexpscr : Express Scripts Inc | hltext : Catalyst Health Solutions, Inc. | medhth : Medco Health Solutions Inc | mville : CVS Caremark Corp.   INi643 : Pharmacies/Drug Stores | i951 : Health Care | iphmbn : Pharmacy Benefit Management | i257 : Pharmaceuticals | i64 : Retail/Wholesale | i654 : Specialty Stores | iphhss : Healthcare Support Services | iretail : Retail | i643 : Pharmacies/Drug Stores | i951 : Health Care | iphmbn : Pharmacy Benefit Management   NSc1522 : Share Price Movement/Disruptions | e1202 : Interest Rates | c15 : Performance | c152 : Earnings Projections | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter   REusny : New York | namz : North America | usa : United States | use : Northeast U.S.   IPCtagpf1finonl | sel----- | catf | 1333   IPDFinancial/Business | Pharmacy benefits managers Fed Snap | D944BBEG0   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020081029e4at002iy  



 SEAWSJ   HDU.S. stocks up modestly ahead of word on rates; Rise in crude prices boosts oil companies; Europe indexes gain   BYBy Peter A. McKay    CRThe Wall Street Journal Asia   WC472 words   PD30 October 2008   SNThe Wall Street Journal (Online and Print)   SCWSJO   PGAWSJ   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2008 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
   LPU.S. stocks steadied as investors anticipated the latest interest-rate decision from the Federal Reserve, which is running out of monetary ammunition to spur the economy.

As often happens when a meeting of the Fed's rate committee is due to end, many market participants were on the sidelines, awaiting word from the central bank in early afternoon on the U.S. East Coast.
   TDThe Dow Jones Industrial Average, which soared 889.35 points on Tuesday, was up 79.49 points, or 0.9%, at 9144.61 early afternoon in New York. A rebound in crude-oil prices boosted shares in Chevron and Exxon Mobil.

At midday in New York, the price of oil was up $5.07 per barrel, or 8.1%, at $67.80. Chevron was up 2.4% and Exxon Mobil gained 1.2%.

Other stock measures seesawed between gains and losses Wednesday morning. The S&P 500 was up 6.39 points, or 0.7%, at 946.90 in early afternoon, while the technology-oriented Nasdaq Composite Index was up 17.6 points, or 1.1%, at 1667.07.

If the Fed cuts its key rate target by half a percentage point to 1%, as most traders expect, that would lower borrowing costs throughout the U.S. economy.

But with some market participants worred that America and its major trading partners are due for a prolonged recession in the months ahead, there is also some risk that the closer the Fed's target for rates gets to zero, the less leeway it has to respond to future economic trouble.

Some observers thought the Fed could deliver an even deeper cut than currently expected. Goldman Sachs said in a research note that a cut of three-quarters of a percentage point is a slight possibility. But UBS analysts noted the risks of the Fed bringing rates under 1%.

"Going below that has limited economic impact, and may damage the functioning of money markets," the UBS economists said.

Others warned that the market's recent gains could be short-lived if the Fed doesn't deliver at least a half-point reduction.

European Markets

Hopes for interest-rate cuts both in the U.S. and elsewhere boosted shares in Europe. Tuesday's U.S. rally aided the market as well.

The pan-European Dow Jones Stoxx 600 index climbed 7.2% to 213.72. The U.K.'s FTSE 100 gained 8.1% to 4242.54, while the French CAC-40 index rose 9.2% to 3402.57. Germany's DAX slipped 0.3% to 4808.69.

Write to Peter A. McKay at peter.mckay@wsj.com 
   NSc1522 : Share Price Movement/Disruptions | e1202 : Interest Rates | m11 : Equity Markets | mcrntg : Crude Oil/Natural Gas Product Markets | mcroil : Crude Oil Markets | c15 : Performance | c152 : Earnings Projections | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m14 : Commodity Markets | m143 : Energy Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPDAWSJ   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument WSJO000020091008e4au001u8  



 HDMONEY MARKETS-Asia rates soften after Fed sets swap lines   BYBy Umesh Desai      WC587 words   PD30 October 2008   ET06:58   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited   
   LPHONG KONG, Oct 30 (Reuters) - The cost of borrowing dollars in Asia fell on Thursday after the U.S. Federal Reserve created currency swap lines to ease dollar funding tightness around the world and also announced a widely expected interest rate cut.

The U.S. central bank's moves come amid a wave of supportive announcements from monetary authorities around the world as financial markets grapple to unlock credit availability.
   TDTaiwan and Hong Kong followed the Fed with rate cuts within hours, while China cut interest rates on Wednesday.

The Fed also announced four new currency swap lines with Brazil, Mexico, South Korea and Singapore worth $30 billion each to help ease dollar funding shortages that have crippled money markets around the globe.

"The swap lines have done the trick," said Suresh Ramanathan, strategist with CIMB Investment Bank in Kuala Lumpur but he expects most of the easing to take place in shorter maturities.

"The upside on term money will still be there -- we are not going to see it going back to its pre-crisis levels."

Interbank overnight dollar deposits were quoted at 0.75-1.0 percent in Hong Kong, 1.0-1.5 percent in Seoul and 0.75-1.25 percent in Singapore.

On Wednesday, overnight dollar deposits were quoted at 0.9-1.1 percent in Hong Kong, 1.0-1.5 percent in Seoul and 1-2 percent in Singapore. Overnight dollar rates in Asia have fallen from as high as 10 percent last month.

"I expect the yield curve to become steeper because the short-term rates will drop faster than term-money rates -- two months or more," said a Hong Kong-based trader.

But he added longer-term money would remain relatively costlier: "Year-end demand will keep term money rates higher."

Three-month dollar deposits were quoted at 2.75-3.25 percent in Hong Kong, 3-3.5 percent in Seoul and 3.25-3.75 percent in Singapore, traders said.

This compares with Wednesday's rates of 3.5-4.0 percent in Hong Kong, 3.8 percent in Seoul and 3.5-4.5 percent in Singapore, traders said.

The central bank moves also helped local rates ease in Hong Kong, but South Korean won interbank rates were steady to marginally higher.

The one-month Hong Kong interbank offered rate (Hibor) was fixed at 2.44786 percent on Thursday morning, down from 2.88714 percent on Wednesday and its lowest level since Sept. 17.

Analysts said the drop in interbank rates might make Hong Kong banks more likely to cut their prime lending rates. They were due to announce interest rate decisions later on Thursday.

Hong Kong officially tracks U.S. interest rate moves because its currency is pegged to the U.S. dollar but local banks have some leeway to lag U.S. moves.

Short-term rates in the South Korean won interbank market remained unchanged but term money for funds over one month were marginally higher.

The one-week rate was steady at 4.36 percent but the 2-month rate was 2 bps higher at 5.39 percent. Traders said year-end caution and steepening of the local bond yield curve were driving this trend in the local money market rates.

(Additional reporting by Cheon Jong-Woo in Seoul and Kevin Yao in Singapore) (Editing by Neil Fullick)
   RFASIA-MONEY (MONEY MARKETS)|LANGEN|ABX|BNX|FUN   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REskorea : South Korea | usa : United States | hkong : Hong Kong | asiaz : Asia | china : China | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America   IPCMMT/   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020081030e4au000gq  



 HDRPT-TREASURIES-Bonds steady after Fed cuts rates, as expected   WC455 words   PD29 October 2008   ET13:40   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited   
   LP(Repeats to additional subscribers with no changes to text)

*Prices little changed as Fed cut meets expectations
   TD*Fed lowered key rate to 1 pct, lowest since June '04

*Bonds briefly pare gains after durables goods data (Adds strategist comment, updates prices, changes byline)

By Chris Reese

NEW YORK, Oct 29 (Reuters) - U.S. Treasury debt prices were little changed on Wednesday after the Federal Reserve cut its interest rate target by 50 basis points, which was largely what investors had expected.

The Fed left the door open for further interest rate cuts, even though the latest move took the target rate for overnight lending between banks down to 1 percent, the lowest since June 2004, as the central bank continued scrambling to stifle a financial crisis and sharp economic downturn.

"This was pretty much as expected, so there was very little market reaction," said Kevin Logan, senior U.S. economist at Dresdner Kleinwort in New York.

Benchmark 10-year Treasury notes <US10YT=RR>_traded flat in price for a yield of 3.85 percent, while 2-year notes <US2YT=RR> traded 3/32 lower in price for a yield of 1.55 percent from 1.59 percent late on Tuesday.

Most investors had expected the Fed to cut the key interest rate by half a percentage point on Wednesday. The Fed has slashed the rate from 5.25 percent in nine steps over the past 13 months, including an emergency 50 basis point cut earlier this month.

"Basically, the Fed validated market expectations," said John Praveen, chief investment strategist at Prudential International Investments Advisers in Newark, New Jersey.

Bond trade was choppy through the day, with the safety bid for government debt ebbing and flowing in the opposite direction to fickle stocks.

Treasury debt prices pared gains fleetingly early on Wednesday after a stronger-than-expected durable goods orders report offered a dim sign that economic weakness might not be as severe as some analysts had anticipated.

Also on the radar was a plunge in the U.S. dollar on Wednesday on a modest easing of risk aversion, with the dollar index marking its biggest daily drop since 1985, after charting spectacular gains in recent weeks.

Traders also watched closely crude oil's rebound above $68 per barrel.

The 5-year Treasury note <US5YT=RR> traded 3/32 higher in price for a yield of 2.72 percent from 2.74 percent, while the 30-year bond <US30YT=RR> traded 17/32 lower for a yield of 4.23 percent from 4.20 percent. (Additional reporting by Herbert Lash; Editing by Leslie Adler)
   RFMARKETS-BONDS (UPDATE 5)|LANGEN|DA|FN|NW|SW   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | ntop : Dow Jones/Reuters Top Wire News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCDBT | GVD | MUNI | INT | MCE | STIR | MMT | NEWS | INVS | FIN | FUND | BSVC | FINS | US/ | US/N | XXSNPT | EMBG:DBT | embargokeyE1R1:1   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020081029e4at0019t  



 HDT-bill demand rises, interbank lending rates slip   BYBy MADLEN READ      CRAP Business Writer   WC892 words   PD29 October 2008   ET23:04   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPNEW YORK (AP) - Investors again sought the security of Treasury bills Wednesday, uncertain that the Federal Reserve's interest rate cut will boost the flagging economy anytime soon.

The Fed said, as expected, that it was lowering the fed funds rate half a point to 1 percent. Many rates on consumer and business debt, such as credit cards, are affected by the fed funds rate, and are likely to dip in tandem.
   TDThe central bank in its accompanying statement pointed to declining consumer spending and pledged to "act as needed" to promote economic growth -- suggesting to many investors that policy makers are leaving the door open for another cut.

But "one must question exactly how useful any additional rate cuts would be -- outside of the psychological significance," wrote RBS Greenwich Capital analyst David Ader in a note.

The three-month T-bill, considered one of the safest assets around, saw its yield slip to 0.58 percent from 0.74 percent late Tuesday. A drop in yield indicates an uptick in demand. The discount rate was also at 0.58 percent.

Longer-term Treasurys fell. The 2-year note fell 3/32 to 99 29/32 and yielded 1.55 percent, down from 1.58 percent late Tuesday. The 10-year note fell 2/32 at 101 5/32 and yielded 3.86 percent, up from 3.84 percent. The 30-year bond slipped 21/32 to 104 11/32 and yielded 4.24 percent, up from 4.20 percent.

The tightness in the credit markets has been improving modestly since the freeze-up following the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and the government takeover of American International Group Inc.

One positive signal is that bank-to-bank lending rates have been falling.

The three-month dollar London Interbank Offered Rate, or Libor, fell to 3.42 percent from 3.47 percent Monday. Libor is a key interbank lending rate to which many consumer loans -- including adjustable-rate mortgages -- are linked. About two weeks ago, three-month dollar Libor was as high as 4.82 percent.

In another good sign, the Fed's program to buy three-month commercial paper is allowing companies to raise more cash through that market. Commercial paper is the short-term debt that companies sell to finance their day-to-day operations, such as maintaining inventories and payrolls.

On Tuesday, total volumes for commercial paper with maturities over 81 days was at $41.6 billion. That's down from $67.1 billion Monday, the day the Fed started its program, but still well above daily volumes last week that ranged from $3.6 billion and $7.8 billion.

But there's been little relief for companies that issue lower-tier commercial paper -- the type known as A2-P2 paper that the Fed has not agreed to buy. As of Tuesday, the market rate on first-tier commercial paper with a 90-day maturity issued by nonfinancial companies was 2.18 percent. For similar second-tier paper, the rate was 6.69 percent.

Sen. Bob Corker, a Republican, said to bankers in Nashville Wednesday "we're working right now with Treasury" and that "we're putting pressure on (Federal Reserve Chairman Ben) Bernanke to take A2-P2 paper if he's going to take A1-P1 paper." That's because automakers Nissan and Volkswagen sell A2-P2, or lower-quality, commercial paper to finance their operations, Corker said. Nissan has a plant in Tennessee, and Volkswagen is planning to build one there.

Spokespeople for the New York Federal Reserve and the Treasury declined to comment.

Meanwhile, issuance of long-term corporate debt is at a standstill for companies lacking high credit ratings. Rates on corporate debt, particularly for non-investment grade bonds, have kept rising despite the easing in interbank lending rates.

A big reason for the freeze is investors' fear of defaults. Standard & Poor's said 28 companies -- 24 of which were based in the United States -- defaulted in the third quarter of the year. That is the highest number since the third quarter of 2003. The amount of debt affected was $186 billion, well above the $8.15 billion of debt affected by defaults in all of 2007.

Large and small companies alike are girding for an environment where credit will be hard to come by, or at least cost-prohibitive.

On Wednesday, media company Landmark Communications said it is suspending the planned sale of most of its properties because buyers are having trouble getting loans amid the credit crisis.

Only 12 companies launched initial public offerings in the third quarter, the lowest number since the second quarter of 2003, due to the volatile credit and equity markets, according to PricewaterhouseCoopers' quarterly U.S. IPO report.

The already slumping auto industry has been suffering particularly hard as consumers have more trouble getting auto loans and dealers have problems financing their inventories.

Automotive supplier Wabco Holdings Inc. on Wednesday reduced its 2008 profit forecast, suspended stock buybacks and said it would cut 1,000 jobs. Tenneco Inc., which makes emission and ride control systems for automobiles, said it plans to cut 1,100 jobs and close five facilities.

------

Associated Press Writer Erik Schelzig in Nashville, Tennessee, contributed to this report.
   RF5   COrbsct : Royal Bank of Scotland Group PLC   INi814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSm12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | e1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPCtagpf1wcat | sel9---- | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | NA US Credit Markets | D944DTPG0   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020081029e4at002ix  



 HDShares of national banks fall after  Federal Reserve  cuts key  interest rate  to 1 percent   BYBy SARA LEPRO      CRAP Business Writer   WC474 words   PD29 October 2008   ET22:26   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPNEW YORK (AP) - Shares of national banks tumbled on Wednesday after the Federal Reserve cut its rate on the interest banks charge on overnight loans by a half point to 1 percent.

After being up modestly earlier in the day, major bank stocks dropped significantly after the decision was announced in mid-afternoon, then rallied a bit before ending the day in the red.
   TDThe broader market also seesawed -- which is typical immediately following a Fed rate move -- and ended the day mixed. But the back-and-forth trading came a day after an 889-point surge in the Dow Jones industrials, its second-largest daily point gain. It seemed some investors were cashing in profits, while others may have been discouraged by a bleak outlook that accompanied the rate cut.

The central bank spelled out a weakening of economic conditions around the world, citing first a drop in spending by American consumers.

"The concern is over how pervasive this slowdown will be because it clearly is global in nature," said John Wilson, chief technical strategist at Morgan Keegan.

The rate cut, which was highly anticipated, sends the target for the federal funds rate to its lowest level since 2003-2004.

The move, which makes borrowing cheaper, is among broad-sweeping efforts by the government to unfreeze the credit markets. Lending among banks has all but evaporated in the past couple months amid rising fear of future losses on potential loans.

By lowering the fed funds rate, the Federal Reserve is making it almost impossible for banks not to make money from lending, said Bernie McGinn, chief executive of McGinn Investment Management.

The government is also investing $125 billion in nine large financial institutions, and an additional $125 billion is being offered to smaller, regional banks.

"Right now, the frustration is we don't see a lot of the liquidity being put to work," Wilson said. "Banks are really going to have to do something. They've been given this capital and they are expected to use it. It's got to be put to work."

"People are just impatient," echoed McGinn. "This stuff just doesn't happen in a day. It works its way through the system," he said, referring to the government's efforts.

JPMorgan Chase & Co. shares fell $1.89, or 5 percent, to end regular trading at $35.71.

Citigroup Inc. lost 56 cents, or 4.2 percent, to $12.91.

Wells Fargo & Co. dropped $2.35, or 6.8 percent, to $32.11.

Bank of America Corp. shed 70 cents, or 3 percent, to $22.32.

Wachovia Corp., which is being bought by Wells Fargo, dove 50 cents, or 7.7 percent, to $5.97.
   RF7   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | m11 : Equity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagpf1finonl | sel----- | catf | 1333   IPDFinancial/Business | National Banks Post Fed Sector Snap | D944DBOG0   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020081029e4at002jb  



 HDBuck slides as  Federal Reserve  cuts rate; Canadian dollar has biggest jump in 30 years   BYBy TALI ARBEL      CRAP Business Writer   WC573 words   PD29 October 2008   ET22:06   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPNEW YORK (AP) - The dollar fell against the other major currencies Wednesday as the Federal Reserve cut its benchmark interest rate to 1 percent, as expected, with the Canadian dollar posting its biggest one-day jump in nearly 30 years.

The 15-nation euro rose to $1.2852 in late Wednesday trading in New York from $1.2597 late Tuesday.
   TDThe British pound, meanwhile, which hit a six-year low against the dollar last Friday at $1.5264, was up to $1.6314 in late trading Wednesday from $1.5775 late Tuesday.

The pound, in the past two days, has gained 6.86 cents.

The Federal Reserve's policy-making committee, in a unanimous decision, cut the federal funds rate, the interest banks require for overnight loans, to 1 percent in an effort to invigorate the U.S. economy by getting more credit to businesses and consumers.

The central bank said in its statement that "downside risks to growth remain." While foreseeing lessening inflation, it said it would "act as needed to promote sustainable economic growth."

But the Dow Jones industrials dropped in late trading, ending down the Dow ended down 74.16, or 0.82 percent, at 8,990.96. The market's slip is "a rejection of the notion that the Fed rate cut really had any meaningful impact on market sentiment," said Michael Woolfolk, senior currency strategist at Bank of New York Mellon Corp. in New York. "The Fed has now significantly reduced its capabilities of reducing rates further."

Further cuts would leave interest rates at 50-year lows.

While rate cuts can prompt growth, they also can weigh down on a currency as investors transfer funds where they can earn higher returns. The Bank of England and the European Central Bank both seem geared to cut rates, at 4.5 percent and 3.75 percent respectively.

Meanwhile, a strong rally in oil prices, which settled up $4.77 to $67.50 on the Nymex, helped fuel the Canadian currency.

Adam Boyton, currency analyst at Deutsche Bank in New York, said the Canadian dollar had its largest one-day jump since 1980, as far back as his records go.

The dollar sank to 1.2262 Canadian dollars from 1.2914 late Tuesday -- falling by more than 6.5 Canadian cents -- as oil prices rose nearly 8 percent.

Canada, an oil exporter, benefits from pricier oil.

But Boyton and Woolfolk are still bullish on the dollar, with Boyton terming the week's moves "a bit of a correction."

Extreme volatiliy in stock markets and currency trading means retail and institutional investors have been sidelined, said Woolfolk, meaning trading is heavily controlled by speculative players. Volatility and the extreme anxiety among investors led them to pull their money home from overseas, boosting the dollar. That repatriation, said Woolfolk, will probably have run its course by the end of this year, but the dollar's outlook remains stable.

"The U.S. remains the only country, from a policy position, that supports a strong currency," Woolfolk said.

In other New York trading, the dollar fell to 1.1367 Swiss francs from 1.1601 francs and slipped to 97.14 Japanese yen from 97.68.

(This version CORRECTS crude oil close, pct change of oil price.)
   RF7   ARTimage/jpeg: 2d7124b6-64c6-4eb7-9e78-af305805ea14      NSe1202 : Interest Rates | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REcana : Canada | usa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagpf1finonl | sel----- | catf | 1333   IPDFinancial/Business | Dollar | D944D2H83   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020081029e4at002r7  



 HDU.S. copper up, ends strong after Fed cuts rates   WC541 words   PD29 October 2008   ET15:11   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited   
   LPNEW YORK, Oct 29 (Reuters) - U.S. copper futures held strong gains into the close on Wednesday after the Federal Reserve cut another half point from key U.S. interest rates, lowering them to 1 percent.

But copper prices moved off their eight-day peak when the dollar trimmed early losses following the Fed's rate decision, traders said.
   TDFor the latest detailed report, click on [MET/L]

* Copper for December delivery <HGZ8> finished 22.95 cents, or 12.35 percent, higher at $2.0880 a lb on the New York Mercantile Exchange's COMEX division.

* The range ran from $1.8495 to $2.1150 -- its highest level since Oct. 21.

* After tumbling to $1.6265 on Monday, the lowest since September 2005 for a benchmark contract, the December copper contract has risen nearly 50 cents.

* COMEX estimated final futures volume at a hefty 20,083 lots, up from 16,615 lots traded on Tuesday.

* Copper stayed near its eight-day high after the Federal Reserve's policy setting committee cut the benchmark Fed funds rate by 1/2 point to 1.25 percent. [nTRT000340]

* Though the Fed's statement said the committee lowered rates to address slower economic activity, analysts said the rate cut might loosen credit, helping restore production and demand for copper and other base metals.

* Copper prices should keep taking their cue from equity prices and the dollar's direction, traders said.

* The U.S. dollar pared losses against the euro after the Fed took half-a-percentage point off the key overnight interest rate. [USD/]

* U.S. stock indexes saw some selling shortly after after the Fed slashed interest rates, then rallied sharply as investors gained confidence in the steps taken by the Fed and the U.S. Treasury. [.N]

* "There may be a knee jerk move lower as some investors were hoping for a 75 basis point rate cut. But once the dust settles, markets should continue to find a bottom and then move higher as globally liquidity floods the markets," said Chris Jarvis, senior analyst, Caprock Risk Management. [nN29491806]

* Copper was buoyed by an unexpected 0.8 percent jump in durable goods orders for September, led by surging demand for defense goods and transportation equipment - Commerce Department. [ID:nN28405560]

* Chile state copper commission Cochilco said Wednesday it saw copper output this year at 5.45 million tonnes, rising to 5.8 million tonnes in 2009. It said lower world prices would not affect production levels. [ID:nN29465073]

* Copper consumption in China may be flat next year as global financial turmoil and a weak domestic property market erode demand for Chinese products, a top executive at Jiangxi Copper Company said. [ID:nSP358502]

* London Metal Exchange copper warehouse stocks increased by 1,750 tonnes to 217,300 tonnes on Wednesday. COMEX copper stocks stood even at 9,892 short tons as of Tuesday.

* LME copper for three month delivery <MCU3=LX> surged to $4,651 a tonne by Wednesday's close, up from Tuesday's $4,130. (Reporting by Carole Vaporean; Editing by David Gregorio)
   RFMARKETS-COPPER/COMEX (UPDATE 1)|LANGEN|ABN|C|MTL|GRO|SOF|E|U|RBN|RNP|DNP|PCO|PCM   INimet : Metals/Mining   NSm15 : Derivative Securities | e1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REdevgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | mex : Mexico | peru : Peru | usa : United States | camz : Central America | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | lamz : Latin America | namz : North America | samz : South America   IPCMET | DRV | MIN | GOL | MEMI | BMAT | MINE | MTAL | STL | COP/X   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020081029e4at001xo  



 HDUS CORP BONDS-Prices rise after Fed cuts interest rates   WC671 words   PD29 October 2008   ET21:04   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited   
   LPNEW YORK, Oct 28 (Reuters) - U.S. corporate bond prices rose on Wednesday and debt protection costs fell, after the Federal Reserve cut a key interest rate in its latest attempt to kick-start a battered economy.

"There's certainly a better bid to the corporate market," said one trader. We'll see what happens if things settle down and supply comes."
   TDThe main U.S. credit derivative index was trading at 207 basis points, down from 212.50 points late Tuesday, according to Markit Intraday.

The index widened immediately after the Federal Reserve cut its fed funds rate to 1 percent before retracing to trade at pre-announcement levels.

"Regional banks are better ... the market has a better feel, especially with Treasuries backing off, so I would say things are probably five (basis points) tighter, maybe even 10 tighter depending on what name it is," said the trader.

Market participants were expecting the Fed to cut rates for the ninth time in 13 months as policymakers struggle to prevent a widening credit crisis from tipping the United States into a deep and prolonged recession.

China and Norway also lowered rates today, while Japan, the European Central Bank and the Bank of England are expected to ease their rates in the coming days.

Signs of the continued tightness in the corporate borrowing markets were evident Wednesday as Coca-Cola Enterprises sold $1 billion in five-year notes, after delaying the issue on Tuesday.

The delay came after Standard & Poor's revised its outlook on the company and on parent Coca-Cola to negative just after the deal was announced, indicating their ratings may be cut over the next one to two years.

The notes were priced at 99.897 to yield 468 basis points over U.S. Treasuries. That was 5.5 basis points more than the original indicated spread of 462.5 basis points.

Coca-Cola Enterprises last tapped the capital markets in July, with a $300 million five-year note offer that priced at a far lower spread of 168 basis points over Treasuries. Those notes are currently trading at about 350 basis points over Treasuries, according to MarketAxess.

Auto bonds performed well after General Motors financial arm GMAC said it has been approved to use the government commercial paper funding facility created this month.

A report late Tuesday said GMAC is seeking to become a bank holding company in order to tap the government's $700 billion financial rescue plan.

That news helped offset the company's report of an 11 percent decline in third-quarter global auto sales. GM also continued to push ahead with merger talks with Chrysler. A separate report said GM had also reached out to rival Toyota Motor Corp for assistance to support its turnaround. See [ID:nN29172673].

GM's 8.375 percent bonds due July, 2033 rose a full 8 cents to 37 cents on the dollar, while yield spreads over Treasuries tightened by 646 basis points, according to MarketAxess.

Elsewhere, the cost of insuring debt issued by hospital operator Universal Health Services rose sharply after the company missed quarterly earnings estimates as higher costs and slower growth at its acute-care hospitals weighed.

Five-year credit default swaps on the company rose to 265 basis points, or $265,000 annually to insure $10 million of debt for five years, up from 232 basis points late Tuesday.

Debt protection costs on health insurer Aetna were also sharply higher following its third-quarter earnings slump, which was mainly due to investment losses stemming from the credit crisis.

Five-year credit default swaps on Aetna's debt were trading at about 129 basis points, up from 104 late Tuesday.

Also in the sector, Cigna [CIOSF.UL] credit default swaps rose to 145 basis points from about 114 basis points. (Reporting by Ciara Linnane and Dena Aubin; Editing by James Dalgleish)
   RFMARKETS-USCORPBONDS|LANGEN|Table|ABN|M|E|RBN|U|D   NSm12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m15 : Derivative Securities | e1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCUSC | DBT | IGD | HYD | CDV | HMAC | MAC | READ | PUB | ENT | CORPD | INDG | INDS | CPX | USC/ | EMBG:DBT | embargokeyE1   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020081101e4at000gt  



 HDTOPWRAP 7-China cuts rates, Fed and others set to follow   WC886 words   PD29 October 2008   ET14:15   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited   
   LP* China eases rates 0.27 pct point, Norway cuts 1/2 point

* Fed set to cut by at least 1/2 point
   TD* Bank of Japan considering rate cut - source

* IMF, EU agree $25.1 bln rescue package for Hungary

* European shares up 5 pct, Wall St set for modest rise (For full crisis coverage, double click on nCRISIS]) (Adds comment from former NBER head, EU's Barroso)

By Burton Frierson and Elizabeth Piper

NEW YORK/LONDON, Oct 29 (Reuters) - China cut its interest rate for the third time in six weeks on Wednesday, and central banks in the United States, Japan and Europe are expected to follow by the end of next week to bolster economies facing recession.

Authorities fear the worst financial crisis in 80 years will usher in a long recession and are looking to rate reductions and other measures to soften the blow.

China increasingly appears to be the world's last center of growth and has said it would not fall victim to the crisis. It cut its interest rate to 6.66 percent from 6.93.

The Federal Reserve is widely expected to cut U.S. rates on Wednesday by at least half a point to 1 percent, the lowest level since June 2004.

Norway's central bank cut rates by 50 basis points to 4.75 percent, ending more than three years of tightening.

The global rate cut talk buoyed stock markets but analysts said any recovery would be short-lived given that a sharp economic downturn was already in progress.

"Enjoy the party while you can," said David Buik, market commentator at Cantor Index in London.

Japan's Nikkei index ended up 7.7 percent and European shares climbed 5 percent, with sentiment boosted by China's rate cut. U.S. shares were expected to climb modestly, following the second-biggest ever rise a day earlier.

The United States has entered a recession which will last longer and do more damage than any other since World War Two, the former head of the U.S. National Bureau of Economic Research, Martin Feldstein, was quoted as saying.

JAPAN MAY CUT

The Bank of Japan will consider cutting rates at a policy meeting on Friday but will watch market conditions before deciding, a source with knowledge of the matter told Reuters.

A cut by the world's second-biggest economy would "send a message to the world that Japan is cooperating with other nations in tackling the financial crisis," said Koichi Haji, chief economist at NLI Research Institute in Tokyo.

The European Central Bank and the Bank of England are expected to ease policy at their regular meetings next week.

The ECB is expected to cut a half point off rates to 3.25 percent, their lowest in two years, according to a Reuters poll.

An executive board member of the ECB said growth in the euro zone would be lower than expected.

"Confidence will not return until we stop to think about the measures which have been taken and we can see financial institutions resuming their normal activity," Jose Manuel Gonzalez Paramo said in a newspaper interview.

BAIL OUTS

Governments have pledged about $4 trillion to support banks and restart money markets to try to stem the crisis set off by the bursting of a bubble in the U.S. housing market.

As credit lines have dried up, a growing number of governments have had to look for help from global lenders.

The IMF, European Union and World Bank agreed to a $25.1 billion economic rescue package for Hungary.

Ukraine, which has been offered $16.5 billion by the IMF, was told to pass legislation through its fragmented parliament or risk no loan, higher inflation and a default on its debts.

Central bank chairman Volodymyr Stelmakh said failure to secure the loan would lead to "double-digit inflation ... as well as moral discredit and declaring default."

Ukraine's hryvnia currency sank to historic low of 7.05-7.20 to the dollar.

In neighboring Belarus, run largely along command-economy lines, the deputy central bank head said the country was optimistic about agreeing a $2 billion IMF loan, and was ready to liberalize its economic policies.

Pakistan's central bank governor said it was in no danger of defaulting on its debt but was considering whether to expand on technical help with the Fund.

South Korea denied speculation it was seeking IMF support but said it would ease won liquidity requirements on banks to help bring down their funding costs.

The Fund has agreed a $2.1 billion loan to Iceland, where the financial system has all but collapsed.

IMF officials have said that the fund may need additional resources in a prolonged crisis and European Commission President Jose Manuel Barroso said on Wednesday China and the Gulf countries could do more to help the Fund support countries hit by the financial crisis.

The European Union's executive also said the bloc's crisis funding facility of 12 billion euros ($15.3 billion) might not be enough and should be increased. (Reporting by Reuters bureaus worldwide; Editing by Tom Hals)
   RFFINANCIAL/ (TOPWRAP 7, PIX)|LANGEN|ABX|BNX|AFA|CSA|LBY|RWSA|RWS|REULB|GNS|SXNA   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News   REeecz : European Union Countries | jap : Japan | usa : United States | china : China | asiaz : Asia | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | eurz : Europe | namz : North America   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020081029e4at001rx  



 HDChinese yields fall after  interest rate  cut   WC840 words   PD30 October 2008   ET03:02   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited   
   LP(Adds afternoon market moves, analysis)

SHANGHAI, Oct 30 (Reuters) - China's bill and bond yields fell across the curve on Thursday after the central bank cut interest rates for the third time in six weeks.
   TDAfter the market closed on Wednesday, the Chinese central bank announced a 0.27 percentage point cut in both the benchmark rate for one-year loans by commercial banks, to 6.66 percent, and the rate on one-year certificates of deposit, to 3.60 percent, from 3.87 percent, starting from Thursday. [ID:nPEK197058]

The move was aimed at reviving the slowing economy but the timing, which coincided with a rate cut by the U.S. Federal Reserve, suggested the central bank may have wanted to take part in further coordinated global easing.

"The central bank may cut rates frequently in coming months, as it may want to keep the U.S.-Chinese interest rate gap stable if the U.S. cuts again," said a trader at an Asian bank in Shanghai.

"So even though it didn't cut reserve ratios this time, the market thinks it might do so in coming months according to its own plan."

Traders believe buying will be focused at the short end of the curve in coming months, since long-term yields had fallen faster than short-term yields in recent months and because of expectations of a boost of supply in the long end of the curve in 2009 to fund fiscal stimulus.

Economists at the State Information Centre, a key government think tank, said on Thursday that China's economy was likely to expand around 9 percent in 2009, despite the global credit crisis, if Beijing introduces a raft of stimulative policies to support growth. [ID:nPEK202498]

The centre, which expects gross domestic product to expand 9.8 percent this year, recommended policies including issuance of 200 billion yuan in long-term construction bonds.

The indicative five-year government bond yield <CN5YTFIX=R> fell to an 18-month low of 2.9064 percent bid on Thursday from 2.9680 percent on Wednesday, according to Reuters Reference Rates.

Yields on Chinese financial bonds issued by policy banks were quoted about 20 basis points lower early on Thursday in a knee-jerk response to the easing, although they rebounded considerably when trading picked up in earnest.

The yield on the 10-year financial bank bond <CN10YSFIX=R> fell to a 19-month low of 3.6685 percent from 3.7367 percent.

LOW AUCTION YIELD

In the money market, bill yields fell after the rate cut and after the central bank auctioned three-month bills in its regular open market operation at a yield of 2.8275 percent, below the forecast of about 2.90 percent and last week's 3.0310 percent.

In response, the 90-day central bank bill yield <CN3MNFIX=R> in the secondary market fell to 3.0023 percent bid from 2.9342 percent.

Traders believe the decision to issue one-year bills via bi-weekly sales instead of weekly sales suggests the central bank wants to cut its reliance on longer-term bills to drain funds, in order to gain flexibility in adjusting money market liquidity.

"The central bank doesn't want tight money market liquidity, and may conduct operations that are fairly neutral in coming weeks," said a trader at a securities company in Shanghai.

While overall liquidity is ample, individual small Chinese and foreign banks still face tight liquidity since big banks remain reluctant to lend to them because of concerns about credit risks.

This was evident in strong demand among small banks at the central bank's auction of 30 billion yuan of three-month finance ministry deposits on Thursday at a rate of 3.89 percent, higher than market expectations and flat from the previous auction of such deposits in July.

But the weighted average seven-day repo rate <CN7DRP=CFXS> slipped to 2.9142 percent by midday from 2.9455 percent on Wednesday.

Following are yields based on Reuters Reference Rates (bid):


                           CHINA YIELD CURVE (pct)
                          Oct 30     Pvs Day    Change
7-day repo <CN7DRP=CFXS>     2.9142     2.9455     -3.13 bps
7-day SHIBOR <SHICNYSWD=>    2.9138     2.9342     -2.04 bps
90-day CB bill <CN3MNFIX=R>  3.0023     3.0703     -6.80 bps
1-year CB bill <CN1YNFIX=R>  3.0081     3.1057     -9.76 bps
5-year Tsy <CN5YTFIX=R>      2.9064     2.9680     -6.16 bps
15-year Tsy <CN15YTFIX=R>    3.4609     3.5080     -4.71 bps


Note: Repo rate is weighted average.

To see SHIBOR rates, please click <SHIBOR=>

For information on reference rates for central bank bills, treasury bonds and sovereign bonds, please click <CNFIXINDEX>.

To see a general guide to contributed price data, news and analysis, please click <CN/CONT1>. ($1 = 6.83 yuan) (Reporting by Karen Yeung; Editing by Edmund Klamann)
   RFMARKETS-CHINA-BONDS (UPDATE 1)|LANGEN|Table|ABN|D|M|Z|E|RBN|RNP|DNP|PTD|PMF   NSe1101 : Economic Growth | e214 : Sub-national/Local Borrowing | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | e1202 : Interest Rates | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e21 : Government Finance | e212 : Government Borrowing | ecat : Economic News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REchina : China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | usa : United States | shahai : Shanghai | asiaz : Asia | chinaz : Greater China | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America   IPCMMT | DBT | CEN | MCE | CN/   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020081030e4au0005c  



 HDFACTBOX-U.S. Fed policymakers' recent comments   WC801 words   PD29 October 2008   ET19:34   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited   
   LPCHICAGO, Oct 29 (Reuters) - The following is a summary of recent comments by Federal Reserve policy-makers:

* Denotes 2008 voting member of the Federal Open Market Committee, which sets U.S. monetary policy.
   TDFOMC STATEMENT, OCT 29:

"The pace of economic activity appears to have slowed markedly, owing importantly to a decline in consumer expenditures. Business equipment spending and industrial production have weakened in recent months, and slowing economic activity in many foreign economies is damping the prospects for U.S. exports.

"Moreover, the intensification of financial market turmoil is likely to exert additional restraint on spending, partly by further reducing the ability of households and businesses to obtain credit.

"In light of the declines in the prices of energy and other commodities and the weaker prospects for economic activity, the Committee expects inflation to moderate in coming quarters to levels consistent with price stability.

"Recent policy actions, including today's rate reduction, coordinated interest rate cuts by central banks, extraordinary liquidity measures, and official steps to strengthen financial systems, should help over time to improve credit conditions and promote a return to moderate economic growth.

"Nevertheless, downside risks to growth remain. The Committee will monitor economic and financial developments carefully and will act as needed to promote sustainable economic growth and price stability."

* FED CHAIRMAN BEN BERNANKE, OCT 20:

"With the economy likely to be weak for several quarters, and with some risk of a protracted slowdown, consideration of a fiscal package by the Congress at this juncture seems appropriate.

"The stabilization of the financial system, though an essential first step, will not quickly eliminate the challenges still faced by the broader economy."

* ATLANTA FED PRESIDENT DENNIS LOCKHART, OCT 20:

"We at the Atlanta Fed expect weakness to persist for some time into 2009 as credit markets gradually improve.

"With the deterioration in economic conditions and the recent associated falloff in energy and many other commodity prices, I anticipate further dissipation of inflationary pressures."

ST LOUIS FED PRESIDENT JAMES BULLARD, OCT 17:

"We're trying to keep a close eye on money creation and right now, inflation is contained."

CHICAGO FED PRESIDENT CHARLES EVANS, OCT 17:

"Unemployment rarely goes up this much without a recession following ... The housing market is a continuing strain, and we are experiencing disruptions in worldwide credit markets that are without precedent in the post-World War Two era."

* MINNEAPOLIS FED PRESIDENT GARY STERN, OCT 16:

"We should anticipate further declines in employment and softness in most components of demand for goods and services.

"In view of the scope and severity of the recent financial shock, the restraint on economic activity stemming from credit market headwinds could exceed the experience of the 1990s."

ST LOUIS FED PRESIDENT JAMES BULLARD, OCT 15:

"The third quarter, I think, will be flat to slightly negative. That is going to push up the probability that it will later be named a recession."

* FED CHAIRMAN BEN BERNANKE, OCT 15:

"By restricting flows of credit to households, businesses and state and local governments, the turmoil in financial markets and the funding pressures on financial firms pose a significant threat to economic growth.

"We will continue to use all the tools at our disposal to improve market functioning and liquidity, to reduce pressures in key credit and funding markets, and to complement the steps the Treasury and foreign governments will be taking to strengthen the financial system."

* FED VICE CHAIRMAN DONALD KOHN, OCT 15:

"The effects of the easier stance of policy on the cost and availability of credit were overwhelmed last week by the further erosion of confidence.

"I see the most probable scenario as one in which the performance of the economy remains subpar well into next year and then gradually improves in late 2009 and 2010."

SAN FRANCISCO FED PRESIDENT JANET YELLEN, OCT 14:

"The recent flow of economic data suggests that the economy was weaker than expected in the third quarter, probably showing essentially no growth at all. Growth in the fourth quarter appears to be weaker yet, with an outright contraction quite likely. Indeed, the U.S. economy appears to be in a recession.

"By now, virtually every major sector of the economy has been hit by the financial shock."

ST LOUIS FED PRESIDENT JAMES BULLARD, OCT 14:

"Over-reliance on interest rate policy in this environment does little to solve the problems at hand and, in addition, may cause a new and difficult-to-solve inflation problem in the wake of the current turbulence."

* FED CHAIRMAN BEN BERNANKE, OCT 13:

"Our economy will not be able to function at its best unless and until financial market stability returns."

(Reporting by Ros Krasny)
   RFUSA-FED/COMMENTS (FACTBOX)|LANGEN|Table|ABN|M|D|E|RBN|U|MNI|RNP|DNP   NSe1101 : Economic Growth | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | e1202 : Interest Rates | gpol : Domestic Politics | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCWASH | MUNI | DBT | FED | GVD | MMT | INT | MCE | CEN | STIR | PLCY | POL | FED/QUOTES   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020081029e4at002dh  



 HDFOREX-Dollar falls vs euro as US stocks rally after rate cut   WC171 words   PD29 October 2008   ET20:39   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited   
   LP (Updates with latest market move)

 NEW YORK, Oct 29 (Reuters) - The dollar extended losses against the euro on Wednesday after U.S. stocks rallied following an interest rate cut by the Federal Reserve.
   TD The euro <EUR=> last traded up 1.8 percent at $1.2940. The dollar had earlier trimmed losses against the euro immediately after the Fed rate decision.

 The Fed statement "leaves the door open to further rate reductions, though plainly they are running out of interest rate bullets," said Alan Ruskin, chief international strategist, at RBS Global Banking and Markets.

 He said there may be a little profit-taking on positive risk appetite trades now that the Fed has duly delivered the much expected rate cut, but adds even slight gains in stocks "would be considered a victory for risk appetite in the bigger scheme of things."   
   RFMARKETS-FOREX (UPDATE 9, URGENT)|LANGEN|C|D|E|M|O|U|MTL|GRO|SOF|OIL   NSe52 : Euro Zone/Currency | ntop : Dow Jones/Reuters Top Wire News | e1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCFRX | EUR | DRV | NEWS | USD/ | FRX/   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020081029e4at002fw  



 HDFED FOCUS-Fed expands playbook to boost ailing economy   BYBy Ros Krasny     WC669 words   PD29 October 2008   ET23:19   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited  
   LPCHICAGO, Oct 29 (Reuters) - The severity of the shock facing the U.S. economy has not been lost on Federal Reserve policy-makers, who seem committed to pulling out all stops to brighten a distressingly bleak outlook.

The downbeat note struck in Wednesday's Federal Open Market Committee statement was a dramatic departure from just six weeks ago, when the Fed judged that growth and inflation risks were roughly equal.
   TDFacing the worst potential economic downturn in decades, the Fed lowered its benchmark interest rates by half a percentage point and seems likely to lower benchmark lending rates yet again in December.

As its rate-cutting ammunition shrinks though, the Fed will be forced into a "quantitative easing" regime that many analysts say they have already quietly launched.

"They are effectively in quantitative easing," said Steve Ricchiuto, chief economist at Mizuho Securities in New York, referring to the monetary policy strategy adopted by the Bank of Japan in the early 1990s to fight deflation when short-term interest rates had already been pushed close to zero.

Although no official program has been announced by the Fed, the process looks well under way. The U.S. central bank has been flooding markets with liquidity and appears content to see the effective federal funds rate in the interbank market trade far below the announced target rate.

"Based on the ... effective rate, it is clear that the Fed is not fully sterilizing its open market operations," said economists at Deutsche Bank. "This is a positive development, because it means the abundance of dollars should further lower Libor." The Libor interbank rate often used as a benchmark for consumer loans.

Federal funds traded at 0.25 percent ahead of the Fed's rate cut announcement on Wednesday and even lower, to 0.125 percent, afterward.

Over the past ten days it has averaged about 0.74 percent, well below the 1.5 percent target that prevailed before the central bank lowered it yet again to 1.0 percent on Wednesday.

"History will likely view the true story of this easing cycle being as much about the Fed's version of a Bank of Japan-style quantitative ease, as it is about the myriad of acronym-laced targeted lending facilities," said Max Bublitz, chief strategist at SCM Advisors LLC in San Francisco.

WARP SPEED

Compared with the BOJ's program in the early 2000s, the Fed has moved with warp speed to expand its balance sheet as a result of those myriad measures to unlock credit markets.

Twin catalysts have been a program the U.S. Treasury announced on Sept. 17 to borrow on behalf of the Fed and the Fed's recently won ability to pay interest on bank reserves -- part of a financial rescue bill signed into law earlier this month.

"Whereas the BOJ increased its balance sheet by about 35 percent over three years, the Fed has doubled the size of its balance sheet in about a month," said Barclays Capital economists Paul Sheard and Zach Pandl.

"The BOJ pioneered 'unconventional' policy; the Fed is showing how it is really done."

Wednesday's interest rate cut was the second within a month in response to what has been pegged as the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression.

Futures markets that handicap potential interest rate moves point to another quarter-point cut, to 0.75 percent, at the Fed's next meeting in December, and some Fed watchers see the end-point of the current cycle at 0.5 percent.

"I think they are going to stop here, but I have to admit that it is possible that they could go lower, and many people are suggesting that they will," said Kevin Logan, senior economist at Dresdner Kleinwort in New York. (Additional reporting by Pedro Nicolaci da Costa and Richard Leong in New York)
   RFUSA-FED/ (ANALYSIS)|LANGEN|ABN|M|D|E|RBN|U|RNP|DNP   NSe1101 : Economic Growth | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | e1202 : Interest Rates | gpol : Domestic Politics | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCWASH | FED | CEN | MCE | PLCY | STIR | INT | MMT | DBT | POL | FED/FOCUS   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020081029e4at002mf  



 HDNation's grocers hold onto slight gains following Fed's  interest rate  cut   WC142 words   PD29 October 2008   ET19:54   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPPORTLAND, Ore. (AP) - Shares of the nation's largest grocers continued to rise slightly following the Federal Reserve's decision to cut interest rates.

It's widely expected that banks will move quickly to match the action, so that means the cut will push down borrowing costs for millions of consumer and business loans and hopefully boost economic growth.
   TDGrocers had shown some slight gains in morning trading. And after Federal Reserve decided on a half-point rate cut to boost economic growth going forward, those shares continued to rise.

In trading immediately following the announcement, shares of Safeway Inc. rose 47 cents to $20.96. Supervalu Inc. shares rose 5 cents to $13.75. And shares of Whole Foods Markets Inc. rose 16 cents to $10.70.
   RF7   COsfwfs : Safeway Inc | svu : Supervalu Inc | whofoo : Whole Foods Market Inc   INi41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i64 : Retail/Wholesale | i641 : Food Retailing | i6411 : Supermarkets/Grocery Stores | i654 : Specialty Stores | ifood : Food Products | iretail : Retail   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusor : Oregon | namz : North America | usa : United States | usw : Western U.S.   IPCtagpf1finonl | sel----- | catf | 1333   IPDFinancial/Business | Grocery Post Fed Sector Snap | D944B4MG5   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020081029e4at002hi  



 HDShares of credit card companies slide, Discover down after the  Federal Reserve  cuts rates   WC243 words   PD29 October 2008   ET20:01   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPCHARLOTTE, N.C. (AP) - Shares of major credit card companies sold off slightly Wednesday after the Federal Reserve lowered its key interest rate by a half point to 1 percent.

The cut, which was the second half-point reduction in the funds rate this month, puts additional downward pressure on consumers' monthly credit card bills. As a result, many cardholders could possibly see lower credit card rates.
   TDMasterCard shares traded as high as $143.72 earlier in the session, but gave up some of the gains after the Fed's announcement, recently trading at $139.19. Shares of Visa traded at $52.91, slightly off their intraday high of $53.37.

Earlier this week, the two companies agreed to pay Discover up to $2.75 billion to settle an antitrust suit. Under terms of the agreement, Discover will receive $862.5 million from MasterCard in the fourth quarter, and $1.89 billion from Visa over the four quarters of 2009.

Discover shares fell 25 cents to $11.40.

Visa settled a similar suit with American Express nearly a year ago for a maximum of $2.25 billion, and MasterCard settled with AmEx in June for a maximum of $1.8 billion.

Shares of American Express lost 37 cents to $25.10, while another credit card issuer, Capital One, lost $1.47, or 3.7 percent, to $38.53.
   RF7   COdiscfs : Discover Financial Services Inc   INi81501 : Credit Types/Services | i8150108 : Credit Cards | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe1106 : Consumer Credit/Expenditure/Savings | e1202 : Interest Rates | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News   REusnc : North Carolina | namz : North America | usa : United States | uss : Southern U.S.   IPCtagpf1finonl | sel----- | catf | 1333   IPDFinancial/Business | Credit Cards Post Fed Sector Snap | D944B8401   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020081029e4at002i5  



 HDAnalysis: With  interest rate  at 1 percent, there are risks if Fed lowers it further   BYBy JEANNINE AVERSA      CRAP Economics Writer   WC1,360 words   PD29 October 2008   ET23:44   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPWASHINGTON (AP) - Just how far will the Federal Reserve go in lowering interest rates to save the country from a long and painful recession?

Ratcheting its key rate from the current 1 percent all the way down to zero can't be ruled out. But there are risks in taking such an unprecedented step: namely, that it wouldn't work in turning around the economy and breaking through a stubborn credit clog.
   TDEventually, a zero percent rate -- virtually "free" loans for banks -- could trigger a speculative investment frenzy that could feed a bubble that pops, wreaking havoc on the economy. Former Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan -- now partly blamed for the current problems -- has called today's crisis a "once-in-a-century credit tsunami."

Emphatic as it was, the bold rate reduction the Fed ordered Wednesday and the possibility of even lower rates ahead are no panacea. Even lower rates won't necessarily entice skittish Americans to spend and squeezed banks to lend more freely -- forces at the heart of the economic woes.

With any luck, though, the Fed's action will cushion the blow to the country, which is on the brink of -- or already in -- its first recession since 2001.

The Fed slashed its key rate by half a percentage point to 1 percent, a rate not seen since 2003 and part of 2004. The rate hasn't been lower since 1958.

In a gloomier assessment of the economy, Fed policymakers said "the pace of economic activity appears to have slowed markedly" as consumers and businesses cut back on spending, and economic slowdowns in other countries sap demand for U.S. exports, which have helped keep the economy afloat.

Moreover, the "intensification of financial market turmoil" is likely to weigh on consumers and businesses, further reducing their ability to borrow money, the Fed said.

Underscoring the Fed's sense of urgency is this fact: It took just 13 months for Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke, a student of the Great Depression, to ratchet down rates to the 1 percent mark. It took his predecessor, Greenspan, 2 1/2 years.

Many economists predict Fed policymakers will drop the rate again to half a percentage point, which would mark an all-time low, on or before Dec. 16 -- its last scheduled meeting of the year. The Fed left the door wide open to more rate cuts, pledging to "act as needed" to revive the economy.

"We are in a crisis situation and everything is on the table," said Richard Yamarone, an economist at Argus Research. "If conditions deteriorate considerably, the Fed could go down to zero. It is absolutely a possibility, but I don't believe it is likely."

Yet even if the Fed were to lower its key rate to zero, that might not reverse the bunker mentality of consumers and lead them to ramp up spending.

More than in recent recessions, consumers have retrenched as vanishing jobs, shrinking paychecks and nest eggs, and sinking home values have made them feel less wealthy and less inclined to spend. Consumer spending -- the single biggest chunk of overall economic activity -- probably fell in the July-to-September quarter. That would mark the first quarterly drop since late 1991, when the country was emerging from a recession.

And just because borrowing costs are cheaper doesn't mean banks will feel more inclined to beef up lending to people and businesses.

"The problem is not the interest rate," said Sean Snaith, an economics professor at the University of Central Florida. "It is that no one is willing to loan, regardless of what the rate is. Lower rates will not make the problem go away. The credit crunch will take time to resolve. This is another action to just chip away at the gridlock in this economy, but we shouldn't expect a miraculous turn of events from this."

The Fed's move Wednesday meant the prime lending rate used to peg rates on home equity loans, certain credit cards and other consumer loans dropped to 4 percent. Even if the Fed were to cut its main rate to zero, the prime rate would fall to 3 percent but no lower.

The Fed's previous rate reductions, in fact, were blunted by the credit crunch. The Fed slashed rates by a whopping 3.25 percentage points, from 5.25 percent to 2 percent, between September 2007 and April 2008, one of the most aggressive campaigns in decades. On Oct. 8, the Fed lowered rates again to 1.5 percent in a coordinated action with other central banks around the world.

The Fed probably would want to stop short of zero, so it saves precious ammunition -- meaning additional rate cuts -- should the economy take a turn for the worse later on, some economists said.

Others believe the Fed would want to avoid the fate of Japan, which failed to revive its economy even after its central bank slashed rates to zero in 1999 and kept them there for six years before bumping them up again. Japan became mired in a decade of lost growth in the 1990s after real-estate prices collapsed. That caused a severe bout of deflation, which is a destabilizing drop in prices.

"Cutting rates to zero is a fairly desperate measure, and a lot of stigma is attached to it," Snaith said. "It would bring on comparisons to Japan."

There's also the worry that dropping rates to all-time lows would feed the type of speculative boom and painful bust that the country is now suffering through. Greenspan lowered rates to 1 percent in summer 2003 as he sought to aid the economy's slow recovery from the 2001 recession and fend off a remote -- but dangerous -- risk of deflation. He kept rates at that historically low level for a year.

Critics contend that those low rate fed the housing bubble and lax lending standards that eventually burst and imperiled the economy. The meltdown drove up foreclosures and forced financial companies to rack up huge losses on soured mortgage investments, laying low storied Wall Street firms and causing banks to fail.

Instead of dropping rates to zero, the Fed probably will turn to other weapons to battle the crisis.

The Fed has already created first-of-its-kind programs, such as getting cash directly to companies by buying up mounds of "commercial paper," the short-term debt firms use to pay everyday expenses such as payroll and supplies. That program, which started Monday, is helping to relieve credit stresses, economists said. The Fed also is providing loans to banks, has moved to provide a financial backstop to the mutual fund industry and has injected billions of dollars in financial markets here and abroad.

The Fed could opt to expand programs by enlarging loans it's now making, providing loans to other types of companies, or buying more and different types of debt. The Fed's balance sheet has doubled to $1.8 trillion in recent months, reflecting those other activities to get credit flowing again.

Because the Fed has wide latitude in these areas, many economists believe Fed policymakers are more likely to continue this route than to lower its key rate to zero.

No matter the relief tactics, though, the economy is due for more pain. The unemployment rate, now 6.1 percent, could hit 8 percent or higher by next year. Home prices are likely to keep sinking for some time, and nest eggs will continue to be battered.

"We've been in pain, and it will get more much severe over the next six months," predicted Mark Zandi, chief economist at Moody's Economy.com. "The economic damage of the financial panic has already been done, and the Fed is trying to limit the damage as best it can."

------

EDITOR'S NOTE: AP Economics Writer Jeannine Aversa has covered the Federal Reserve and the economy since 1999.
   RF7   ARTimage/jpeg: ccf4b8f8-fb0c-427c-9b98-fd2d60868924 | image/jpeg: 2703c1db-9c83-4cba-80ca-82fa828ef12f | video/x-apvideo: 1029b_economy      NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagpf1finonl | sel----- | cata | 1333   IPDDomestic US | Fed How Low Can They Go | D944EGE82   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020081029e4at002ud  



 HDConsumer electronic chains dip after Fed cuts rates by half a percent   WC159 words   PD29 October 2008   ET19:33   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPCHICAGO (AP) - Shares of the country's three largest consumer electronics retailers dipped after the Federal Reserve cut a key interest rate by half a point on Thursday.

It was the first rate cut for the nation's central bank since it lowered rates Oct. 8, and brings the interest rate to 1 percent as federal regulators try to combat a growing financial crisis.
   TDThe trio -- Best Buy Co. Inc., RadioShack Corp. and Circuit City Stores Inc. -- have all seen sales slip since the nation's economy began to slow and shoppers pulled back on discretionary spending for everything from refrigerators to DVD players.

Best Buy shares fell 70 cents, or 2.9 percent, to $23.30 in afternoon trading. RadioShack fell 35 cents, or 2.8 percent, to $12.20 and Circuit City fell a penny, or 3.5 percent, to 27 cents per share.
   RF7   CObstbuy : Best Buy Co Inc | tandie : RadioShack Corp | wrd : Circuit City Stores Inc   INi6482 : Electronics/Appliance Stores | i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i64 : Retail/Wholesale | i648 : Household Goods/Hardware Stores | i654 : Specialty Stores | ielec : Electronics | iretail : Retail   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagpf1finonl | sel----- | catf | 1333   IPDFinancial/Business | Consumer Electroncis Post Fed Sector Snap | D944AR080   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020081029e4at002b7  



 HDLowe's, Home Depot rise after Fed cuts  interest rate  by half a percent   WC159 words   PD29 October 2008   ET19:46   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPCHICAGO (AP) - Shares of home improvement retailers rose after the Federal Reserve cut a key interest rate by half a point on Thursday.

The largely expected rate cut was the first from the nation's central bank since lowering rates Oct. 8, when the Fed and other foreign banks made a coordinated move to loosen the credit markets and spur lending.
   TDIt brings the federal funds rate, the interest banks charge on overnight loans, to 1 percent.

Both The Home Depot Inc. and Lowe's Cos. Inc. have seen their businesses erode since the nation's housing market began to slow and as global credit markets froze, keeping people from buying new homes and embarking on remodeling projections.

Home Depot shares climbed 49 cents, or 2.4 percent, to $22.06 in midday trading. Meanwhile, Lowe's shares added 13 cents to $19.76.
   RF7   COhomd : The Home Depot, Inc. | lowco : Lowe's Cos Inc   INi64 : Retail/Wholesale | i648 : Household Goods/Hardware Stores | i6483 : Decorating/DIY/Hardware Stores | i654 : Specialty Stores | iretail : Retail   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagpf1finonl | sel----- | catf | 1333   IPDFinancial/Business | Home Improvement Post Fed Sector Snap | D944B0O80   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020081029e4at002ez  



 HDShares of software companies mostly climb after Fed cuts key  interest rate    WC220 words   PD29 October 2008   ET20:22   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPSEATTLE (AP) - Shares of software makers traded mostly higher Wednesday after the Federal Reserve slashed a key interest rate by half-point to its lowest level since 2004.

The cut is expected to make it cheaper for companies to borrow money as banks follow the Fed's decision by cutting their own rates.
   TDWall Street was expecting the half-point cut to the interest banks charge on overnight loans, but in the hour after the announcement, investors were still digesting the Fed's view that economic conditions in the U.S. and abroad are deteriorating.

Shares of Redmond, Wash.-based Microsoft Corp., the world's largest software maker, edged up 48 cents, or 2 percent, to $23.58 after trading lower in the moments after the announcement.

Adobe Systems Inc., which makes publishing and graphics software, saw its stock climb 30 cents to $27.38.

Database software maker Oracle Corp.'s stock added 33 cents to $17.95, while another major business software maker, SAP AG, saw its U.S.-traded shares gain $2.56, or 8 percent, to $34.60.

Shares of security software vendor McAfee Inc. dropped 16 cents to $28.86, and its competitor Symantec Corp.'s stock added 20 cents to $15.02.
   RF7   COadosy : Adobe Systems Inc | orcle : Oracle Corporation | sapwa : SAP AG   INi3302 : Computers/Electronics | i330202 : Software | i3302021 : Applications Software | icomp : Computing | ientrps : Enterprise Resource Planning Software   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | m11 : Equity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagpf1finonl | sel----- | catf | 1333   IPDFinancial/Business | Post Fed Sector Snap Software | D944BHP01   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020081029e4at002k6  



 CLMAhead of the Tape   SEMarkets   HDFed Rate Cut Means Little to Markets   BYBy Mark Gongloff    WC556 words   PD29 October 2008   SNThe Wall Street Journal (Online and Print)   SCWSJO   PGMarkets; C1   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2008 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
   LPThe Fed is about to give financial markets a placebo.

Federal Reserve policy makers Wednesday are widely expected to cut their target for the federal-funds rate, an overnight bank-lending rate, to 1% from 1.5%, back to its historic lows of 2003 and 2004.
   TDSuch low rates should be rocket fuel for stocks, boosting economic growth and corporate profits. Lower Fed rates can help corporate bonds, too, though they typically hurt Treasurys, as investors worry about the potential for inflation.

This time, however, cutting the rate target has all the import of snipping the ribbon on a new construction project.

The fed-funds rate already is well below the Fed's target and has been for most of the past month. Since the Fed cut its target to 1.5% on Oct. 8, the interest rate has traded above that level only once and has been below it the rest of the time. On several days, it has traded below 1%.

The Fed manipulates the fed-funds rate by buying and selling bonds and other securities. Lately, these open-market operations have been on steroids, and the moves, along with some technical factors, have caused the Fed to temporarily lose full control of the funds rate.

Fortunately, that doesn't matter much now. With the world shedding debt and parking cash, money supply is draining from the system, and the Fed's extraordinary efforts are just enough to replace it.

"When a water system fails, the first thing to do is to re-establish pressure in the water lines," says Bruce McCain, chief investment strategist at Key Private Bank, which is part of KeyCorp.

The Fed has little choice but to cut rates Wednesday lest it disappoint market expectations. But until the demand for money starts to rise again in the broader economy, for example when lending picks up, rate cuts will have little lasting effect on markets.

Legg's Results Likely To Be Big Comedown

Baltimore money manager Legg Mason is hobbled, its stock down 84% in the past year. At its flagship stock mutual fund, Bill Miller's $7.6 billion Legg Mason Value Trust, returns are down 56% this year through Monday, due to big stakes in the likes of Freddie Mac and Merrill Lynch. Legg's biggest bond offering, the $11.8 billion Western Asset Core Plus Bond Fund, is down 13% this year, or 12 percentage points behind its benchmark, because of bad corporate-bond and mortgage bets.

Analysts expect Legg to post a four cent per-share loss when it reports quarterly results Wednesday. That would be smaller than the losses logged in the past two quarters, but still a big come-down from the year-earlier period's $1.23 in per-share profit.

Investors also are fretting over Legg's structured-investment vehicle, or SIV, holdings in its money-market funds -- distressed securities that many other fund firms are also struggling with. Legg still has $3.7 billion in such assets. It has resisted unloading them at fire-sale prices. Moody's recently downgraded Legg over such issues, and Goldman Sachs says Legg is now "hamstrung" by SIV woes.

Diya Gullapalli

Please send questions and comments to tape@wsj.com 
   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | c1521 : Analyst Comment/Recommendation | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | c15 : Performance | c152 : Earnings Projections | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPDBruce McCain | Ahead of the Tape   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument WSJO000020091007e4at00k8w  



 CLMToday's Markets   SEMarkets   HDAfter Rate Cut, Stocks Gyrate   BYBy Peter A. McKay    WC834 words   PD30 October 2008   ET03:05   SNThe Wall Street Journal (Online and Print)   SCWSJO   PGMarkets   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2008 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
   LPThe stock market continued to function like an old movie serial. Every day, there's a thrilling conclusion to tune in for.

On Wednesday, an interest-rate cut by the Federal Reserve wasn't enough to calm the market, which ended mixed following another volatile session.
   TDThe Dow Jones Industrial Average swung in a range of nearly 450 points, posting both its intraday high and its low in the last 15 minutes of trading. It ended down 74.16 points, off 0.8%, at 8990.96. Among the blue-chip average's components, General Electric was a big catalyst in the late-day swoon. It slid about 3.5% in the last 15 minutes of trading.

Fed cut or not, traders say the market's unprecedented volatility has kept them on the lookout for a possible return to the market's recent lows. The Dow is more than 1,100 points above its intraday trough reached Oct. 10, but the spiky trading seen recently suggested a return could be accomplished quickly.

Further, many participants worry that the Fed's rate cuts may not do much good for months. There is always a lag time in seeing results from monetary policy changes, but under the current circumstances, the wait could be even longer.

Banks have remained nervous about lending despite the already-low cost of money in recent months and the global economy appears in store for a deep slowdown.

"The bad thing about this is the components," including a 6.2% slide in the S&P financial sector on Wednesday, reflecting investors' lingering fears about Wall Street's credit crunch, said Roger Volz, a trader at Hampton Securities, a New York brokerage. "You need a stronger base in the financials in order to sustain a rally in the broader market."

The S&P 500 as a whole was down 1.1%, ending at 930.09. But the technology-oriented Nasdaq Composite was a bright spot, rising 0.5% to 1657.21. The small-stock Russell 2000 fared even better, rising 1.7% to 490.88.

The market wobbled after the Fed unveiled its move, but saved its most spectacular fireworks for the very end of the session. Forced selling to cover margin calls and end-of-month portfolio rebalancing were both on full display, traders said.

As most market participants expected, the Fed cut its key rate target to 1%. It also signaled that more cuts are a possibility, noting that "downside risks to growth remain."

The cut came on a day when central banks in China and Norway also pared interest rates. The European Central Bank and the Bank of England are widely expected to follow suit with rate cuts next week and the Bank of Japan has also signaled that it may cut rates.

Rate-cut expectations helped fuel a stunning market rally on Tuesday. The Dow industrials surged by 889 points in the second-biggest single-day point gain on record. That jump stirred fresh debate over whether a bottom has been reached -- or if simply a bear-market rally unfolded.

"We believe that it may be too early and too risky to be bold," said Ben Pace, Chief Investment Officer at Deutsche Bank Private Wealth Management in New York. "Investors who have cash to put to work may be prudent to resist the temptation to dramatically increase equity exposure until there is greater clarity.

Nonetheless, some investors have been gradually adding to their stock holdings in recent days. Neil Hennessy, president of Hennessy Funds in Novato, Calif., said his firm has been looking for big-name stocks that are adequately priced for the risks ahead.

Mr. Hennessy said he's encouraged by the fact that blue chips as a group now cost less than a dollar for each dollar in expected sales over the next 12 months, contrary to the usual scenario in which there's a slight premium in the share prices.

"Things are in pretty good shape, as horrific as everyone feels," he said.

Interbank eased but remained high in historic terms. Three month dollar Libor declined to 3.42% from 3.465%. Tuesday. The overnight rate dropped to 1.14% from Tuesday's 1.235%, below the fed-funds target of 1.5%.

Oil futures rose $4.77, or 7.6%, to $67.50 a barrel following the release of weekly inventory data showing a smaller rise in U.S. stockpiles than expected.

Treasury prices were mixed. The two-year note fell 3/32 to yield 1.544%. The benchmark 10-year note was unchanged, yielding 3.849%.

The dollar was sharply lower, weakening against the euro, British pound, and Japanese yen. The U.S. Dollar Index, which measures the greenback's value against a basket of six overseas currencies, was off 2.1%.

E.S. Browning contributed to this article.

Write to Peter A. McKay at peter.mckay@wsj.com .
   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | c1522 : Share Price Movement/Disruptions | m11 : Equity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | c15 : Performance | c152 : Earnings Projections | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPDToday's Markets   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument WSJO000020091008e4au0020x  



 SEMarkets   HDShares Rally on Credit, Economic Measures; Hyundai Heavy, Posco at Daily Limit; Earnings in Tokyo   BYBy Evan Ramstad in Seoul, Rosalind Mathieson in Singapore and Brad Frischkorn in Tokyo    WC949 words   PD30 October 2008   ET18:56   SNThe Wall Street Journal (Online and Print)   SCWSJO   PGInternational Markets   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2008 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
   LPAsian investors cheered global efforts to deal with the credit crisis and the slowing world economy, sending markets up sharply Thursday in Tokyo, Hong Kong and Seoul.

South Korea's benchmark stock index jumped 12%, its biggest single-day percentage gain, in reaction to news that the country's central bank was one of several that had arranged a currency-swap agreement with the U.S. Federal Reserve that could inject more liquidity into its system. The market was also driven by the Fed's decision to lower interest rates in the U.S. and the South Korean government's announcement that its September trade deficit was about half the size it was in August.
   TDTokyo's market rose 10% on the global efforts and a further drop by the yen against the euro, easing profit pressure on Japan's exporters. Hong Kong jumped 13%, marking its third double-digit percentage move this week, sparked by rate cuts in China and the U.S. The Shanghai Composite Index rose 2.5%. Markets in Mumbai were closed for a holiday.

"Concerted efforts by central banks to cut interest rates are giving markets world-wide a shot in the arm," said Accord Capital Equities analyst Lawrence De Leon in Manila.

Still, the gains came in a climate of much uncertainty about the outlook for corporate earnings and economic growth. "Despite the welcome responses to policy actions, risk from slower global growth has not been extinguished and still points to potential underperformance for much of Asia," said Socit Gnrale currency strategist Patrick Bennett.

Under the arrangement between the U.S. and South Korea, the Bank of Korea said it would have access to U.S. dollar funds of as much as $30 billion in exchange for South Korean won. The Korea Composite Stock Price Index, or Kospi, gained 115.75 points to 1084.72. The news also lifted the won in trading against the U.S. dollar, and South Korean treasury futures rose.

South Korea's banks have been big borrowers of dollars and euros on international markets in recent years to loan to South Korean businesses that engage in international trade, making the country's economy more dependent on supplies of foreign currencies. Also Thursday, the South Korea National Assembly approved a measure calling for the government to guarantee foreign-currency borrowings of South Korean banks.

Posco and Hyundai Heavy Industries surged by the daily limit of 15%. Technology stocks also soared as foreigners showed renewed interest in them, said Lee Sun-yup, an analyst at Goodmorning Shinhan Securities. Bellwether Samsung Electronics jumped 13%, and Hynix Semiconductor gained 15% despite its worst quarterly net loss in almost eight years.

In Tokyo, the Nikkei Stock Average of 225 companies rose 817.86 points to 9029.76, its biggest point gain since Oct. 14. The index has risen 26% in the past three sessions, after hitting a 26-year low Monday.

Some positive corporate earnings reports helped the market. Mobile-services provider Softbank quickly went limit-up, with a gain of 13%, after reporting solid second-quarter results and growth forecasts. Game maker Nintendo jumped 11% on expectations of a strong earnings report, released after the close. Nintendo's net profit climbed 9.4% in its fiscal first half, but it cut its full-year profit outlook.

Earnings news wasn't all rosy. Toshiba swung to a 26.85 billion yen ($276.3 million) second-quarter net loss from a 25.03 billion yen net profit a year earlier, but the results had been largely factored into the share price already. The stock closed up 6.4%.

Sony, which cited the weaker euro in reporting a 72% net-profit fall for the July-September quarter, gained for the third straight session, adding 12%.

In Hong Kong, the Hang Seng Index rose 1627.78 points to 14329.85. A flurry of interest-rate cuts, including in the U.S., mainland China, Hong Kong and Taiwan, sparked the rally. Industrial &Commercial Bank of China rose 13%, China Construction Bank jumped 19%, Ping An Insurance rose 19% and China Life Insurance rose 12%.

In Singapore, the Straits Times Index gained 7.8% to 1801.91. Cheered by China's rate cut, Cosco rose 14% and Yanlord Land Group gained 5%. Offshore and marine stocks led the index. Sembcorp Marine rose 22%, while Sembcorp Industries climbed 11%. Keppel Corp. rose 13%.

Shares in mainland China joined the trend to a lesser degree, with the Shanghai Composite Index rising to 1763.61. The People's Bank of China said late Wednesday that it cut the one-year lending and deposit rates by 0.27 percentage point each.

Banks were among the biggest gainers Thursday. Bank of Communications rose 4.9% and China Construction Bank jumped 4.3%. Coal miners led the broader market gains following an overnight rebound in oil prices and on expectations that power demand will rise as the winter approaches. Datong Coal Industry rose 9.3% after reporting that its third-quarter net profit almost quadrupled. Shanxi Guoyang New Energy rose 5.6%.

Australia's S&P/ASX 200 gained 4% to 4001.1, also helped by commodity and energy stocks. BHP Billiton rose 8.8%, Rio Tinto gained 9.2%, Woodside Petroleum climbed 13% and Newcrest Mining was up 9.7%.

Write to Evan Ramstad at evan.ramstad@wsj.com , Rosalind Mathieson at rosalind.mathieson@dowjones.com  and Brad Frischkorn at bradford.frischkorn@dowjones.com  and Brad Frischkorn at 
   COpohn : Posco Co   INi22 : Primary Metals | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | imet : Metals/Mining | isteel : Steel Production   NSc1522 : Share Price Movement/Disruptions | e1202 : Interest Rates | m11 : Equity Markets | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | c15 : Performance | c152 : Earnings Projections | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter   REskorea : South Korea | china : China | jap : Japan | hkong : Hong Kong | asiaz : Asia | usa : United States | tokyo : Tokyo | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America   IPDLawrence De Leon | Patrick Bennett | Lee Sun-yup | Asia Markets   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument WSJO000020091007e4au00fzo  



 SEAWSJ   HDU.S. stocks rise, but momentum sapped by report   BYBy Peter A. McKay    CRThe Wall Street Journal Asia   WC542 words   PD29 October 2008   SNThe Wall Street Journal (Online and Print)   SCWSJO   PGAWSJ   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2008 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
   LPU.S. stocks rose after strong rallies by equities overseas, but a rock-bottom reading on consumer confidence stole the market's forward momentum, wiping out much of the gains.

After an early climb of more than 300 points, the Dow Jones Industrial Average was up 137.47 points, or 1.7%, at 8313.24 in early afternoon trading. Boeing climbed 4.3% after reaching a tentative labor agreement with its largest union that could end a costly strike. General Motors gained 7.7% on reports that the government may approve loans that could clear the way for the auto maker to merge with rival Chrysler.
   TDThe Standard &Poor's 500-stock index was up 12.65 points, or 1.5%, at 861.57 and the Nasdaq Composite Index was up 13.48 points, or 0.9%, at 1519.38. Both benchmarks retreated from earlier highs.

"The market is moving around right now, but there's absolutely no liquidity," said Michael Davis, an independent trader active in Treasury and stock-index futures at the Chicago Board of Trade. "The investment banks aren't playing right now," due to their recent financial struggles.

The Conference Board said its consumer-confidence index fell to a reading of 38 in October, a record low that was also far worse than economists expected.

The Federal Reserve's interest-rate setting committee began deliberations on Tuesday, with expectations for a half-point cut to bring the fed-funds rate to 1%. The U.S. central bank rarely makes announcements on the first day of its two-day meetings, but after this month's global coordinated rate cut, traders are on alert for an early move.

Corporate profits remain a concern. If quarterly results remain weak, analysts say, any rally could be difficult to sustain. Shares of Whirlpool were under pressure after it pared its 2008 guidance and announced it will cut 5,000 jobs. The appliance maker was down 17%.

Oil prices rose 78 cents per barrel, or 1.2%, to $64.00.

European Markets

European Central Bank Jean-Claude Trichet said Monday that another Europe rate cut was "possible" and Bank of England Governor Mervyn King recently admitted for the first time that the U.K. was likely in recession.

The pan-European Dow Jones Stoxx 600 index rose 2.3% to 199.44. Among national indexex, the U.K. FTSE 100 index rose 1.9% to 3926.38 and the French CAC-40 index climbed 1.6% to 3114.92.

The German DAX index rose 11% to 4823.45, lifted by a surge for Volkswagen. Short sellers rushed to buy shares after Porsche announced over the weekend that it plans to take 75% control. At one point in the session, Europe's top auto maker staked a claim as the world's largest company by market capitalization, passing Exxon Mobil.

Standard Chartered closed 2.9% higher as the Asian-focused bank said it made "good progress" during the third quarter and said Asian economies remain resilient.

Sarah Turner in London contributed to this article.

Write to Peter A. McKay at peter.mckay@wsj.com 
   NSc1522 : Share Price Movement/Disruptions | e1202 : Interest Rates | m11 : Equity Markets | c15 : Performance | c152 : Earnings Projections | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPDMichael Davis | AWSJ   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument WSJO000020091007e4at00en1  



 SEWSJE   HDU.S. stocks sink to loss in final minutes of trade   BYBy Peter A. McKay    CRThe Wall Street Journal Europe   WC530 words   PD30 October 2008   SNThe Wall Street Journal (Online and Print)   SCWSJO   PGWSJE   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2008 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
   LPU.S. stocks gyrated Wednesday as investors responded to the Federal Reserve's decision to cut its key interest-rate target.

The Dow Jones Industrial Average wobbled after the Fed unveiled its move, surged higher, and then plunged into negative territory just before the close of trading, echoing the volatile moves the market has experienced in other trading sessions lately. Blue chips closed down 74.16 points, or 0.8%, at 8990.96.
   TDThe Fed cut its key rate target by half a percentage point, to 1%. It also signaled that more cuts are a possibility, noting that "downside risks to growth remain."

The cut came on a day when central banks in China and Norway also pared interest rates. The European Central Bank and the Bank of England are widely expected to follow suit with rate cuts next week and the Bank of Japan has signaled that it may cut rates.

Rate-cut expectations helped fuel a stunning market rally on Tuesday. The Dow industrials surged 889 points in the second-biggest single-day point gain on record. That jump stirred fresh debate over whether a bottom has been reached.

"We believe that it may be too early and too risky to be bold," said Ben Pace, chief investment officer at Deutsche Bank Private Wealth Management in New York. "Investors who have cash to put to work may be prudent to resist the temptation to dramatically increase equity exposure until there is greater clarity."

Nonetheless, some investors are certain to take solace from the fact that stocks have managed to hold onto most of the big gains made Tuesday.

The broad Standard &Poor's 500-stock index fell 10.42 points, or 1.1%, to 930.09. The Nasdaq Composite Index rose 7.74 points, or 0.5%, to 1657.21. Some big-name tech stocks booked strong gains, including Apple, which was up 9.5% in late afternoon.

Energy stocks rose in response to a gain in the price of oil. Late afternoon, Exxon Mobil was up 2.8%, while Chevron gained 4.6%. Oil rose $4.77 per barrel, or 7.6%, to $67.50.

Some investors have been gradually adding to their stock holdings. Neil Hennessy, president of Hennessy Funds in Novato, Calif., said that his firm has been looking for big-name stocks that are adequately priced for the risks ahead. Mr. Hennessy said he's encouraged by the fact that blue chips as a group now cost less than a dollar for each dollar in expected sales over the next 12 months, contrary to the usual scenario in which there's a slight premium in the share prices.

"Things are in pretty good shape, as horrific as everyone feels," he said.

Mr. Hennessy acknowledges that the short-term swings in the market could remain harrowing. "We're due for a slowdown in the volatility, but who knows when that will actually come," he said.

E.S. Browning contributed to this article.

Write to Peter A. McKay at peter.mckay@wsj.com 
   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPDBen Pace | Neil Hennessy | WSJE   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument WSJO000020091007e4au00o6v  



 SEUS   HDThe Fed Worries For Main Street   BYBy Joseph Schuman    WC1,529 words   PD30 October 2008   ET12:00   SNThe Wall Street Journal (Online and Print)   SCWSJO   PGUS   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2008 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
   LPThe Morning Brief, a look at the day's biggest news, is emailed to subscribers by 7 a.m. every business day. Sign up for the e-mail here .

The Federal Reserve's latest bid to lower the cost of borrowed money marks the central bank's starkest recognition that the credit crunch it has battled for more than a year has laid siege to the broader economy.
   TDThe Federal Open Market Committee lowered its target for the federal funds rate, the overnight lending rate between banks, by half a percentage point to 1% -- the interest-rate nadir of 2003-2004 that followed the dot-com bust era and residual economic woes of 9/11. "The pace of economic activity appears to have slowed markedly ," the Fed said, blaming the decline in consumer spending, as well as weakening business spending and industrial production, as well as the dwindling prospects for U.S. exports at a time when overseas markets are hurting too. "Moreover, the intensification of financial market turmoil is likely to exert additional restraint on spending, partly by further reducing the ability of households and businesses to obtain credit," the Fed said. At its last regularly scheduled meeting in September , the FOMC kept rates unchanged and reported only "softening" consumer spending and the appearance of a recent slowing in economic growth, while its emphasis then was still worry about the "strains in financial markets."

And even on Oct. 8 , when the Fed made a half-point cut in concert with an easing of credit by the European Central Bank, Bank of England and others, the Fed said it was expecting the financial-market strain to hurt spending but hadn't really seen that happen yet. And while the FOMC was then still noting that inflation was high, and expressing belief that lower energy and commodity prices made for a diminished inflation risk, yesterday the committee seemed more secure in its expectations that such threats to prices would moderate in the coming quarters. Despite the sheer drop in interest rates over the past year and a host of Fed and other government moves to improve liquidity in the global and U.S. lending pool, the committee nevertheless fears "downside risks to growth remain" -- meaning it could cut interest rates again if it sees the need.

The question is how much yet another cheapening of borrowing costs will help, when the bigger problem hasn't been so much the cost of credit as a wariness among lenders that dried up the pool of available cash. The Treasury's plans for massive intervention -- boosting the reserve levels of banks through a series of policy moves and taxpayer aid to institutions and probably troubled homeowners -- may already be helping. And The Wall Street Journal says the steady reduction in Fed interest rates, if not directly addressing the credit problems, at least gives a cushion to the economy. "Without them, Fed officials believe , borrowing costs for households and businesses would be even higher," the paper says. Movement in the stock and bond markets suggest "investors were continuing to shed the extreme caution of recent weeks," the Journal adds. And it reports that the Fed's program to loosen the $1.45 trillion commercial-paper market  -- a traditionally safe arena used by businesses to fund their day-to-day operations, but one frozen by the credit crunch -- is helping to bring borrowing rates down there.

Once again, the Fed yesterday wasn't acting on its own. Central banks in China and Norway cut rates as well, and other central banks around the world are expected to do so. In Japan, Prime Minister Taro Aso today unveiled a stimulus package aimed at " bolstering the real Japanese economy  in the midst of the current global economic turmoil," including a huge wave of tax rebates and tax cuts and better loan guarantees for small and midsize businesses, Nikkei says. In Europe, the hawkish ECB is also nonetheless more worried about the real economy right now than inflation. The Fed showed yesterday that beyond the gyrations of the stock markets and Wall Street, it is pretty worried about Main Street. And in that respect, it has a lot of company.

* * *

Also of Note

Times of London: United Nations peacekeepers were braced for full-scale war in central Africa as Rwandan-backed rebels closed in on the Congolese city of Goma , sending government troops and civilians fleeing in panic. Western aid workers described scenes of mayhem in the streets as columns of government tanks and military vehicles streamed out of the city and panicking civilians fled for cover. Muddy roads were clogged with refugees fleeing into Goma after they had witnessed the retreat of government soldiers from the areas around their camps -- only to find that troops had deserted the city too.

Politico: Barack Obama took the unusual step of making the final pitch for his candidacy on a smoothly produced infomercial  that aired across network and cable television, a 30-minute broadcast that weaved together American iconography -- images of amber waves of grain, pickup trucks and American flags -- with portraits of iconic voters, testimonials from politicians and Google's CEO, footage of Obama speeches and direct appeals from the candidate. The ad cut to a live shot of Sen. Obama at a rally in Florida for the last two minutes, where he told an arena packed to the rafters that "the time for change has come."

Washington Post: Sen. John McCain sharpened his critique of Sen. Barack Obama's ability to serve as commander in chief, arguing that the Democratic nominee's economic policies would "undermine our national security." 

Los Angeles Times: Counting down to an election day expected to draw a record-shattering turnout, voting-rights watchdogs are sounding the alarm that a repeat of the Florida fiasco of 2000 could occur  in any of a dozen battleground states.

Women's Wear Daily: With North Carolina a key swing state in the presidential election, Democratic nominee Barack Obama has pledged, if elected, to support five key textile industry policy positions, including a monitoring program for Chinese apparel and textile imports. It was the most definitive statement Sen. Obama has made on trade , especially as it affects the apparel and textile industry, and ties into the broader agenda he has pushed during the long campaign of saving jobs and supporting the American manufacturing sector.

Financial Times: U.S. companies will need to inject more than $100 billion into their pension funds to cover market losses , putting them in a cash squeeze at a time when it is difficult to raise money. The cash payment, estimated by several pension industry executives, would be spread over this financial year and next year.

Detroit News: Private investors have shown interest in General Motors' proposed acquisition of Chrysler and may help finance the deal  if the U.S. government agrees to provide funds, sources close to the negotiations said. GM and Cerberus Capital Management, Chrysler's majority owner, seek as much as $10 billion in federal loans and other aid to finance a deal.

National Geographic: Recently identified electrical activity on Saturn's largest moon bolsters arguments that Titan is the kind of place that could harbor life . At a brisk -350 degrees Fahrenheit (-180 Celsius), Titan is currently much too cold to host anything close to life as we know it, scientists say, but a new study reports faint signs of a natural electric field in Titan's thick cloud cover that are similar to the energy radiated by lightning on Earth.

New York Times: Overlooking the verdant Valley of Elah, where the Bible says David toppled Goliath, archaeologists are unearthing a 3,000-year-old fortified city that could reshape views of the period when David ruled over the Israelites. Five lines on pottery uncovered here appear to be the oldest Hebrew text ever found and are likely to have a major impact on knowledge about the history of literacy and alphabet development . The five-acre site, with its fortifications, dwellings and multi-chambered entry gate, will also be a weapon in the contentious and often politicized debate over whether David and his capital, Jerusalem, were an important kingdom or a minor tribe, an issue that divides not only scholars but those seeking to support or delegitimize Zionism.

* * *

Quotes of the Day

"The more you send reassuring signals" by approving some countries for the loans with fewer strings " the more you send warnings about others ," former International Monetary Fund chief economist Simon Johnson tells The Wall Street Journal, about the IMF's new plan to offer as much as $100 billion in a new kind of loan to countries that are battered by the financial crisis, making available new cash to help ease the world credit crisis. Mr. Johnson notes that the new plan also puts the IMF in the position of deciding which countries can have money with few strings attached, and who can't.

Some links in this column are to sites that require a subscription or registration.

Write to Joseph Schuman at joseph.schuman@wsj.com 
   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPDThe Morning Brief   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument WSJO000020091007e4au00j4y  



 HDGLOBAL MARKETS-Dollar plunges, oil surges as rate cut expected   WC949 words   PD29 October 2008   ET04:41   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited   
   LP* Dollar slides, on track to biggest plunge in 13 years

* Oil surges more than 8 pct on weak dollar, inventories
   TD* Global stocks rally in anticipation of Fed rate cut

* Commodity prices surge as dollar falls

NEW YORK, Oct 29 (Reuters) - The U.S. dollar plunged on Wednesday as it headed toward its biggest one-day decline against major currencies in 13 years, driving up the price of oil more than 9 percent and sending other commodities sharply higher.

A rally in global stock markets after Wall Street's huge gains on Tuesday helped ease risk aversion and led investors to pare their dollar holdings. Expectations that the U.S. Federal Reserve will cut interest rates by at least a half percentage point later in the day also helped drive up stocks and pressure the dollar.

Leading European stock indexes closed up about 7 percent, led by banks and commodity stocks, following a 7.7 percent rise in Japanese stocks.

The yen rallied, retracing steep losses a day earlier, as global recession fears persisted despite firmer sentiment in equity markets around the world.

Oil surged to above $68 a barrel as a weaker dollar and weekly U.S. government fuel inventory data showed crude stocks rose less than expected last week and gasoline supplies fell unexpectedly.

Commodity prices soared on the weaker dollar. Copper surged nearly 8 percent at one point, lifting other industrial metals, while gold jumped nearly 4 percent in a rally that boosted silver nearly 10 percent.

U.S. equity markets struggled to rally after the Dow surged almost 11 percent on Tuesday in its second-biggest point gain on record. But reassuring news about merger talks between troubled automakers General Motors and Chrysler, and optimism the Fed will slash interest rates lifted U.S. stocks at midday.

The Fed is due to announce its rate decision at around 2:15 p.m. (1815 GMT), at the close of its two-day policy meeting.

On the automaker front, according to sources familiar with the matter, major issues have been resolved in GM talks with private equity firm Cerberus Capital, owner of Chrysler. GM shares jumped nearly 9 percent to $6.81 on the New York Stock Exchange.

Before 1 p.m., the Dow Jones industrial average was up 69.69 points, or 0.77 percent, at 9,134.81. The Standard & Poor's 500 Index was up 6.48 points, or 0.69 percent, at 946.99. The Nasdaq Composite Index was up 19.83 points, or 1.20 percent, at 1,669.30.

Basic resources, insurance and banking stocks led the European stock rally. The pan-European FTSEurofirst 300 jumped 7.51 percent to 897.06 points, and Britain's FTSE 100 rose 8.1 percent to 4,242.54.

Basic resource providers were strong gainers as the sector added 12.3 percent the pan-European index, with Anglo American climbing 20.9 percent, while Arcelormittal and Salzgitter both added about 12 percent.

Insurers were also in demand, led by Allianz SE, which added 26 percent, and Old Mutual, which raced ahead 30 percent to top the sector.

U.S. Treasury debt prices edged up as bond investors bet the Federal Reserve will deliver a hefty interest rate cut.

The Fed is widely expected to cut U.S. rates by at least half a percentage point to 1 percent, which would be the lowest level since June 2004.

A half percentage point reduction, however, might not bolster U.S. government debt prices much, some said.

"I think that Treasuries are going to find it tough (to rally) since if the Fed drops by 50 basis points like everyone is expecting, that doesn't leave them much more room to maneuver," said Kevin Giddis, managing director of fixed income/head fixed income trader with Morgan Keegan in Memphis, Tennessee.

Besides the Fed, traders and analysts anticipate the European Central Bank and the Bank of Japan will trim rates after China and Norway did so on Wednesday to combat the crisis in financial markets and a faltering global economy.

"We're seeing a bit of a reversal of the deleveraging process because of the rise in global equities and thus we're seeing the dollar trading lower," said Ken Landon, a currency strategist, at JP Morgan Chase in New York.

U.S. Treasury debt prices were mixed. The benchmark 10-year U.S. Treasury note rose 4/32 in price to yield 3.83 percent, and the 2-year U.S. Treasury note fell 5/32 in price to yield 1.56 percent.

The dollar was down against a basket of major currencies, with the U.S. Dollar Index off 1.97 percent at 84.724.

The euro rose 1.55 percent at $1.291, while against the yen, the dollar fell 1.04 percent at 97.71.

U.S. light sweet crude oil rose $5.73 to $68.46 a barrel.

Spot gold prices rose $8.80 to $753.10 an ounce.

Japan's Nikkei stock index ended up 7.7 percent after plumbing its lowest level since 1982 on Tuesday. The Nikkei has fallen as much as 40 percent in the past month.

Asia-Pacific stocks outside Japan climbed 2.3 percent after touching a 4-year low on Tuesday, according to an MSCI index. (Reporting by Ellis Mnyandu, Gertrude Chavez-Dreyfuss, John Parry and Robert Gibbons in New York, Jan Harvey in London and Tyler Sitte in Frankfurt; Writing by Herbert Lash; Editing by Leslie Adler)
   RFMARKETS-GLOBAL (WRAPUP 7)|LANGEN|AFA|CSA|LBY|RWSA|RWS|REULB|GNS|ABX|BNX|SXNA   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | m15 : Derivative Securities | mcroil : Crude Oil Markets | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | m14 : Commodity Markets | m143 : Energy Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCMKTS/GLOB   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020081029e4at00024  



 HDWorld stocks rally as investors anticipate US rate cut, buy up battered shares   BYBy PAN PYLAS      CRAP Business Writer   WC1,022 words   PD28 October 2008   ET22:51   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPLONDON (AP) - World stock markets rallied strongly on Tuesday as investors anticipating a cut in U.S. interest rates swooped in to buy shares that had been pummeled just a day earlier.

The day's trading in many ways mirrored Monday. In Asia, for example, Hong Kong's Hang Seng index rose a whopping 14.4 percent -- its biggest gain in 11 years -- a day after plunging more than 12 percent.
   TDThe global rally was capped by a stunning late-session surge on Wall Street, where the Dow industrials finished up 889.35, or 10.88 percent, to 9,065.12. The Dow had dropped 500 points in the previous two sessions.

While there was no single, overriding factor to fuel the stock surge, some market watchers speculated that the recent selling spree was overdone.

"The market can't fall forever," said Francis Lun, general manager of Fulbright Securities Ltd. in Hong Kong.

Early strong gains in the Dow and in Asia, where Japan's Nikkei index recovered from 26-year lows, pushed Europe's indexes even higher. But then weak U.S. economic data took their toll.

The FTSE 100 index of leading British shares closed 73.79 points, or 1.9 percent, higher at 3,926.38.

The CAC-40 index of leading French shares was up 47.57 points, or 1.6 percent, at 3,114.92, while Germany's DAX was 488.81 points, or 11.3 percent, higher at 4,823.45 as the share price of Volkswagen AG almost doubled again.

European stocks were somewhat tempered by the Conference Board's monthly consumer confidence index that fueled concerns about the likely depth of the expected recession in the U.S. The Conference Board said its main index fell to 38.0 in October, its lowest since the survey started running 40 years ago and sharply down from September's 61.4.

The FTSE was helped by a 5.4 percent rise in BP PLC's share price after the oil giant revealed an 83-percent increase in net profit in the three months from July to September to $8.05 billion, while the DAX was lifted disproportionately by another 97 percent rise in Volkswagen shares, which came on top of Monday's near 150 percent rise.

VW's gains have come after Sunday's announcement from Porsche that it had increased its stake in the company to 42.6 percent as part of its goal to take a majority stake. It also said it held an additional 31.5 percent in cash-settled options, that would give it indirect control of 74.1 percent of VW shares.

Analysts speculated that Porsche's announcement forced hedge funds to unwind positions after they had bet on VW's shares falling, especially as the state of Lower Saxony owns just over 20 percent of VW stock. That means there's only around 5 percent of free-floating VW stock available.

The gains Tuesday come just as the U.S. Federal Reserve begins its two-day interest rate deliberations. Analysts say the markets appear to have priced in a half-percentage point cut in the Fed's benchmark rate Wednesday to a four-year low of 1.00 percent.

There's even speculation that the Fed will cut by three-quarters of a percentage point especially in the wake of the dire consumer confidence data.

Earlier, most Asian stock markets rebounded after several days of steep declines as investors snapped up beaten down shares like Honda, Samsung and HSBC.

Japan's benchmark Nikkei 225 index surged 459.02 points, or 6.4 percent, to 7,621.92 after early falling to fresh 26-year lows.

The Nikkei was helped by the yen's depreciation against the U.S. dollar. The dollar, which had fallen to a 13-year low against the yen on Friday, rose 3.2 percent to 95.96 yen. Traders remain on guard over possible moves by Japanese authorities to intervene in the market to cap the yen's strength after Sunday's G7 statement warning about excess yen volatility.

A weaker yen encouraged traders to buy exporters whose export potential are limited by a surging currency. Honda Motor Co. surged 14 percent, Toyota Motor Corp. jumped 7.8 percent and Sony Corp. rose 9.6 percent.

Hong Kong's Hang Seng index leaped 14.4 percent to 12,596.29. South Korea's Kospi jumped 5.6 percent to 999.16, helped along by the South Korean central bank's interest rate cut on Monday.

Even Shanghai's main index, which had fallen 6 percent earlier, turned positive in the afternoon.

Australia's key stock measure closed down 0.4 percent, though sharply pared earlier losses. Singapore's market index, also down more than 5 percent in morning trading, turned green in afternoon trading.

In Latin America, Brazilian stocks were up after being battered for weeks on concerns that a global slowdown would throttle the region's largest economy. Brazil's Ibovespa index jumped 13 percent to close at 33,387. The nation's currency, the real, rose against the U.S. dollar.

The Mexican stock market also gained strongly Tuesday, with the main IPC index up 10 percent to 18,633.

Chile's IPSA was up 1.8 percent to 2,390 and Colombia's IGBC index was gaining 3 percent to 6,657.

Elsewhere, light sweet crude for December delivery fell 49 cents to settle at $62.73 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange, the lowest closing price since May 15, 2007.

The euro rose to $1.2597 from $1.2522 late Monday, while the British pound gained to $1.5775 from $1.5628.

----

Associated Press writers Kelly Olsen in Soeul, Shino Yuasa in Tokyo and Malcolm Foster in Bangkok contributed to this report
   RF7   ARTimage/jpeg: 20909053-d8b3-4f86-a6e1-697d0dffd93f | image/jpeg: 67ea7224-2c73-4a9e-9e61-67054bf32c6a | image/jpeg: f0709eee-2514-4ad8-b7b6-9dbdb41eac94 | image/jpeg: 8b541716-c623-4a7b-9584-1eb5f1d4964e      NSm11 : Equity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | e1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REuk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | hkong : Hong Kong | asiaz : Asia | china : China | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe   IPCtagpf1apon | sel----- | catf | 1320   IPDFinancial/Business | World Markets | D943OKK02   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020081028e4as001xj  



 HDDJ Canada Morning: C$ Markedly Higher As USD Sells Off Broadly   WC776 words   PD29 October 2008   ET15:04   SNDow Jones Institutional News   SCDJDN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright  2008, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.  
   LPTORONTO (Dow Jones)--The Canadian dollar is markedly higher Wednesday morning as the U.S. dollar sells off broadly, Canadian stocks extend their massive gains from Tuesday, and crude oil futures climb.

Canadian bonds are narrowly mixed, with the long end slumping but the front end moving higher with U.S. Treasurys in advance of an expected interest rate cut from the U.S. Federal Reserve later in the session.
   TDThe U.S. dollar was trading at C$1.2465 at 9:57 a.m. EDT (1357 GMT), from C$1.2598 at 8:00 a.m. EDT (1200 GMT) and C$1.2809 late Tuesday.

From a high at C$1.2867 in overnight trading, the U.S. dollar began a sustained decline against its Canadian counterpart, touching a low of C$1.2545 before rebounding modestly, and then slumping lower again.

A combination of Tuesday's gains in equities, and the associated selloff in the U.S. dollar, as well as the gains in crude oil futures.

"The three are all so closely linked together, it's difficult to dissociate cause from effect," said Adam Cole, head of currency strategy with RBC Capital Markets in London.

But the continued fragility of equity markets and the possibility of another flare up of risk aversion suggests the Canadian dollar remains susceptible to another pull back.

"That has to be a vulnerability still, that the equity markets in particular, although they are looking better this week, are still very, very fragile," said RBC's Cole.

The Canadian dollar was sharply outperforming the euro, the yen and other currencies Wednesday morning.

The key development for asset markets on Wednesday will be the conclusion of the Fed's two-day open market committee meeting and the following rate decision by the U.S. central bank.

While the Fed is widely expected to cut interest rates by some degree, if its actions or words are deemed insufficient by markets, equities and other riskier assets could sell off again, leaving the Canadian dollar in jeopardy of further selling pressure.

"If the Fed doesn't do or say the right thing, if equities are looking vulnerable, than that will leave (the Canadian dollar) looking vulnerable," Cole said.

"I think it's still too soon to conclude that that is the full extent of the selloff in Canada," he added.

A report from BMO Capital Markets said the U.S. dollar still likely needs to take out the C$1.2300 area to confirm a deeper retracement.

"Barring that, the pair could resume its upward march again with the 1.34/35 area the potential target. Going into month end, given the ongoing deleveraging, the selloff in the TSX, and C$ the early suggestions for month end activity is to buy USD/CAD," Scotia says.

"Longer term, a return of more normal credit markets should see USDCAD move lower probably back towards the 1.07 - 1.10 area," it adds.

In domestic data Wednesday, Canadian government employment offices received a preliminary, seasonally adjusted 222,900 new and renewal claims for unemployment insurance benefits in August, up 2.2% from July and up 6.2% from a year earlier, Statistics Canada said.

An estimated 487,500 Canadians received regular unemployment insurance benefits in August, up 0.2% from July and up 2.2% from August 2007.

Canadian average weekly earnings rose 2.8% year-on-year to a seasonally adjusted C$792.56 in August, and rose 0.2% from July, Statistics Canada said.

Canadian bonds are mixed in midmorning trading, with shorter-dated issues edging higher along with their U.S. counterparts as markets anticipate Fed easing, while longer-dated maturities sell off somewhat.

The 10-year bond is yielding 3.70%, from 3.66% Tuesday.

The two-year bond is yielding 2.08%, from 2.10%.

These are the exchange rates at 9:57 a.m. EDT (1357 GMT), 8:00 a.m. EDT (1200 GMT), and late Tuesday. 


   USD/CAD     1.2465     1.2598     1.2809 
   EUR/CAD     1.5996     1.6111     1.6239 
   CAD/JPY      77.86      77.22      76.21 

-By Don Curren; Dow Jones Newswires;416-306-2020; don.curren@dowjones.com

Click here to go to Dow Jones NewsPlus, a web front page of today's most important business and market news, analysis and commentary: http://www.djnewsplus.com/al?rnd=nmC%2FAKYmgJGLUOTz%2FlV6rA%3D%3D  . You can use this link on the day this article is published and the following day.

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

October 29, 2008 10:04 ET (14:04 GMT)
   NSmntdbt : National Government Debt/Bond Markets | e1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REcana : Canada | usa : United States | namz : North America   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument DJDN000020090731e4at0o0io  



 HDWSJ(10/29) Ahead Of The Tape   WC625 words   PD29 October 2008   ET00:58   SNDow Jones Institutional News   SCDJDN   PGC1   LAEnglish   CYCopyright  2008, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.   
   LP
   (From THE WALL STREET JOURNAL) 
   By Mark Gongloff 

Fed Rate Cut
   TDMeans Little

To Markets

The Fed is about to give financial markets a placebo.

Federal Reserve policy makers Wednesday are widely expected to cut their target for the federal-funds rate, an overnight bank-lending rate, to 1% from 1.5%, back to its historic lows of 2003 and 2004.

Such low rates should be rocket fuel for stocks, boosting economic growth and corporate profits. Lower Fed rates can help corporate bonds, too, though they typically hurt Treasurys, as investors worry about the potential for inflation.

This time, however, cutting the rate target has all the import of snipping the ribbon on a new construction project.

The fed-funds rate already is well below the Fed's target and has been for most of the past month. Since the Fed cut its target to 1.5% on Oct. 8, the interest rate has traded above that level only once and has been below it the rest of the time. On several days, it has traded below 1%.

The Fed manipulates the fed-funds rate by buying and selling bonds and other securities. Lately, these open-market operations have been on steroids, and the moves, along with some technical factors, have caused the Fed to temporarily lose full control of the funds rate.

Fortunately, that doesn't matter much now. With the world shedding debt and parking cash, money supply is draining from the system, and the Fed's extraordinary efforts are just enough to replace it.

"When a water system fails, the first thing to do is to re-establish pressure in the water lines," says Bruce McCain, chief investment strategist at Key Private Bank, which is part of KeyCorp.

The Fed has little choice but to cut rates Wednesday lest it disappoint market expectations. But until the demand for money starts to rise again in the broader economy, for example when lending picks up, rate cuts will have little lasting effect on markets.

Legg's Results Likely

To Be Big Comedown

Baltimore money manager Legg Mason is hobbled, its stock down 84% in the past year. At its flagship stock mutual fund, Bill Miller's $7.6 billion Legg Mason Value Trust, returns are down 56% this year through Monday, due to big stakes in the likes of Freddie Mac and Merrill Lynch . Legg's biggest bond offering, the $11.8 billion Western Asset Core Plus Bond Fund, is down 13% this year, or 12 percentage points behind its benchmark, because of bad corporate-bond and mortgage bets.

Analysts expect Legg to post a four cent per-share loss when it reports quarterly results Wednesday. That would be smaller than the losses logged in the past two quarters, but still a big come-down from the year-earlier period's $1.23 in per-share profit.

Investors also are fretting over Legg's structured-investment vehicle, or SIV, holdings in its money-market funds -- distressed securities that many other fund firms are also struggling with. Legg still has $3.7 billion in such assets. It has resisted unloading them at fire-sale prices. Moody's recently downgraded Legg over such issues, and Goldman Sachs says Legg is now "hamstrung" by SIV woes.

-- Diya Gullapalli

---

Please send questions and comments to tape@wsj.com

Click here to go to Dow Jones NewsPlus, a web front page of today's most important business and market news, analysis and commentary: http://www.djnewsplus.com/al?rnd=h4DiqbZI5m8YiTabAal5Ag%3D%3D  . You can use this link on the day this article is published and the following day.

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

October 28, 2008 19:58 ET (23:58 GMT)
   NSc13 : Regulation/Government Policy | ecat : Economic News | effund : Interbank Rate | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e12 : Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument DJDN000020090731e4as0ng8l  



 HDUS soy futures rally ahead of  interest rate  cut   WC346 words   PD29 October 2008   ET15:13   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited   
   LPCHICAGO, Oct 29 (Reuters) - U.S. soy futures on the Chicago Board of Trade rose on Wednesday amid a broad-based rally in commodities on hopes of a fresh round of monetary easing from central banks worldwide, traders said.

* November soybeans <SX8> ended 58-1/2 cents higher at $9.37-1/4 a bushel, above its 20-day moving average of $9.20-1/4.
   TD* December soymeal <SMZ8> closed $16.20 per ton up at $283; December soyoil <BOZ8> ended 2.45 cent per lb up at 34.33 cents.

* Trading limits do not expand for the next session.

* Crude oil, gold, corn all surged higher while the dollar weakened.

* The Reuters-Jefferies CRB Index <.CRB>, an index of 19 futures contracts, saw its biggest daily percentage gain ever.

* The jump came as China cut its interest rates for the third time in six weeks, prompting speculation that central banks would take coordinated action on rates.

* Dow industrials were up about 75 points by the CBOT close as traders awaited a decision by the U.S. Federal Reserve on rates. The Dow ended down 74 points.

* After the CBOT close, the Fed made the expected half-percentage point cut in interest rates by 50 basis points to 1.0 percent.

* Commodity funds bought 5,000 soybean contracts, 2,000 soymeal and 3,000 soyoil - traders

* Favorable weather for corn/soy harvest in the U.S. Midwest over the next 5-7 days. After that rains return to western belt - forecaster. [ID:nN29478838]

* Midwest spot basis bids for soybeans held firm early Wednesday, underpinned by quiet farmer sales.

* Malaysian palm oil ends lower after Indonesia ends export tax. [ID:nJAK126656]

* Indonesia palm oil 0 percent export tax until year-end to shore up palm oil exports. [ID:nJAK353648]

* Iran tenders to buy soyoil and sunflower oil. [ID:nLT540845]

* For a narrative report, click on [GRA/]. (Reporting by Christine Stebbins; editing by Jim Marshall)
   RFMARKETS-SOYBEANS-CBOT (UPDATE 1)|LANGEN|ABN|C|GRO|MTL|SOF   NSgvagd : Agriculture Department | m15 : Derivative Securities | medoil : Edible Oils Markets | mgrfds : Meals/Feeds Markets | e1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | gvexe : Executive Branch | m14 : Commodity Markets | m141 : Agricultural Commodity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mgroil : Grains/Edible Oils Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCGRA | OILS | MEAL | DRV | LIV | USDA | AGRI | COM | SOY/C   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020081029e4at001xu  



 HDUPDATE 5-U.S. Fed cuts rates by half point to combat crisis   WC730 words   PD29 October 2008   ET15:38   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited   
   LP* Fed cuts interest rates half-point to 1 percent

* Risk of more weakness seen; inflation expected to ease
   TD* Stocks see-saw, end down; Dollar drop biggest since 1985

* Fed opens FX swaps with Brazil, Korea, Mexico, Singapore (Updates markets)

By Mark Felsenthal

WASHINGTON, Oct 29 (Reuters) - The Federal Reserve cut U.S. interest rates by a half-percentage point on Wednesday to try to stave off a prolonged recession, and left the door open to further reductions if needed.

The Fed's unanimous decision takes its target for overnight bank lending to 1.0 percent, the lowest since June 2004. Wall Street was united believing the Fed would lower rates, although views were split on the likely size of the move.

"The pace of economic activity appears to have slowed markedly, owing importantly to a decline in consumer expenditures," the Fed said. "Moreover, the intensification of financial market turmoil is likely to exert additional restraint on spending."

The Fed has fought the credit crisis with a series of measures aimed at pumping liquid funds into markets that had become largely frozen and risk averse. Policy-makers highlighted those steps in their statement and said they should help "over time."

Nonetheless, they concluded that "downside risks to growth remain," keeping in play the option of further rate cuts.

The Fed also toned down its language on inflation, saying only that it expected it to moderate in coming quarters. After an emergency interest rate cut earlier this month the Fed had suggested it still saw some risk inflation could flare.

"The Fed appears to have buried its upside inflation risks," Michael Gregory, an economist with BMO Capital Markets in Toronto, wrote to clients. "Bottom line: No upside inflation risk + persistent downside growth risk = a policy bias to ease further."

Fears of an acute recession pushed U.S. stock prices down to five year lows this month. Stocks see-sawed after the Fed's move but ended lower as a news report raised questions about General Electric's earnings outlook, taking the wind out of a late rally.

The U.S. dollar posted its biggest one-day drop in 23 years, while prices for U.S. government bonds were little changed.

AGGRESSIVE MOVES

The U.S. central bank has cut benchmark overnight rates from 5.25 percent in nine steps over the past 13 months to counter a financial crisis that started with the collapse of the U.S. mortgage market and spread around the world.

China also lowered interest rates on Wednesday, and the Bank of Japan, European Central Bank and Bank of England are all expected to follow suit in coming days.

Shortly after announcing its decision, the Fed said it had approved currency swap lines with central banks in Brazil, Mexico, South Korea and Singapore to help those countries combat the credit crunch by ensuring they had access to U.S. dollars. It now has swap lines with 13 central banks.

In addition to cutting the overnight federal funds rate, the U.S. central bank trimmed the discount rate it charges banks for overnight loans to 1.25 percent from 1.75 percent.

U.S. banks began to lower the prime rate they charge their best customers to 4.0 percent from 4.5 percent after the Fed's announcement.

While the Fed's steps to alleviate credit market strains have begun to bear some fruit, U.S. businesses and consumers looking ahead see an increasingly gloomy outlook.

The U.S. labor market has shed jobs for nine consecutive months, industrial production has tumbled and consumer confidence has hit a record low.

Economists expect a report on gross domestic product on Thursday to show the U.S. economy contracted at an annualized 0.5 percent rate in the third quarter, and many expect GDP to continue to shrink into next year.

"The expectation is (for) a long and deep recession in the U.S. that will extend through most of 2009," Allen Sinai, chief economist for Decision Economics, told a conference on Monday.

"The previous longest post-World War II economic downturns were 16 months each in 1973-75 and 1981-82. This one probably will be longer."
   RFUSA-FED/ (UPDATE 5)|LANGEN|ABX|BNX|AFA|CSA|LBY|RWSA|RWS|REULB|GNS|SXNA   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | gpol : Domestic Politics | ntop : Dow Jones/Reuters Top Wire News | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | ncat : Content Types   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCFED | CEN | MCE | GVD | DBT | FRX | INT | NEWS | WASH | PLCY | MMT | POL | EMBG:DBT | EMBG:PLCY | embargokeyE1R1:1   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020081029e4at001zj  



 HDUPDATE 2-Fed's Yellen-US economy worrisome, rates could fall   BYBy Jim Christie      WC689 words   PD30 October 2008   ET20:12   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited   
   LP(Adds comments from Q&A)

BERKELEY, California, Oct 30 (Reuters) - Trends in the U.S. economy are "deeply worrisome" at a time when damage from the credit crunch has outpaced the Federal Reserve's huge interest rate cuts, a top Fed policy-maker said on Thursday.
   TDJanet Yellen, president of the San Francisco Fed, said the U.S. central bank's benchmark lending rate, which has already been cut in response to an economy plunging toward recession, could "potentially ... go a little lower" than the current 1.0 percent.

Yellen was the first Fed official to speak after Thursday's news that the U.S. economy had shrunk by 0.3 percent in the third quarter, and she suggested the worst was yet to come.

"For the fourth quarter, it appears likely that the economy is contracting significantly," she said at a University of California symposium in Berkeley, California.

"The mortgage meltdown is far from over (and) the economy and financial markets are still reeling from it."

Most private-sector borrowing rates are higher now than at the start of the financial crisis in August 2007, despite "some of the most momentous steps in decades" from the Fed, she noted.

"I don't mean to imply that the rate cuts did no good; borrowing rates in my view would be substantially higher absent the reduction in our base lending rate," said Yellen, who will vote on the Federal Open Market Committee in 2008 in 2009.

The FOMC on Wednesday voted to cut the benchmark federal funds rate by a half percentage point to 1.00 percent, the lowest since June 2004. The Fed has cut rates by 4.25 percentage points since September 2007.

Financial markets point to another cut at the December FOMC meeting, to 0.75 percent or even lower.

Yellen said the Fed would not need to push rates to zero given the dramatic pace at which it is expanding its balance sheet.

The central bank appears to have kicked off a process known as "quantitative easing," flooding the market with liquidity and allowing the federal funds rate to trade in the interbank market below the announced target rate.

The Fed's asset base could hit close to $3 trillion by year end against about $800 billion a year ago, Yellen said.

VICIOUS CYCLE IN FULL SWING

Yellen has warned for months about a vicious cycle between reduced credit availability, weakened financial institutions, and the broader economy, and said the "adverse feedback loop" is now in full swing.

"A greatly reduced flow of credit in the economy ... is the major factor responsible for the economic downturn that now is under way," she said.

For consumers, though, the credit problem is just one of "several negative factors" now at work, including a 9-month streak of lower monthly payroll employment, flat personal incomes and lower stock markets and housing values.

The Fed's steps to support credit markets are "extremely constructive," and will thaw credit flows over time, she said, citing "very tentative signs of an easing of stress in money markets."

But with a long way to go before the credit crunch is totally alleviated, other types of policies, including programs that give direct assistance to homeowners to stem the flow of foreclosures, are worth pursuing, Yellen said.

"The bottom is not yet in sight" for falling house prices or housing starts, she said, adding that although prices need to correct to bring buyers back into the market, "we are in danger of over-correction."

"By mitigating foreclosure sales at fire-sale prices, these programs may also support housing prices more generally and serve to limit the credit losses that have done so much damage to the financial system," she said.

Yellen said it also "certainly makes sense" for Congress to act on broader fiscal policy measures at this point to shore up the economy.

(Writing by Ros Krasny)
   RFUSA-FED/YELLEN (UPDATE 2)|LANGEN|C|D|E|M|O|U|MTL|GRO|SOF|OIL|ABN|MNI|DNP   INicre : Construction/Real Estate   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | ntop : Dow Jones/Reuters Top Wire News | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types   REusa : United States | usca : California | namz : North America | usw : Western U.S.   IPCMCE | FED | CEN | PLCY | INT | GVD | DBT | REA | REAM | BNK | FIN | FINS | MMT | NEWS | EMBG:DBT | EMBG:PLCY | embargokeyE1E1E1R1:2   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020081030e4au002hv  



 HDUPDATE 12-Oil up 7 pct on weak dollar, U.S. Fed rate cut   WC535 words   PD29 October 2008   ET01:20   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited   
   LP* U.S. Fed cuts interest rate half a percentage point

* Dollar slides, world stock markets gain
   TD* U.S. crude inventories rise, gasoline down (Adds post-settlement price action in paragraph four, updates stock market action)

By Chris Baldwin

NEW YORK, Oct 29 (Reuters) - Oil jumped more than 7 percent percent on Wednesday as the dollar fell after the Federal Reserve cut U.S. interest rates.

The Fed cut interest rates half a percentage point, taking its target for overnight bank lending to 1 percent, the lowest since 2004.

European and Asian stock markets ended higher while U.S. stocks gyrated in highly volatile trade after the rate cut, amid signs the myriad central bank and government efforts to shore up credit markets were starting to work.

U.S. crude rose $4.77, or 7.6 percent, at $67.50 a barrel, then rose further to hit $68.28 in post-settlement trade.

London Brent crude settled up $5.18 a barrel at $65.47.

"I don't think it has a direct impact on oil demand, I don't expect it to put more cars on the road or make the coming winter colder so I'm not really looking for a direct impact on petroleum use," said Tim Evans, energy analyst for Citi Futures.

"What it may do is perhaps weaken the US dollar, perhaps support the stock market, and those would be supportive factors for oil prices."

The global financial crisis has hit oil demand. Crude prices have tumbled from record highs over $147 a barrel struck in July after investors poured cash into oil and other commodities as a hedge against inflation and the slumping greenback.

The dollar extended losses against the euro on Wednesday after U.S. stocks rallied following the Fed's rate cut.

U.S. INVENTORIES

U.S. crude inventories last week rose 500,000 barrels, according to the U.S. Energy Information Administration, less than the 1.4-million-barrel gain analysts had expected.

Distillate stocks rose 2.3 million barrels -- above the 800,000-barrel increase forecast by analysts, while gasoline stocks fell by 1.5 million barrels compared with analysts expectations of a 1.2-million-barrel build.

Gasoline demand continued to fall, down 3.4 percent over the past four weeks versus the year-ago period, while total product demand was down 7.8 percent for the same period.

Some OPEC members have said the producer group could cut oil production again to help support prices, after agreeing to a 1.5-million-barrel-per-day (bpd) reduction last week.

"If there is a surplus in the market, if nobody needs the production, then a decision might be taken," Kuwait Oil Minister Mohammad al-Olaim told reporters.

Venezuela would back an additional OPEC production cut, possibly of 1 million barrels per day, if it were necessary to stabilize crude oil prices, President Hugo Chavez said on Tuesday. (Additional reporting by Jane Merriman in London and Maryelle Demongeot in Singapore; Editing by David Gregorio)
   RFMARKETS-OIL (UPDATE 12)|LANGEN|AFA|CSA|LBY|RWSA|RWS|REULB|GNS|ABX|BNX|SXNA   NSntop : Dow Jones/Reuters Top Wire News | e1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types   REeurz : Europe | usa : United States | namz : North America   IPCO/R | O/L | CRU | ENR | PROD | NEWS | COM | NRG   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020081029e4at0000q  



 HDU.S. Fed cuts key rate by half point to 1 percent   WC177 words   PD29 October 2008   ET19:18   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited   
   LPWASHINGTON, Oct 29 (Reuters) - The U.S. Federal Reserve cut a key interest rate by a hefty half-percentage point on Wednesday to prevent a widening credit crisis from tipping the United States into a deep and prolonged recession.

The Fed's decision takes its target for overnight bank lending to 1 percent, the lowest since June 2004. Wall Street was united in the opinion the Fed would lower rates, although views were split on the likely size of the move.
   TDThe U.S. central bank has cut benchmark overnight rates from 5.25 percent in nine steps over the past 13 months to counter a financial storm that started with the collapse of the U.S. mortgage market and spread around the world. (Reporting by Mark Felsenthal and David Lawder)
   RFUSA-FED/RATES (URGENT)|LANGEN|C|D|E|M|O|U|MTL|GRO|SOF|OIL|G|RBN|AFA|CSA|LBY|RWSA|RWS|REULB|GNS|ABX|BNX|CANT|UKI|Z|J|MNI   NSe1122 : Mortgage Applications/Refinancing | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | ntop : Dow Jones/Reuters Top Wire News | e1202 : Interest Rates | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCWASH | FED | CEN | MCE | NEWS | INT | MMT | DBT | PLCY | GVD | STX | FRX | MTG | ECI | EMBG:DBT | EMBG:PLCY | embargokeyE1R1:1   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020081029e4at002ci  



 HDUS RATE FUTURES-Bracing for another rate cut in December   BYBy Ros Krasny      WC394 words   PD29 October 2008   ET19:26   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited   
   LP(Adds details, analyst comments, byline)

CHICAGO, Oct 29 (Reuters) - Financial dealers look for the Federal Reserve to continue lowering benchmark interest rates in the months ahead given a downbeat economic outlook from the Fed's October meeting on Wednesday.
   TDU.S. short-term interest rate futures rose on news that the Fed, at the conclusion of its two-day policy meeting, lowered rates by half a percentage point, to 1.0 percent, as the market had widely expected.

Commentary from the Federal Open Market Committee about "downside risks to growth" suggested the central bank does not see its rate-cutting work as over now that rates are at the lowest since 2004.

The FOMC said that the pace of economic activity has "slowed markedly" as consumer spending falls, and that financial market turmoil could make things worse by stifling access to credit by households and businesses.

"We view this as the first entirely realistic assessment from the Fed in this whole cycle," said Ian Shepherdson, chief U.S. economist at High Frequency Economics in Valhalla, New York. "The door is open to further easing."

Futures contract prices reflect another quarter-point rate cut at the December FOMC meeting, which would take the federal funds rate to 0.75 percent for the first time since 1958, with an outside chance that rates could be cut to 0.50 percent.

Analysts said the Fed is now working with all guns blazing as cuts to lending rates are complemented by an array of measures that has doubled the Fed's balance sheet over a matter of weeks.

In that vein, futures reflect expectations that the effective fed funds rate traded in the interbank market will remain below the Fed's target rate.

Fed funds traded down to 0.25 percent on Wednesday, and have averaged 0.74 percent over the past ten days.

"History will likely view the true story of this easing cycle being as much about the Fed's version of a Bank of Japan-style quantitative ease, as it is about the myriad acronym-laced targeted lending facilities," said Max Bublitz, chief strategist at SCM Advisors LLC in San Francisco.

(Reporting by Ros Krasny)
   RFMARKETS-RATEFUTURES-FOMC (UPDATE 1)|LANGEN|ABN|M|D|E|RBN|U|RNP|DNP   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | e1202 : Interest Rates | m15 : Derivative Securities | ntop : Dow Jones/Reuters Top Wire News | ecat : Economic News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCFED | CEN | MCE | PLCY | INT | GVD | DBT | DRV | MMT | NEWS | STIR   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020081029e4at002cw  



 HDMARKETS/BONDS-OUTLOOK   WC491 words   PD29 October 2008   ET22:25   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited   
   LPRepeating for additional subscribers.

* Weak Q3 GDP data should reinforce recession worries
   TD* More Fed rate cuts may not be enough to revive economy

* Weekly data on jobless claims on tap

By Richard Leong

NEW YORK, Oct 29 (Reuters) - Safe-haven demand for U.S. Treasuries could resume on Thursday, if data were to show economic contraction in the third quarter, reinforcing fears of a deep, protracted recession.

The Federal Reserve offered a grim economic outlook on Wednesday and delivered a widely expected half percentage point interest rate cut in a bid to revive an ailing credit market that may have tipped the United States into recession.

The government's first snapshot of third-quarter U.S. gross domestic product was expected to show a 0.5 percent decline, compared with a 2.8 percent increase in the second quarter, according to analysts recently polled by Reuters. For more, see

With fears of the economic downturn lasting well into next year, the Fed may have to lower rates further.

"I think if things get worse, they may lower (rates) again," Andrew Richman, fixed income strategist at SunTrust Private Wealth Management in Palm Beach, Florida, said on Wednesday.

Adding to worries of a worsening economy could be weekly figures on jobless claims, which have already been running at recessionary levels, according to analysts.

The government will release its advance third-quarter GDP and jobless claims data at 8:30 a.m. EDT (1230 GMT) on Thursday.

U.S. stocks rallied briefly late Wednesday after the Fed's cut rates for a second time this month and sparked a sell-off in Treasuries. But the equity rise was short-lived and safe-haven bids for bonds emerged.

The price on benchmark 10-year Treasury notes was flat at 101-8/32, rebounding from session lows. Their yield, which moves inversely to price, ended near 3.85 percent.

Meanwhile, there is no clear consensus that more rate cuts by the Fed and other central banks could further improve credit and economic conditions. In recent weeks, monetary authorities have undertaken unprecedented steps to solve the global financial crisis.

"The rates are low enough but there is just not enough lending," said Richman. Fed's latest rate cut "is a confidence builder more than anything else given all the extraordinary measures they have undertaken," he said.

There have been signs of increased credit supply as a result of various government programs which essentially guarantee investments like commercial paper and bank debt to shore up market confidence.

The credit thaw, however, has been slow to come and may have happened too late to help a sagging economy.

"Even if the money market improves with time, it may be too late for the economy," said Richard DeKaser, chief economist at National City Corp. in Cleveland. (Reporting by Richard Leong; Editing by James Dalgleish) REUTERS 0432 301008 0432 301008 0432 301008
   RFLANGEN|AUF|DNP   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | mntdbt : National Government Debt/Bond Markets | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusny : New York | namz : North America | usa : United States | use : Northeast U.S.   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020081029e4at002kk  



 HDUS RATE FUTURES-Confidence drop, points to 50 bps Fed cut   BYBy Ros Krasny      WC337 words   PD28 October 2008   ET15:09   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited   
   LP(Adds details, analyst comments, byline)

CHICAGO, Oct 28 (Reuters) - U.S. short-term interest rate futures were higher on Tuesday after an unexpectedly sharp drop in consumer confidence raised expectations for an aggressive Federal Reserve rate cut this week.
   TDFutures fully price a one-half point rate cut from the Fed, to 1 percent. Prospects for a cut to 0.75 percent are at 40 percent against 28 percent late on Monday.

The Conference Board said its consumer confidence index fell in October to 38.0 from an upwardly revised 61.4 in September as a spiraling financial crisis left Americans anxious about their jobs, investments and retirement.

The October outcome was the lowest reading since the index was launched in 1967.

"The Conference Board data was about as ugly as it gets," said Alan Ruskin, chief international strategist at RBS Greenwich Capital in Greenwich, Connecticut.

Eroding confidence, which could flow through to further weakness in consumer spending, suggests the Fed's task to stabilize the economy is far from over.

"Consumers ... see no end in sight even with all the actions that the government has taken, all actions the Fed has taken, and the possible changes in Washington," said Lindsey Piegza, market analyst at FTN Financial in New York.

Dealers note that futures values are distorted at the moment by the recent huge expansion in the Fed's balance sheet, which has helped pushed the effective funds rate far below the prevailing target rate of 1.5 percent.

On Tuesday, the funds rate was trading near 0.75 percent.

"A case can be made that the Fed has downgraded the significance of the fed funds rate through its provisions of liquidity and expanding its own balance sheet," said Marc Chandler, foreign exchange strategist at Brown Brothers Harriman in New York. (Editing by Tom Hals)
   RFMARKETS-RATEFUTURES-CONFIDENCE (UPDATE 1)|LANGEN|ABN|M|D|E|RBN|U|MNI|RNP|DNP   NSe1201 : Central Bank Intervention | e1202 : Interest Rates | gpol : Domestic Politics | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCWASH | FED | INT | MCE | MMT | DBT | STIR | POL | CEN   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020081028e4as001a1  



 HDINSTANT VIEW 1-FOMC cuts target rate to 1 pct   WC241 words   PD29 October 2008   ET19:27   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited   
   LPNEW YORK, Oct 29 (Reuters) - The U.S. Federal Reserve cut a key interest rate by a hefty half-percentage point on Wednesday to prevent a widening credit crisis from tipping the United States into a deep and prolonged recession.

Story: [ID:nN29478433] Text: [ID:nTRT000340] KEY POINTS: * The Fed's decision takes its target for overnight bank lending to 1 percent, the lowest since June 2004. * Wall Street was united in the opinion the Fed would lower rates, although views were split on the likely size of the move. * The U.S. central bank has cut benchmark overnight rates from 5.25 percent in nine steps over the past 13 months to counter a financial storm that started with the collapse of the U.S. mortgage market and spread around the world. COMMENTS:
   TDJOHN MCCARTHY, DIRECTOR OF FX TRADING, ING CAPITAL MARKETS, NEW YORK:

"Not much of a reaction, it was a little bit late. The dollar rallying just a little bit against the euro although equities have given up gains. We are seeing the yen crosses rally a bit now. MARKET REACTION: STOCKS: Benchmark U.S. equity indexes shed most gains. BONDS: Treasury debt prices held at higher levels. DOLLAR: U.S. dollar pared losse against euro.
   RFUSA-MARKETS/DURABLEGOODS (INSTANT VIEW)|LANGEN|Table|ABN|E|RBN|U|D|M|C|O|MTL|GRO|SOF|OIL   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCMCE | ECI | PLCY | CEN | FED | MUNI | DBT | COFS | FIN | BSVC | FINS | INVS | FUND | BANK | US/INSTANT | EMBG:DBT | EMBG:PLCY | EMBG:US/INSTANT | embargokeyE2   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020081101e4at000fd  



 HDMORTGAGES/AGENCIES-Spreads snap back on relative value   BYBy Al Yoon      WC659 words   PD29 October 2008   ET21:47   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited   
   LPNEW YORK, Oct 29 (Reuters) - Debt and mortgage-backed securities issued by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac rebounded from weeks of drubbing on Wednesday as yields at or near record highs drew a spate of bargain-hunting.

A half-percentage point cut in the Federal Reserve's target interest rate also buoyed the market for agency debt and MBS. For story, see: [ID:nN29457174].
   TDFannie Mae and Freddie Mac unsecured bonds have endured a beating over the past two weeks as investors increasingly questioned the government's pledges to support the debt, which make up the bulk of a $3 trillion market. A plan for explicit U.S. backing of some bank debt is presenting investors with safer alternatives, forcing up premiums on agency issues that have an implied, or "effective" guarantee, analysts said.

"Whether it's agency spreads or MBS spreads we've reached back to historic wides, and so there will be some point where we tigthen in a little bit" just on relative value, said Todd Abraham, co-head of government and mortgage bonds at Federated Investors in Pittsburgh.

Yield spreads premiums on debt issued by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac snapped back at least 10 basis points as purchases by value-minded investors offset selling by others unwinding leveraged bets for the first day in five. The spreads are still two- to three-times typical levels before the credit crisis began to deepen in early 2008, however.

Ten-year Freddie Mac debt yielded 118 basis points more than benchmark Treasuries on Wednesday, down from 128 basis points on Tuesday, according to TradeWeb. Five-year Freddie Mac spreads narrowed to 145.5 basis points from 159 basis points.

Shorter-dated agency debt spreads also narrowed, building on stability found earlier this week. Freddie Mac drew stronger demand for a $1 billion one-month bills auction than a similar sale about a month ago, helped by a thaw in money markets.

"Each day's improvement needs to be watched to see how well it sticks," said Jim Vogel, a strategist at FTN Financial in Memphis, Tennessee, in a client note. "A positive-sloping basis curve - without ridiculous spreads in 5s and 10s - will improve trading opportunities and investor interest."

Tighter spreads for agency and agency MBS debt markets are seen as crucial for the health of the U.S. housing market since Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and the Federal Home Loan Bank system provide the bulk of funding for home mortgages. The government in seizing Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac in conservatorship last month pledged support behind the debt, but the impact has been undercut by emergency actions for banks.

Yield spread premiums on MBS guaranteed by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac also narrowed sharply on Wednesday, after hitting their cheapest levels in more than two months. By some measures, spreads hit their widest since March.

Fannie Mae MBS paying 5.5 percent interest yielded 1.97 percentage points more than 10-year Treasuries, compared with 2.03 points on Tuesday, according to Thomson Reuters data.

But the spread improvement was not accompanied by any signs of of purchases by the big buyers, including Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, that have controlled the market for years.

MBS have suffered as Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have been slow to increase purchases as urged by their regulator to help keep mortgage rates low. The more costly agency debt, which funds the investments, is pinching the ability of the companies to purchase fixed-rate mortgages and MBS at a profit.

The MBS spread was as narrow as 1.53 points in mid-September when investors were expecting more purchases by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and the government.

"If (MBS spreads) just stop widening, you have so much extra spread," Abraham said. "It's very compelling over time."
   RFMARKETS-MORTGAGES/AGENCIES|LANGEN|ABN|M|D|MNI   COfednat : Fannie Mae | freddy : Freddie Mac   INibnk : Banking/Credit | i81501 : Credit Types/Services | i8150103 : Mortgages/Real Estate Credit   NSe1122 : Mortgage Applications/Refinancing | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | cmabs : Mortgage Backed Securities | emort : Mortgage Rate | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | c17 : Funding/Capital | c172 : Corporate Debt Instruments | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCDBT | GVD | DRV | MTG | AGN | FIN | REAM | ABS | COFS | BSVC | FINS | CPX | AGN/ | MTG/ | EMBG:DBT | embargokeyE1   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020081101e4at000ht  



 HDMONEY MARKETS-Bank rates fall as US, China central banks ease   WC733 words   PD29 October 2008   ET12:12   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited   
   LP* Bank rates fall on hopes of more central bank rate cuts

* U.S., China, Norway pare rates; ECB, BoJ seen following
   TD* Fed establishes four new currency swap lines

* Data shows U.S. commercial paper market improving (Adds Fed's new swap lines, paragraph 3)

By Emelia Sithole-Matarise and Richard Leong

LONDON/NEW YORK, Oct 29 (Reuters) - Most interbank lending rates fell on Wednesday, extending a near three-week slide, as a widely expected interest rate cut from the U.S. Federal Reserve fanned hopes of a fresh round of monetary easing from central banks worldwide.

The Fed joined China and Norway in lowering their policy rates, while analysts expect the European Central Bank and the Bank of Japan will trim their rates next week to combat the financial crisis and a faltering global economy.

The Fed also created currency swap lines, worth $30 billion each, with Brazil, Mexico, South Korea and Singapore, in an expanded effort to ease dollar funding tightness around the world. For more, see [ID:nN29580093]

An encouraging sign during this gradual credit loosening has been the improvement in the U.S. commercial paper market. Companies have been able to sell more short-term IOUs and raise longer-term funds to run their operations since the Fed launched a CP purchase program two days ago.

"It's finally getting a bit of traction," said Daniel North, chief economist at Euler Hermes ACI in Owings Mill, Maryland.

U.S. commercial paper supply subsided on Tuesday after surging 45 percent on Monday, but financial companies quadrupled the amount of longer-dated paper they sold on Tuesday compared with Monday. For more, see [ID:nN29468006]

Easier access to money for banks and financial companies was also reflected in the interbank lending market.

London interbank offered rates (Libor) for dollars eased across all maturities on Wednesday, with overnight dollars <USDONFSR=> fixed 9.5 basis points down at 1.14000 percent, their lowest in a week. [ID:nLT73689]

Libor for euros and sterling were mostly 1 basis point to 7 basis points lower than Tuesday.

Another barometer of improved credit conditions has been more investments in money market mutual funds.

U.S. money market funds, which are major investors in a variety of short-term debt like commercial paper, saw inflows for a fifth straight week, according to the Money Fund Report on Wednesday. For more, see [ID:nN29492446]

CENTRAL BANK MOVES

The Fed as expected cut its federal funds rate target by 50 basis points to 1.0 percent at the end of its two-day meeting on Wednesday. Federal funds, or surplus reserves lent overnight between banks, last traded at a rate of 0.25 percent on Wednesday, below the Fed's target rate.

Japan and the ECB are expected to follow with policy moves of their own by the end of next week to avert slipping into recession.

While markets braced for the Fed's rate decision, strategists said global central bank moves to boost liquidity were gaining traction, though banks were still somewhat hesitant to lend to each other amid risk concerns.

"Central banks recognize the gravity of the situation and have pulled out all the stops," said Nick Stamenkovic, fixed-income strategist at RIA Capital Markets in Edinburgh.

"The problem is banks are still worried about counterparty risk. There is still some reluctance to lend to each other. Until we see an improvement on the credit risk side then the improvement will be pretty slow," he said.

In its attempts to flood the market with cash, the Fed created a $15 billion temporary currency swap line with New Zealand on Tuesday, while the ECB and the Bank of England offered banks unlimited seven-day U.S. dollar funds via fixed-rate liquidity operations.

Demand for euros in the ECB's first ever no-limits, three-month tender remained limp on Wednesday as banks bet the rate would be more favorable by end of next week after the central bank's anticipated policy easing. [ID:nLT730249]

"We are muddling through. The market conditions are not decidedly better. We are just scrapping the bottom," said Richard DeKaser, chief economist at National City Corp in Cleveland.
   RFMARKETS-MONEY/ (UPDATE 5)|LANGEN|C|D|E|M|O|U|MTL|GRO|SOF|OIL|MNI|UKI|CANT|AUF|J|Z|DNP   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REchina : China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | eurz : Europe | usa : United States | asiaz : Asia | chinaz : Greater China | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America   IPCFED | CEN | MCE | GVD | DBT | MMT | ISU | BNK | FIN | USC | INT | STIR | PLCY | MEVN | MMT/ | FRX   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020081029e4at00130  


 HDKeyCorp cuts prime lending rate to 4 percent, matching Fed's cut of key  interest rate    WC88 words   PD30 October 2008   ET19:30   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPCLEVELAND (AP) - KeyCorp said Thursday it lowered its prime lending rate to 4 percent from 4.5 percent.

The cut in the prime rate matches the 0.5 percent rate cut the Federal Reserve Board announced Wednesday. The prime rate usually moves in lockstep with the fed funds rate, which is now 1 percent.
   TDThe prime rate is often used for consumer loans such as car loans and home equity loans.
   RF7   COsoccor : KeyCorp   INi814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagpf1finonl | sel----- | catf | 1333   IPDFinancial/Business | KeyCorp Interest Rate | D944VSEO4   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020081030e4au0021t  



 HDOil company shares give up some gains after Fed's rate cut announcement   WC245 words   PD29 October 2008   ET20:16   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPHOUSTON (AP) - Shares of the major U.S. oil producers and service companies gave up some of their earlier gains Wednesday after the Federal Reserve Board cut a key interest rate.

The Fed cut its key federal funds rate to 1 percent from 1.5 percent. The rate is often used as a benchmark for the prime rate, a rate often used for pricing consumer loans and business loans. The rate cut is aimed at boosting economic growth going forward.
   TDShares of Exxon Mobil Corp., the world's largest publicly traded oil company, were up 31 cents to $75.17 in afternoon trading -- off their earlier high of $77.10. Chevron Corp., the second-largest U.S. oil company, was up 74 cents to $70.76, while No. 3 ConocoPhillips rose $1.29 to $50.98. Both stocks traded higher prior to 2 p.m. as investors awaited the Fed announcement.

On the services side, Schlumberger Ltd. was up $4 to $52, while Halliburton Co. was up 85 cents to $19.10 -- mostly maintaining earlier gains.

Investors had largely expected the Fed to chop the rate by a half point or three-quarters of a point.

The last cut was on Oct. 8 when the Fed lowered the rate by a half-point -- a coordinated move with foreign central banks -- in an attempt to loosen the credit markets and spur lending.
   RF7   COexxn : Exxon Mobil Corporation | hllbt : Halliburton Co | philp : ConocoPhillips | slumb : Schlumberger Ltd | socal : Chevron Corporation   INi1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1300003 : Crude Petroleum Extraction | i1300005 : Support Activities for Oil/Gas | iexplo : Natural Gas/Oil Exploration | iextra : Natural Gas/Oil Extraction   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | ustx : Texas | namz : North America | uss : Southern U.S.   IPCtagpf1finonl | sel----- | catf | 1333   IPDFinancial/Business | Oil Post Fed Sector Snap | D944BEQG0   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020081029e4at002jm  



 HDSector Snap: REIT stocks mixed on rate cut, analyst report recommending cautious view   WC456 words   PD29 October 2008   ET20:24   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPMIAMI (AP) - Shares of real estate investment trusts were mixed Wednesday after the Federal Reserve cut a key interest rate and a Goldman Sachs analyst report reaffirmed a cautious view due to a potential downturn in the sector.

The central bank reduced its target for the federal funds rate, the interest banks charge on overnight loans, to 1 percent, a low last seen in 2003-2004. The funds rate has not been lower since 1958.
   TDThe cut is expected to push borrowing costs lower for millions of consumer and business loans, with banks moving quickly to match the Fed's action by lowering their benchmark prime lending rate from 4.5 percent, where it has been for the past three weeks, down to 4 percent.

That news followed the Goldman Sachs report by analyst Jonathan Habermann, who said reduced target prices and earnings estimates on REITs were meant "to incorporate our view of a potential worst-case scenario in light of a prolonged downturn in (commercial real estate)."

Goldman Sachs economists forecast unemployment would rise to 8 percent by the end of 2009, and lending and credit issues could cause trouble in the commercial real estate market. On Oct. 6, Goldman Sachs projected an average total return on the 38 REITs they cover to be negative-4.5 percent.

Habermann recommended a cautious stance in REIT sectors that involve short term leases, such as apartments. But the analyst favored owning stock in long-term lease sectors, such as malls and offices in central business districts.

The report Wednesday mentioned four stocks it rated as "Sell" in the apartment sector: AvalonBay Communities Inc., BRE Properties Inc., Camden Property Trust and Post Properties Inc.

It also expressed caution on companies it said had major refinancing concerns in the near term, including AMB Property Corp., Cousins Property Inc., ProLogis, and Kite Realty Group Trust.

Shares of AMB Property and ProLogis were up 6 percent in afternoon trading. Kite Realty Group rose 44 cents, or nearly 9.2 percent, to $5.24. Shares of iStar Financial gained 24 cents, or 22 percent, to $1.31.

AvalonBay Communities, BRE Properties, Camden Property Trust, Cousins Property and Post Properties Inc. were all down. Other REITs that saw stocks fall more than 5 percent include Simon Property Group and General Growth Properties.

Meanwhile, a J.P. Morgan analyst report reduced its rating on Alexandria Real Estate Equities to "Neutral" from "Overweight." Analyst Anthony Paolone wrote that the neutral rating was due to earnings challenges in 2009 "from rising interest rates and deteriorating fundamentals in the labspace business."

Shares of Alexandria Real Estate Equities added 33 cents to $69.40.
   RF7   INi81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles | iinv : Investing/Securities   NSm11 : Equity Markets | c1522 : Share Price Movement/Disruptions | e1202 : Interest Rates | c15 : Performance | c152 : Earnings Projections | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagpf1finonl | sel----- | catf | 1333   IPDFinancial/Business | Sector Snap REITs | D944BIJ00   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020081029e4at002kd  



 HDEuro and pound gain after Fed cuts rates   WC271 words   PD30 October 2008   ET09:54   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPFRANKFURT, Germany (AP) - The dollar fell further against the euro and the pound on Thursday after the U.S. Federal Reserve cut its benchmark interest rate to 1 percent.

The 15-nation euro rose to $1.3174 in morning trading in Europe, well above the $1.2852 it bought late Wednesday in New York, and nearly 6 U.S. cents above the $1.2597 it bought on Tuesday.
   TDThe British pound, which only last Friday hit a six-year low of $1.5264 against the dollar, was up to $1.6560 -- more than 2 U.S. cents above the $1.6314 it bought late Wednesday.

"There were no surprises from the Fed last night with the widely expected 50-basis point cut in interest rates coming through and this has ensured that the dollar remains under pressure, at least in the short term," said Gary Thomson, head of sales trading at CMC Markets.

The Fed's policy-making committee, in a unanimous decision, cut the federal funds rate, the interest banks require for overnight loans, to 1 percent in an effort to invigorate the U.S. economy by getting more credit to businesses and consumers.

While rate cuts can prompt growth, they also can weigh on a currency as investors transfer funds where they can earn higher returns. The Bank of England and the European Central Bank both appear set to cut their rates -- currently at 4.5 percent and 3.75 percent respectively -- next week.

In other trading, the dollar edged up to 98.52 Japanese yen from 97.14 yen.
   RF7   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | eec : European Union | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations   REeurz : Europe | gfr : Germany | usa : United States | eecz : European Union Countries | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe   IPCtagpf1wcat | sel----- | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | EU Euro Dollar | D944NE5G1   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020081030e4au0012z  



 HDWells Fargo cuts prime lending rate to 4 percent, matching Fed's cut of key  interest rate    WC111 words   PD30 October 2008   ET11:55   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPSAN FRANCISCO (AP) - Wells Fargo & Co. said late Wednesday it lowered its prime lending rate to 4 percent from 4.5 percent.

The cut in the prime rate matches the 0.5 percent rate cut the Federal Reserve Board announced earlier in the day. The prime rate usually moves in lockstep with the fed funds rate, which is now 1 percent.
   TDThe prime rate is often used for consumer loans such as car loans and home equity loans.

Wells Fargo agreed last month to acquire Charlotte, N.C.-based bank Wachovia Corp.
   RF7   COfuncp : Wachovia Corp. | nwbc : Wells Fargo & Company   INi814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | usca : California | namz : North America | usw : Western U.S.   IPCtagpf1finonl | sel----- | catf | 1333   IPDFinancial/Business | Wells Fargo Interest Rate | D944P7BO0   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020081030e4au0017o  

 Page 1 of 1      2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.


 

 Page 1      2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.

