 


 HDFed rate rise — now comes the hard part   BYRobin Wigglesworth, US Markets Editor      WC1,331 words   PD17 December 2015   ET07:07   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All rights reserved. Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the web.   
   LPA momentous era in monetary history is finally over: the Federal Reserve has voted to raise interest rates for the first time since 2006. But actually implementing the decision may not be quite so straightforward.

The legacy of the US central bank’s efforts to combat the 2008-09 crisis is a financial system soaked with the Fed’s money, which has in the process neutralised its traditional interest rate tools and necessitated a radical new approach.
   TDThe Fed’s New York branch will on Thursday begin to push and pull on its new monetary levers in an attempt to get its main interest rate up by roughly a quarter of a percentage point.* While analysts mostly expect it to go smoothly, the experimental nature of this monetary tightening cycle means it could be a bumpy ride.

“Now comes the hard part,” Credit Suisse analysts Zoltan Pozsar and James Sweeney said in a note on Wednesday. “The financial system has completely changed since the last hiking cycle.”

First, some background. When economists talk about the Fed’s official borrowing rate, they refer to the Fed funds rate, which since late 2008 has been confined to a corridor between zero and 0.25 per cent.

Here is a chart that shows the overnight Fed funds rate over the past decade. There were some loopy moves around the financial crisis, but generally the central bank has kept control of the rate.

The Fed funds rate sets a benchmark for the cost of credit that ripples through markets and guides borrowing costs for everyone in the US (and much further afield). But the Fed’s crisis-fighting has stymied the old-fashioned way of lifting interest rates.

Historically, the Fed has set interest rates by controlling how much money there is sloshing around in the Fed funds market. If it wanted to lift rates the Fed sucked funds out of the system by selling some of the Treasuries it had in storage, and charging the banks’ accounts at the Fed. When it lowered interest rates it pushed money into the market by buying Treasuries and debiting money to banks.

Yet quantitative easing by the Fed entailed buying massive amounts of bonds from banks and crediting their accounts at the Fed with new money — so the financial system is now awash with surplus Fed funds.

Here’s a chart that shows how the excess reserves have exploded in recent years. That little dimple in 2001 is when the Fed pumped extra money into the system following the 9/11 terrorist attacks.

The US central bank has maintained the effective Fed funds rate as its primary interest rate target, but has introduced some new tools to keep it within its new interest rate corridor. The first will act as a ceiling — or in reality a magnet — pulling the Fed funds rate upwards, while the second will in theory serve as a floor.

The first is called “interest on excess reserves”, or IOER. This lets the Fed pay interest on money held at the central bank. On Wednesday policymakers voted to lift the IOER rate from 0.25 per cent to 0.5 per cent.

In theory, this should drag the effective Fed funds rate up to this level, as banks should not be willing to lend to other financial institutions at a rate lower than what the central bank pays. But only actual banks have access to the IOER, and there are many other lenders in the Fed funds market that in practice have dragged the effective rate well below where the IOER is set.

Here’s a chart that shows that in action.

So the Fed has therefore since 2013 been testing out another, more powerful tool to help it manage the process of lifting rates. The overnight reverse repo programme, or Overnight RRP, is primarily aimed at money market funds, and is expected to do much of the heavy lifting when the Fed actually lifts rates.

In a typical RRP the Fed’s market desk sells a Treasury bond from its portfolio to a money-market fund and agrees to buy it back the next day at a certain price, a process known as “repo”, short for repurchase. In practice, the central bank’s balance sheet does not shrink, but this sets a benchmark for cash interest rates paid by the Fed itself. These RRP operations will happen every business day between 12.45pm and 1.15pm in New York.

Here is a chart that shows how the Fed has been testing the impact of the RRP on the effective funds rate. It has occasionally been lifted or lowered to see the impact on the Fed funds market.

The training wheels are now coming off. The Fed voted on Wednesday to increase the RRP rate from 0.05 per cent to 0.25 per cent. To ensure that the programme has enough torque to get the Fed funds rate above that level the central bank also crucially suspended an overall ceiling on the programme.

Each approved counterparty can take up to $30bn, but the Fed anticipates that $2tn of its Treasuries will be available for the programme. The Fed has already announced a total cap of $300bn on a coming batch of longer-term repos, which are separate from overnight repo.

Fed officials have been concerned about letting the RRP programme get too big, given that this could distort the money markets, but in the short term the absolute priority is clearly for the central bank to show that is has full control over the Fed funds rate.

As Megan Greene, chief economist at Manulife says, “If the Fed cannot effectively manage the Fed funds rate then its credibility will be severely undermined”. By in practice lifting size limits on the RRP, analysts expect it to manage this feat. While it may not be an instantaneous lift-off, Fed officials have been confident that the Fed funds rate will gravitate to within the new range.

Still, even if the Fed manages to get the effective Fed funds rate up to roughly the midpoint in its new corridor, the question remains whether the rest of the fixed income market will respond.

Typically, other important market rates would rise alongside the Fed funds, as banks and fund managers take advantage of any opportunities to “arbitrage” away anomalies. But regulations have severely curtailed the ability of banks to lubricate these arbitrage trades, leading to a series of anomalies in money markets.

For example, the GCF bank repo rate — essentially the cost for banks to borrow from each other when they proffer collateral like Treasuries — is now higher than Libor, the unsecured bank funding rate.

Some economists argue that the Fed should look for a new mechanism to set US interest rates, since the Fed funds market is so small and thinly traded nowadays. There used to be close to $350bn a day that changed hands before the crisis, but daily volumes are now roughly $50bn a day. Some are therefore urging a radical rethink.

Even Simon Potter, head of the New York Fed’s markets division — and thus the man who will have to implement the central bank’s decision — hinted that this may be needed.

“We should, of course, consider the traditional parts of an operating framework, for example, possible interest rate targets and the mechanisms used to achieve the target,” he said in a recent speech at the Bank of England. “But recent experience strongly suggests that we need to consider options beyond just a classic interest rate targeting regime that’s based on a scarcity of reserve balances.”

But for now, the focus is squarely on ensuring a smooth interest rate lift-off with its new experimental toolkit.

* This article has been amended to make clear the Fed’s New York branch will begin using its new monetary levers on Thursday
   COfed : Federal Reserve Board   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | e12 : Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTCOM00020151215ebcf001b9  



 HDOne tiny step on rates highlights America’s hidden weaknesses   BYJames Grant      WC924 words   PD18 December 2015   ET20:16   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All rights reserved. Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the web.   
   LPJanet Yellen, the \b Federal Reserve\b0  chair, characterised Wednesday’s long-awaited interest-rate rise as a show of confidence in the US economy. Are things really so fragile that an $18tn economy needs a chuck under the chin? Seems so.

You may remember the interest rates of yesteryear — sturdy integers such as 4 or 5 or even 6. They vanished with prosperity in 2008. After which, in America, came zero. In continental Europe, where they now go in for negative interest rates, zero looks almost usurious.
   TDIt is easy to forget that interest rates are prices, not — chiefly — knobs or levers on some infernal monetary-policy control panel. Proper interest rates balance the supply of savings with the demand for savings. They calibrate financial risk and define investment hurdle rates. They measure time preference, too. What would you pay for the promise of a future dividend? Less or more than a dividend cheque you could take to the bank today? Less, probably. A good old-fashioned discount rate would tell you how much less.

Proper interest rates are the ones that markets discover. Ersatz rates are the ones that central banks impose. The Fed sets one basic rate, the so-called federal funds rate (the one that, this week, it hoisted to 0.25 per cent from zero). It influences others. As the funds rate goes, so goes, to one degree or another, the cost of financing houses, bonds, cars, oil rigs and corporations.

Listening to the central bankers, you would suppose that ultra-low interest rates are a tonic. They are rather an opiate. They cloud the judgment of imprudent lenders and sooth the anxiety of encumbered borrowers.

Exceptionally low borrowing costs push and they pull. They pull consumption forward in time, and they push business failure backwards in time. They flatter present-day car sales by borrowing future car sales. And they flatter current bankruptcy data by prolonging the solvency of debtors who, with just a few turns of the credit screws, would be unable to pay their lenders.

To whom or what should Detroit give thanks for the sizzling, 18m per annum selling rate of domestic cars and trucks? In the wake of the rate rise, a spokesman for General Motors was quoted as saying that the vibrant American economy deserved the credit. He might have mentioned the Fed. At 67 months, the maturity of the average car loan has never been longer. At 4.11 per cent, the cost of an old-fashioned, 48-month car loan has rarely been cheaper.

Rent-A-Center, which sells consumer durables on rent-to-own instalment plans, recently blamed an earnings miss on “higher levels of consumer debt and subprime auto debt, both of which are impacting [the customer’s] ability to stay current on their payments.”

Apologists for manipulated interest rates contend that the tumult in junk bonds — plunging prices, heavy mutual-fund redemptions — is a quirk of the disaster in oil. The real news, they say, is the nearly spotless record of America’s banks. The apologists do not exaggerate the recent results. They rather misinterpret them.

The banks are distressingly clean. In the third quarter, non-performing loans made up the lowest percentage of total loans since the start of the Great Recession. In some portfolios, banks are reporting what is essentially no net write-offs, or something uncannily near perfection.

Construction and development loans, of all things, showed net write-offs of zero as of September 30 — this on a lending base of $266.1bn. The crisis-era peak in net write-offs on C & D loans — sure-fire candidates for impairment during an economic downturn — reached 8 per cent. When borrowers do not default there are two explanations. One, we have been transported into a wonderful new age. Two, we continue to live in the old, familiar age, the one in which credit losses surface when rates rise and business activity weakens. Hope favours the first alternative; experience, the second.

The Fed is raising its rate at a late hour in a weary business expansion. At the start of the last interest-rate raising cycle, in 2004, the growth in gross domestic product was running at 3 per cent. In the two tightening cycles before that one, in 1994 and 1999, growth was running above 4 per cent. These days, GDP growth is trudging at 2 per cent. Most of the rest of the world trudges more slowly.

The Fed missed the coming of the Great Recession because it took no heed of the building debacle in finance. No doubt the central bank will not make that mistake again. Which one will it make instead?

Bureaucracy that it is, the Fed will err by overlooking the problems which are properly chargeable to itself. Years of monetary improvisation — quantitative easing and nonstop talking (“forward guidance”), in addition to zero per cent rates — have distorted the structure and the tempo of American enterprise.

As rates go up, car sales will go down. As credit conditions tighten, latent bankrupts will stream into court for protection from their creditors. There is a better than passing chance that the funds rate is headed back to zero.

It is noteworthy that the decision to raise the rate elicited no recorded dissent on the Fed’s policymaking committee. “If it’s obvious,” to quote a Wall Street maxim, “it’s obviously wrong.”

The writer is editor of Grant’s Interest Rate Observer
   COfed : Federal Reserve Board   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News | e12 : Monetary Policy   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTCOM00020151218ebci00795  



 HDFed raises rates in historic move   BYSam Fleming in Washington      WC1,343 words   PD17 December 2015   ET09:16   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All rights reserved. Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the web.   
   LPThe \b Federal Reserve\b0  has raised short-term interest rates for the first time in nearly a decade, calling an end to the near-zero borrowing costs that have prevailed since the US was struck by the worst financial crash in modern times.

In a landmark step, the US central bank announced a quarter-point increase in the target range for the federal funds rate to 0.25-0.5 per cent, lifting it from the historic lows it has occupied since December 2008, when the US was mired in an economic crisis that would ultimately drive unemployment to 10 per cent.
   TDEquity markets rose across the world following the move. A positive session in the US fed through to Europe and Asia, sending the FTSE 100 1.5 per cent higher and the Nikkei 225 up 1.6 per cent. Financial stocks led the way, with HSBC adding 2 per cent and BNP Paribas advancing 1.9 per cent.

Even in emerging markets, which are expected to face capital outflows as investors seek higher yields as the Fed pushes rates higher, investors took the widely expected US rate rise in their stride.

The dollar continued to strengthen against most other currencies, with the dollar index up 0.9 per cent to 98.77, less than 2 per cent shy of a 12-year high. Against the dollar, the euro slipped 0.5 per cent to $1.0855.

Policymakers expect only “gradual” future increases in the federal funds rate after today’s move, the Fed said in a statement. It added that given the current shortfall in inflation compared with its 2 per cent target, it would “carefully monitor actual and expected progress” towards its inflation goal.

It said it expected to maintain the current large size of its balance sheet until normalisation of interest rates was “well under way”.

Investors largely shrugged off the widely expected decision to tighten monetary policy, and many welcomed the clarity that it finally brought. “At last,” said Kathy Jones, a strategist at Schwab. “I am so glad this is out of the way. We can obsess about something else.”

In the wake of the announcement, the two-year Treasury yield rose to more than 1 per cent for the first time since 2010, while the S&P 500 extended its gain to 1.5 per cent for the day, bringing it back into positive territory for the year.

The US central bank’s upward move may be incremental at just 25 basis points, but it represents a historic gamble by Fed chair Janet Yellen, coming at a time when global growth remains lacklustre and the Fed’s foreign counterparts including the European Central Bank are set upon easy policy.

“This action marks the end of an extraordinary seven-year period,” Ms Yellen said. “It also recognises the considerable progress that has been made toward restoring jobs, raising incomes and easing the economic hardship of millions of Americans.”

The increase comes amid signs of a steady US recovery, with consumer spending growth holding firm and unemployment standing at just 5 per cent, lower than the 5.3 per cent rate that was prevailing when the Fed last kick-started an interest rate raising cycle in 2004.

While inflation has remained stubbornly below the Fed’s 2 per cent goal, the Fed said it was now “reasonably confident” that it will rise back to the objective over the medium term following a considerable improvement in the labour market this year.

In its statement, the Fed said its policy stance would remain “accommodative” even after the increase. “The committee currently expects that, with gradual adjustments in the stance of monetary policy, economic activity will continue to expand at a moderate pace and labour market indicators will continue to strengthen,” the statement added.

Median interest-rate projections from the central bank’s policymakers suggested rates could rise by another 100 basis points in 2016, a faster pace than predicted by financial markets. Their median estimate for the longer-term federal funds rate stayed unchanged at 3.5 per cent.

There were no dissents, even after two Fed governors — Lael Brainard and Daniel Tarullo — had questioned the merits of a move earlier this year.

Ms Yellen has fallen over herself to communicate to markets that the Fed will only lift rates slowly, allowing it to weigh the impact of a modest move on the economy and financial conditions, including the dollar, before following through with further increases. The Fed’s predictions for future increases suggest this will be the shallowest rate-lifting cycle in modern times.

The Fed said that in determining the timing and size of future moves, it will assess “realised and expected” economic conditions relative to its objectives of maximum employment and 2 per cent inflation. It currently expects only gradual increases, and the federal funds rate is likely to remain below normal levels for some time.

The increase will be executed by raising the interest rate the Fed pays on excess reserves held by banks to 0.5 per cent, effective on December 17, as well as the use of an overnight reverse repurchase programme.

This reverse repo rate will be set at 0.25 per cent, and the facility will have its current ceiling lifted from $300bn to quantities “limited only by the value of Treasury securities held outright in the system open market account”, the Fed said. An estimated $2tn worth of Treasury securities are estimated by the New York Fed to be available for the operations.

Projections showed that officials’ median estimate for the federal funds rate next year was 1.375 per cent, unchanged from the September forecast. The 2017 estimate was 2.375 per cent, down from the 2.625 per cent previously. The expectation for 2018 was for 3.25 per cent, and policymakers’ median projection for the longer-run federal funds rate was unchanged at 3.5 per cent.

Before the announcement, traders were pricing in a move on Wednesday and two follow-on increases in 2016, so the projections imply a quicker pace of rate rises than the markets expected.

Policymakers made only modest changes to their economic forecasts, with the median estimate for the unemployment rate coming down a shade to 4.7 per cent from 2016 until 2018, compared with a previous projection of 4.8 per cent. The longer-run estimate of the jobless rate stayed at 4.9 per cent.

The economy is expected to expand by 2.4 per cent next year, up from 2.3 per cent, and by 2.2 per cent in 2017. The core measure of inflation followed by the Fed will return to 2 per cent by 2018, as previously predicted.

The Fed ended its third round of quantitative easing in October 2014 and has since then been carefully laying gradual groundwork for an end to its near-zero rates policy. Both policies were instituted to combat the effects of the financial meltdown of 2007-09, and Ms Yellen has recently said lifting rates would be a “testament” to how far the economy has since recovered.

Getting to this point has not been straightforward, with overseas growth scares and financial turbulence preventing a move back in September.

The Fed will face criticism from all sides for taking Wednesday’s step. Some economists, including Lawrence Summers, the former Treasury secretary and a one-time rival to Ms Yellen for the Fed chairmanship, have said in the past that the risks of lifting rates outweigh those of standing pat, given America’s slow growth and low inflation record.

On the other side are arguments that the Fed has already left things too long, with Republican politicians fretful about the risks of asset-price bubbles. Some Fed policymakers have flagged up the financial stability risks of persisting with ultra-low rates for too long, with attention focused on commercial property and parts of the corporate loan market.

Additional reporting by Robin Wigglesworth
   COfed : Federal Reserve Board   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | m11 : Equity Markets | e12 : Monetary Policy | effund : Interbank Rate | ecat : Economic News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTCOM00020151216ebcg0083p  



 HDTwo-year Treasury yield nudges 1% as Fed looms   BYRichard Blackden      WC293 words   PD16 December 2015   ET19:04   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All rights reserved. Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the web.   
   LPUS Treasury yields are nudging higher ahead of the Federal Reserve’s first interest rate increase in nearly a decade, as traders nervously position themselves for the end of an unprecedented monetary policy era.

The 10-year Treasury bond yield has inched higher for most of the day, and is now trading at 2.30 per cent, up 3 basis points in the day. The two-year government bond yield has risen 2 bp to a whisker below 1 per cent, the highest in over five years, reports Robin Wigglesworth, US markets editor.
   TDThe Fed is expected to lift its interest rate band by a quarter of a percentage point at 2pm in New York today, after holding it floored near zero for almost exactly six years.

 

Most investors are sanguine about the impact, after having been prepared for the move for over a year, but there is a lingering sense of unease in some quarters. While the US stock market has remained relatively relaxed at the prospect, the corporate bond market has been turbulent for several weeks.

The US central bank is widely expected to stress once again how careful it will be in lifting rates higher next year, with investors currently pricing in only two more quarter-point increases in 2016. The Fed’s current projections are for four increases next year, but those forecasts are predicted to be muted when it presents up-to-date numbers later on Wednesday.

Nonetheless, some analysts and fund managers still fret that the end of zero interest rates in the US could have negative unintended consequences for the plumbing of bond markets, push the dollar higher and intensify turbulence in the developing world.
   COfed : Federal Reserve Board   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | mntdbt : National Government Debt/Bond Markets | e12 : Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTCOM00020151216ebcg007k9  



 HDUS central bank policy and the spectre of 1998   BYMatthew Klein     WC864 words   PD18 December 2015   ET12:59   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All rights reserved. Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the web.  
   LPHistory never repeats, but there are some  intriguing parallels  between the global macroeconomic environment in 1997 to 1998 and today that may help explain the Federal Reserve’s decision to lift US interest rates this week.

Back then, few at the Fed believed in using monetary policy to restrain excessive risk-taking in the financial markets. Now, it seems, things have changed. How else to explain such different reactions to such similar circumstances?
   TDBy the end of 1998, inflation had decelerated to the slowest rate since the second world war; oil prices  had collapsed by nearly two-thirds; junk bond yields were soaring; the dollar had gained a fifth against the currencies of America’s trade partners; and countries from Latin America to Russia to East Asia were struggling. Meanwhile, the US jobless rate  had dropped to a three-decade low.

Policymakers responded to the confusing, contradictory signals from the strong domestic economy and shuddering financial markets by easing policy — first by refraining from an expected monetary tightening and then by slashing interest rates sharply.

Stock markets soared, encouraging excessive investment at a time when the US economy was already running hot.

“The Fed in 1998 was responding to market developments over and above domestic economic concerns and that contributed to extensions in market valuations,” said Toby Nangle, head of multi-asset allocation at Columbia Threadneedle Investments.

The Fed’s decision to begin “normalising” monetary policy on Wednesday may be an attempt to avoid repeating that experience.

Mark Dow, head of Dow Global Advisors, a hedge fund, and a former economist at the International Monetary Fund, says the Fed is keen on preemptively raising the cost of borrowing as a form of “avalanche patrol” for the financial markets.

Is the Fed overcompensating for mistakes of the past by now lifting rates too early?

Brad DeLong, economics professor at the University of California, Berkeley, worries the Fed is too concerned about the inchoate future danger of financial instability and insufficiently worried about the “asymmetry of the zero lower bound”.

With interest rates still close to zero, the central bank has few options were its current programme to tip the economy into another recession.

The Fed’s approach is strikingly different from its perspective in the roaring 1990s. While some hawks — most notably Janet Yellen when she was a governor on the Federal Reserve Board — then worried the hot job market would lead to faster inflation, the majority of Fed policymakers were more concerned by the risk of financial crises emanating from emerging markets.

The FOMC held rates steady for much of 1997 and 1998 as part of an uneasy balance between hawks worried about falling unemployment and doves fretting over Asia. Then the crash in oil prices pushed the Russian government into default — an event magnified by the collapse of Long-Term Capital Management, an aggressive hedge fund — which rippled through the financial system.

There are some differences between the end of 1998 and today. America’s job market is weaker, and emerging markets have thus far avoided the kinds of acute crises they experienced in the 1990s.

Moreover, the US financial system is somewhat safer today thanks to the combination of higher capital requirements, stricter risk management, tighter regulations and more invasive supervision. There is a world of difference between the liquidation of a few small unlevered junk bond funds and the collapse of a hedge fund so significant the New York Fed had to bring together the big banks to negotiate a bailout.

Still, the behaviour of inflation, oil,  corporate bond spreads , the dollar and unemployment are all remarkably similar now as then.

As was the case nearly 20 years ago, there is a sizeable group of people within the Fed who worry the falling jobless rate will lead to faster wage growth. They were not keen on tightening policy when unemployment was high but, as it rapidly slid to the level deemed “natural”, these policymakers shifted from doves to hawks.

Unlike two decades ago, however, these hawks have been reinforced by policymakers concerned by the consequences of the Fed’s response to the global financial crisis. The US central bank has tried to boost spending by pushing up market valuations with the help of low interest rates and massive doses of quantitative easing, a phenomenon former Fed governor Jeremy Stein has called “reaching for yield”.

Sceptics, Stein most prominent, wonder if the benefits to the economy justified the danger of pumping up stock and bond markets. Once unemployment fell, a new hawkish majority was able to coalesce around the twin goals of financial stability and vigilance against inflation. Among the consequences: a flat stock market, a soaring dollar and sharp price declines on junk-rated debts.

So Fed officials, believing they have learnt the lessons of 1998, now seem to be pursuing roughly the opposite strategy: ignore somnolent inflation and fears over the developing world and instead head off any incipient financial excesses and price pressures.

The sanguine market reaction to the Fed’s interest rate increases suggests investors reckon the Fed may have gotten the balance right — so far, anyway.
   COfed : Federal Reserve Board   NSe1116 : Employment/Unemployment | e1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Monetary Policy | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | russ : Russia | asiaz : Asia | bric : BRICS Countries | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | eeurz : Central/Eastern Europe | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | ussrz : CIS Countries   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTCOM00020151218ebci002xm  



 HDOther central banks are not obliged to follow the Fed’s lead   WC604 words   PD18 December 2015   ET20:30   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All rights reserved. Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the web.   
   LPThis week the US Federal Reserve raised interest rates, not that you necessarily noticed. Thanks to careful signalling from Janet Yellen, who looks increasingly authoritative as Fed chair, financial markets had priced in the quarter-point rise with nearly 100 per cent certainty, limiting the fallout across a wide range of asset markets.

Whether investors will remain as sanguine if the rise is the first of many is a little more doubtful, however. There is a divergence between the expectations of Fed policymakers that rates will be raised several more times next year and the more modest increases priced into financial markets. Still, if subsequent moves are telegraphed as clearly as this one was, the central bank should be able to minimise the immediate disruptive impact.
   TDThere is another group of observers who will have been watching the Fed’s actions and communications very closely. Other central bankers will, one way or another, be affected by interest rate changes in the world’s dominant currency.

Some will have found that the Fed’s move poses immediate challenges. Those emerging markets that still have some kind of target, formal or informal, against the US currency, such as China, will have to make a decision about whether they also tighten policy and, if necessary, follow the dollar higher.

In a world of largely floating exchange rates, most central banks, particularly those in developed economies, can consider the decision calmly without any immediate need to move.

Indeed, the central banks managing the world’s second- and third-most widely traded currencies, the European Central Bank and the Bank of Japan, may find the Fed’s rate rise helpful. Both, facing weak economies and dangerously low inflation, have engaged on programmes of quantitative easing. A widening of interest rate differentials with the US, increasing the chance of further currency depreciation, is likely at the margin to make their task easier.

True, the eurozone and Japanese economies are not particularly open to trade, and hence the exchange rate is one of the lesser channels for monetary policy. But nonetheless, with the leadership of both central banks keen to show results for their monetary experiment, the Fed taking off in a different direction is likely to help.

The impact is more ambiguous for the Bank of England. Having embarked on its own QE programme earlier than the ECB or BoJ and been rewarded with steady growth, the BoE finds itself in a position closer to the Fed’s, debating the timing of its first rise rather than whether to extend easing.

Mark Carney, the BoE’s governor, has had less success with managing expectations than Ms Yellen. Having adopted and then quit “forward guidance” for interest rates based on unemployment, he this year predicted that the decision to tighten policy would “come into sharper relief” around now.

Mr Carney may have spoken too soon in signalling rate rises that did not arrive. Yet in practice his BoE has sensibly allowed the monthly data to determine decisions. There are good reasons for the BoE not to follow the Fed, notably that weak global growth may affect an open economy like the UK more than the US.

The reality is that the synchronised global economic cycles of past decades are not repeating themselves this time round. Policymaking should reflect that. The Fed raising rates just before Christmas may sound like the birth of a new era. But for wise central banks in the developed world, an event long prophesied is not a star they should find themselves compelled to follow.
   COfed : Federal Reserve Board   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | e12 : Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTCOM00020151218ebci007ep  



 HDEmerging market currency rally rolls on   BYJoel Lewin      WC400 words   PD18 December 2015   ET10:54   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All rights reserved. Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the web.   
   LPEmerging market currencies have been nervously sliding in anticipation of a US interest rate rise throughout this year, but when the moment actually came, they stood their ground. They were firm yesterday and they’re even firmer today, racking up some healthy gains as oil arrests its slide and markets expect the US Federal Reserve will have to raise rates at a much slower pace than it anticipates.

While the dollar index is flat and the euro isn’t moving against the greenback, the dollar is giving way to emerging market currencies from the rand to the ringgit, writes Joel Lewin.
   TDThe dollar is down 0.6 per cent against the South African rand, 0.7 per cent against the Malaysian ringgit, 0.6 per cent against the Indonesian rupiah and 0.1 per cent against the Indian rupiah.

And with Brent crude up 0.3 per cent today at $37.19, the rouble, badly ravaged in recent weeks, is unchanged against the dollar.

Although the Fed’s closely scrutinised dots – the projections of individual policymakers on the US central bank’s rate setting committee – indicate the bank expects to raise rates four times next year, interest rate futures markets are pricing in just two rises, and emerging market currencies are getting a lift from this anticipated dovishness.

In September, EM-fuelled market wobbles prevented the Fed from raising rates, and as it remains ‘data dependent’, emerging market currencies can expect to be protected from hikes at inconvenient times, says Simon Quijano-Evans at Commerzbank:

EM assets should be relatively happy, given the Fed’s future rate-hiking path will remain dependent on quarterly US data and USD action. All the more so, as that implicitly should mean less US rate-hiking pressure at times when: 1) any EM FX weakness translates into tighter US monetary conditions (through a correspondingly stronger USD) and/or 2) EM/China deflation passes through into the US equation.

He adds:

EM reaction to the Fed’s rate hike has been very tame, with the main relative moves being commodity-price driven. Indeed, as we move into the coming weeks, higher-yielding stories will probably be doing some outperformance, given the “over-reaction” in the pre-Fed weeks that already should be pricing in quite a bit more than the Fed’s guidance for 2016 rate hikes…

 
   COfed : Federal Reserve Board   NSm132 : Foreign Exchange News | e1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter   REsafr : South Africa | usa : United States | africaz : Africa | bric : BRICS Countries | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | namz : North America | souafrz : Southern Africa   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTCOM00020151218ebci002mh  



 HDFed’s rising tide fails to lift emerging market boats   BYJonathan Wheatley      WC735 words   PD17 December 2015   ET19:48   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All rights reserved. Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the web.   
   LPIf emerging markets hoped to wake up on the day after Fed lift-off to a new world of resurgent growth, they will have been disappointed.

The first EM central bank to move after the US Federal Reserve’s first interest rate rise for almost a decade was Taiwan. But rather than follow the Fed, it cut its policy interest rate on Thursday — to 1.625 per cent from 1.75 per cent.
   TDThe move took most market analysts by surprise, even though for many it merely confirmed a broader trend: like other EM economies, Taiwan expects sluggish growth at best in 2016 as it battles with falling demand for its exports.

Frederic Neumann, co-head of Asian economic research at HSBC in Hong Kong, expects other central banks in the region to follow suit, easing their monetary policies while the Fed tightens.

“The big elephant in the room is China,” he said. “Ten years ago, when the Fed hiked, the US tide lifted all boats. Now, things are different.”

As China’s economy continues to slow in 2016, he says, it will apply a handbrake to growth in Asia, pushing other central banks to enact looser monetary policies. He expects rate cuts in China, South Korea, Indonesia and also, possibly, in India, which is seen by many as one of Asia’s brightest growth prospects.

Indonesia’s central bank kept its policy rate unchanged at 7.5 per cent on Thursday, perhaps to avoid turbulence in the Fed’s immediate wake. But with both inflation and economic growth slowing, a cut in early 2016 looks increasingly likely.

Other countries, such as Malaysia and Thailand, also face slowing growth, but may be prevented from cutting rates by high borrowing costs that would rise still further were their currencies to go on depreciating against the US dollar.

Across the Pacific, in Mexico, whose economy is closely tied to the US, the central bank was widely expected to follow the Fed’s lead. But in Brazil, where the economy will contract by up to 4 per cent this year, policymakers would like nothing more than to bring the headline rate down from its current heights of 14.25 per cent. Double-digit inflation, however, may force the central bank to raise rates even further.

Other EMs have similar problems that are unlikely to change in the light of the Fed’s actions or modest US growth.

“It’s true that when US rates go up because of stronger US growth, EMs should be able to gain on the current account [through trade] what they lose on the capital account [through outflows],” said David Lubin, head of EM economics at Citi. “But historically, there is not much evidence of investors using that argument to stay calm about EM.”

Mr Lubin says the impact of Fed tightening will be felt most keenly in China and not in the “usual suspects” of troubled economies such as Brazil, South Africa and Turkey, whose currencies and other financial assets hardly budged in reaction to the Fed. This demonstrated the extent to which investors had “priced in” one of the most widely anticipated events in recent market history.

A weaker renminbi, and rising US rates, will encourage more Chinese residents to put their money into dollars and other assets outside China, resulting in more capital outflows. China’s tightly managed currency has fallen almost 4 per cent against the US dollar this year, in what has widely been seen as an attempt by Beijing to support its economy as it makes the difficult transition from investment to consumption as the main driver of growth.

If the renminbi continues to weaken, it will further undermine growth in other emerging economies that will struggle to compete.

However, this does not necessarily mean EMs will embark on a round of competitive devaluations to battle for export markets.

“That won’t work this time,” said Mr Neumann. “Global demand is just too weak.”

It does mean that EMs are unlikely to raise rates, whatever the Fed’s actions say about US growth.

Instead, policymakers are faced with tackling difficult issues, such as public spending and labour market regulation, which they ignored during the recent boom years of high commodity prices and cheap global credit.

“The game is up,” says Mr Neumann. “We need structural reforms.”
   COfed : Federal Reserve Board   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News   REchina : China | usa : United States | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTCOM00020151217ebch008vh  



 HDMarkets applaud Fed rate lift   BYPatrick McGee      WC904 words   PD17 December 2015   ET03:58   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All rights reserved. Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the web.   
   LPThe Federal Reserve’s first interest rate rise in nearly a decade was met by thunderous applause in Asia-Pacific equity markets, as the US central bank signalled it was optimistic about the prospects for economic growth heading into 2016.

Japan’s Nikkei 225 rose 2.4 per cent in early trading, while Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 added 1.8 per cent, Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index gained 1.3 per cent, Taiwan’s Taiex climbed 1.1 per cent and the Shanghai Composite added 1.2 per cent.
   TDEven in emerging markets, which are expected to struggle from capital outflows as the Fed continues to raise rates, drawing investors back with the lure of higher yields, reaction was positive. Malaysia’s benchmark rose 0.6 per cent, the Philippines’ index jumped 1.9 per cent and Indonesia’s Jakarta Composite added 1.3 per cent.

“This initial reaction suggests that the Fed did a good job in telegraphing the hike,” said analysts at Barclays. “The improvement in risk appetite following the Fed hike also helped emerging market currencies to absorb the hike easily. In the near term as trading winds down for the year and flows thin, there may be further respite for EM Asia currencies, but we do not expect this to persist into 2016.”

 

Anders Faergemann, senior sovereign portfolio manager for emerging markets debt at Pinebridge Investments, said the decision was a relief because it provided some clarity for investors in those markets.

“Emerging market economies broadly require interest rates to remain low for longer to support economic growth and to fight persistently low inflation,” he added. “The question everyone needs to answer is: Can the US economy drag emerging markets economies out of their growth slump?”

The US central bank announced a quarter-point increase in the target range for the federal funds rate to 0.25-0.5 per cent, lifting it from the historic lows it has occupied since December 2008, when the US was mired in an economic crisis that would ultimately drive unemployment to 10 per cent.

“This action marks the end of an extraordinary seven-year period,” said Janet Yellen, chair of the Fed. “It also recognises the considerable progress that has been made toward restoring jobs, raising incomes and easing the economic hardship of millions of Americans.”

The move coincided with signs of a steady US recovery, as consumer spending growth holds firm and unemployment stands at just 5 per cent, lower than the 5.3 per cent rate that was prevailing when the Fed last kick-started an interest rate raising cycle in 2004.

The focus on the Fed will now turn to how quickly it plans to normalise interest rates. Policymakers expect only “gradual” future increases in the federal funds rate after Wednesday’s move, the Fed said in a statement.

“There is still a significant wedge between where the Fed is telling us it sees rates going and what the market is pricing in,” said Andrew Colquhoun, head of Asia-Pacific Sovereigns at Fitch Ratings. “An out-turn closer to Fed guidance would be a substantial shock for a region where private sector debt levels have risen rapidly and where capital flows have already started to reverse. This uncertainty puts a premium on credible and coherent policy responses by authorities in buffering sovereign credit profiles.”

In the US, the two-year Treasury yield rose to more than 1 per cent for the first time since 2010. The S&P 500 stock market index extended its gain to 1.5 per cent for the day, bringing it back into positive territory for the year.

The dollar originally slipped against multiple currencies but in Asia hours its surged. The dollar index, which measures the currency against a basket of global rivals, rose 0.9 per cent to 98.763. The euro fell 0.6 per cent to $1.0852 and the yen weakened 0.3 per cent to 122.55 per dollar.

As the dollar gained, the People’s Bank of China weakened the renminbi yet again. The PBoC set the fix, or mid-rate around which the renminbi is allowed to trade each day, 0.2 per cent weaker at 6.4757 per dollar. That 5.88 per cent softer than where the renminbi was valued before the bungled mid-August “devaluation,” and it’s also the weakest fix since mid-July 2011.

Beijing has already allowed the tightly-controlled currency to fall for six consecutive weeks and last Friday it opened the door to further depreciation when it released a new index that gauges the renminbi’s value against a basket of currencies instead of just the US dollar.

The price of gold fell 0.5 per cent in early Thursday trade to $1,067.33 an ounce. Brent crude oil, the international oil benchmark, rose 0.2 per cent in Asia to $37.28 a barrel, after tumbling by 3.3 per cent on Wednesday. West Texas Intermediate, the US benchmark, fell 4.9 per cent on Wednesday and extended the decline another 0.1 per cent in Asia to $35.50 a barrel.

“A potential further decline in oil prices from current levels remains the biggest ‘known unknown’ and has the potential to weigh on EM assets globally, especially on the commodity exporters,” said the Barclays analysts.
   COfed : Federal Reserve Board   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | m11 : Equity Markets | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | e1101 : Economic Growth | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTCOM00020151217ebch000ul  



 HDUS Treasury yields rise as Fed raises rates   BYRichard Blackden      WC151 words   PD16 December 2015   ET20:04   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All rights reserved. Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the web.   
   LPUS government bond yields are rising, pushing the yield on the two-year note above 1 per cent, after the Federal Reserve raised its key interest rate for for the first time since 2006.

In the minutes after the Fed announced its decision, the yield on the two-year note climbed 4 basis points to 1 per cent. Meanwhile, the euro dipped against the euro to trade at $1.0913.
   TDThe dollar has been a chief beneficiary of expectations not only that the Fed will lift interest rates, but that it will do so as other major central banks, including the European Central Bank and the Bank of Japan, loosen monetary policy further.

The dollar index, which is a gauge of the greenback against the currencies of America’s largest trading partners, is up by almost a quarter since July 2014.

 

 

 

 

 
   COfed : Federal Reserve Board | usdtr : United States Department of the Treasury   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | mntdbt : National Government Debt/Bond Markets | e52 : Euro Zone/Currency | gvtre : Treasury Department | e12 : Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | gvexe : Executive Branch | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTCOM00020151216ebcg0083r  



 HDFed rate rise: a reminder of the world in 2006   BYAdam Samson      WC341 words   PD16 December 2015   ET20:14   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All rights reserved. Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the web.   
   LPThe Federal Reserve has raised its key interest rate for the first time since 2006, a year when sub-prime had yet to become a toxic word and Lehman Brothers was valued at a cool $41bn. Here’s a look back at some key events of that year.

Financial
   TD* Lehman Brothers market value: $41.4bn (according to data from Howard Silverblatt, senior index analyst at S&P Dow Jones Indicies).

* S&P 500 closed the year up 13.6 per cent at 1,418.3.

* US dollar index finished down 8.3 per cent to 83.7.

* FTSE 100 ended up 10.7 per cent to 6,220.8.

* Top S&P 500 performers for the year: Intercontinental Exchange, Illumina, Akami Technologies

* Bottom S&P 500 performers for the year: Whole Foods Market, Yahoo, Sandisk

Financial data source: Bloomberg

Politics

* In March, Michele Bachelet is inaugurated as the first female president of Chile.

* Fidel Castro hands power over to brother Raul – temporarily.

* Almost 200 killed in terror attacks in Mumbai, India.

* North Korea claims to have tested its first nuclear weapon.

* Former Iraqi leader Saddam Hussein sentenced to death.

* Former Russian spy Alexander Litvinenko is poisoned in London.

* Democrats win majority in US House of Representatives.

Sports

* Barry Bonds hits 715th home run to eclipse Babe Ruth’s record.

* Italy beats France 5-3 on penalties in World Cup Final after 1-1 draw.

* Roger Federerwins fourth-straight Wimbledon, beating Rafael Nadal.

* Pittsburgh Steelerstop Seattle Seahawks in Super Bowl XL.

* St. Louis Cardinals unexpectedly beat Detroit Tigers in World Series upset.

Pop culture

* Finland’s Lordi wins Eurovision song contest in Athens with ‘Hard Rock Hallelujah’

* Top of the Pops ends a run of 42 years on TV in the UK

* Paul McCartney & Heather Mills end marriage after four years

* ‘Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Man’s Chest’ tops US box office for 2006

* ‘Crash’ awarded Best Motion Picture of the Year

 
   COwhofoo : Whole Foods Market Inc   INi64 : Retail/Wholesale | i641 : Food Retailing | i654 : Specialty Stores | iretail : Retail   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTCOM00020151216ebcg0086o  



 HDFed rate rise is a threat to emerging markets   WC607 words   PD17 December 2015   ET19:34   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All rights reserved. Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the web.   
   LPA momentous era in monetary history is over. A hike in short-term US interest rates for the first time in nearly a decade has called an end to the near-zero borrowing costs that have prevailed since the financial crisis. Equity investors welcomed the move, sending stock prices higher in the US, Europe and Asia. Even emerging markets, many of which have feared the fallout from a US rise, generally took the widely expected move in their stride.
   TDThe short-term reaction, however, should not obscure the fundamental challenge that a tightening in US monetary policy poses to developing economies that together account for about 35 per cent of global gross domestic product. If the Federal Reserve’s tightening trajectory is sustained in 2016 — and its own forecast suggests that it should be — the impact on two particularly vulnerable aspects could prove considerable. One of these is the unwinding of a huge emerging market borrowing boom that was fuelled by US-inspired easy money. Another is that China, beset by record capital outflows, could be forced to allow a deep depreciation of its currency, the renminbi.

The dimensions of the debt problem are forbidding. Some $9tn in capital has flowed into emerging markets since early 2005, inflating domestic debt levels to an unprecedented 160 per cent of GDP, up from just over 100 per cent before the financial crisis, according to data compiled by the Institute of International Finance, an industry association that has members in 70 countries. Most of this debt has piled up on the balance sheets of non-financial companies, which now owe around $24tn, or 90 per cent of total emerging market GDP. Households, which have also gorged themselves on cheap money, have built up debts of about $8tn, equivalent to another 30 per cent of GDP.

The danger now is that tightening US policy will foist a credit crunch on to emerging markets, increasing corporate defaults. Indeed, the squeeze already under way is stiffening. Emerging market companies are being asked to pay more to service debts, while sources of finance are dwindling, according to the investment bank arm of HSBC. Reinforcing these effects is evidence that the surge of capital that flowed into emerging markets over the past decade has started to reverse. The IIF forecasts that, for the first time since 1988, developing countries will suffer a net capital outflow this year.

Of course, the impact is not being felt evenly throughout emerging markets. Most exposed are countries such as Brazil, Indonesia, Russia and South Africa, which rely on a drip-feed of international capital to service ballooning domestic deficits and corporate profligacy. In addition, companies that have borrowed heavily in US dollars but earn incomes in their local currency are particularly vulnerable to the prospect of a stronger dollar backed by a more hawkish Fed.

China presents a challenge of a different nature. Its monetary cycle is out of kilter with that of the Fed, with analysts predicting that Beijing will cut its benchmark interest rate twice during 2016. Such loosening, coupled with capital outflows that surged to a monthly record of $113bn in November, may add to pressures on the renminbi to depreciate against the US dollar next year. If this happens, history has shown that an Asia-centred currency war may well erupt.

For these reasons, policymakers, executives and investors should guard against reading this week’s initial reaction to the Fed’s hike as a long-term trend. If the Fed maintains its tightening course, emerging markets could be laid low by a receding tide of money.
   NSe12 : Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTCOM00020151217ebch008sp  



 HDEurope’s emerging market banks lead financial stocks rally   BYMichael Hunter      WC657 words   PD17 December 2015   ET10:13   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All rights reserved. Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the web.   
   LPFinancial stocks led European equities higher on Thursday, tracking strong overnight gains on Wall Street as global stock markets rallied after the Federal Reserve lifted US interest rates.

Banks focused on emerging markets made some of the most notable gains, on hopes that the gradual nature of the US central bank’s plans to normalise monetary policy would limit the wider international impact of the process.
   TDCapital flows into emerging markets rose during the period of zero interest rates which followed the financial crisis as investors chased yield. The concept of a “dovish rate rise” process eased fears about the potential turbulence tighter US monetary policy could cause, and Fed chair Janet Yellen pledged to keep watch on the international reaction to the central bank’s policy.

Shares in Old Mutual, the London-listed South African bank, rose 6.5 per cent and topped the leaderboard of the international Euro Stoxx 600. Standard Chartered, the UK-listed lender focused on Asian markets, gained 2.9 per cent.

Analysis from Citibank described the Fed’s action as a “neutral hike for emerging markets”. Dirk Willer, head of emerging market strategy at Citigroup, said after it: “Risk assets behaved well all around: on the equity side, the credit side and the emerging markets foreign exchange side.”

European financials were stronger across the board. The warm reaction on global markets to the Fed’s policy announcement comes at the same time the European Central Bank is running economic stimulus, leaving the sector in something of a sweet spot.

Tony Cross, market analyst at Trustnet Direct, said the lingering supply of “cheap money” from the ECB left eurozone banks “better able to seek better returns and more accurately price risk into the equation”.

HSBC, the region’s biggest by market value, rose 2 per cent, taking its shares back to their highest level of the month, last seen in the first week of December. France’s Natixis rose 3.7 per cent, while Amsterdam-listed insurer Aegon was 4 per cent higher. Deutsche Bank gained 2 per cent.

US financial stocks strode higher overnight, helping to open the way for Europe’s advance. S&P financials largely erased their losses for the month in Wall Street’s rally, taking the sector 4.2 per cent over the week and the rally into its third session.

Overall, the Euro Stoxx 600 rose 1.9 per cent to 367.20, a six-session high.

“Investors are taking a modicum of confidence from the US move,” said Mike McCudden, head of derivatives at Interactive Investor.

“Janet Yellen’s dovish tone has investors more relieved than anything else. Whether or not this rally has legs remains to be seen, but with warning signs continuing to emanate from China, those joining the party too late could be in for a rude awakening.”

Mr Cross concluded: “An interest rate hike is typically seen as bad news for stocks, but this time it’s different. Firstly it draws a line under the economic crisis and secondly it gets the uncertainty out of the way.”

UK housebuilding stocks were an exception. The Bank of England has long been seen as reluctant to raise rates before its US counterpart, and Wednesday’s move from the Fed was seen as opening the way for the BoE to follow, even if it did not bring the timing of a UK rate rise any closer.

Nonetheless, the prospect of more expensive home loans after action from the Monetary Policy Committee in 2016 cast a shadow over the sector, which also looked ripe for profit-taking after its strong rally over 2015. Berkeley Group led the selling, also facing extra pressure as its shares traded without rights to the latest dividend payment. The stock lost 6 per cent, the biggest decline on the FTSE 100, which rose 1.3 per cent overall.
   COfed : Federal Reserve Board   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services   NSc1522 : Share Price Movement/Disruptions | m11 : Equity Markets | e1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Monetary Policy | c15 : Financial Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ecat : Economic News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter   REusa : United States | eurz : Europe | namz : North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTCOM00020151217ebch0038p  



 HDThe US in 10 charts since Fed last raised rates   BYAdam Samson      WC68 words   PD16 December 2015   ET19:31   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All rights reserved. Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the web.   
   LPIt’s been an interesting ride for the US economy since the Federal Reserve last raised interest rates in 2006. fastFT charts the change in several closely-watched indicators since then.

Labour market
   TDEconomic growth

Inflation

Housing market

The Fed’s benchmark interest rate

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Fed’s balance sheet

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

US stocks

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Global stocks

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Treasury yields

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Oil prices
   COfed : Federal Reserve Board   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | e12 : Monetary Policy   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTCOM00020151216ebcg007sl  



 HDBanks raise prime rates after Fed move   BYAnna Nicolaou in New York      WC767 words   PD16 December 2015   ET16:04   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All rights reserved. Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the web.   
   LPThe first Fed rate rise in nine years will push mortgage rates higher in 2016, economists say, potentially discouraging already-scant numbers of first time buyers as the US home ownership rate hovers near a 50-year low.

The big banks began raising prime rates — used as a reference rate for a range of consumer loans— just after the Fed announcement on Wednesday: Wells Fargo, JPMorgan, Bank of America and PNC Bank lifted their base rates to 3.5 per cent from 3.25 per cent.
   TDMost economists do not expect the quarter point interest rate rise to lead to rocketing mortgage costs, as they did during the “taper tantrum” of 2013 damaging the housing market in the process. About four-fifths of economists surveyed by Bloomberg expect Federal Reserve tightening will boost 30-year mortgage rates next year, with projections of a rise from about 4 per cent currently to between 4.5 per cent-5 per cent by the end of 2016.

But the most pain will be felt by the first time homebuyer, says Michael Gapen, chief US economist at Barclays, as rising rates could push the American dream of home ownership further out of reach for young people seeking affordable starter homes.

“They will be squeezed. If mortgage rates go up a little it will affect them more, because they already qualify for less,” said Mr Gapen

First time buyers have been a missing piece in the US housing recovery, with many ‘millennials’ — saddled with tight lending, student debt and memories of massive foreclosures seen among their parents’ generation — reluctant to buy. The share of first-time homebuyers in the housing market fell to 32 per cent this year, its lowest since 1987.

Shoppers for lower-priced homes are more sensitive to changes in mortgage rates. A November survey by Redfin, a property broker, found that 71 per cent of those looking for homes priced at $250,000 or less said mortgage rates were either “very important” or “important”, while 53 per cent of those aiming at homes in the $1m to $2m range said so.

Even assuming a gentle pace of tightening which the Fed has pledged, a modest rise in long term mortgage rates may still curb sales in what has been a fragile housing recovery. A 100 basis point jump in mortgage rates would equate to a 7 per cent dip in home sales, says Lawrence Yun, an economist at the National Association of Realtors. Mr Yun added that he expects the 30-year mortgage rate to rise 70 bps to 4.7 per cent by the end of 2016.

Shares in big banks and mortgage reits climbed on Thursday amid expectations that the rise in rates will help their business: Wells Fargo, the biggest private mortgage issuer in the US, climbed 1.7 per cent, Goldman Sachs rose 2.3 per cent, and JPMorgan gained 2.1 per cent. Mortgage reits rose 3.3 per cent. Mortgage reits gained 3.3 per cent.

While the housing sector, which sparked the Great Recession, has subsequently lagged behind in a broader economic recovery, a cooler property market is a risk the Fed seems willing to take. Fed chair Janet Yellen has already warned that housing “is likely to improve only gradually”.

Home prices have roared back in many cities, with the pace of new home sales reaching seven-year highs over the summer, supported by ultra-low interest rates and jobs growth. But stricter lending standards, a thin supply of affordable homes, and stagnant incomes have shifted many towards renting rather than buying. The home ownership rate in the US ticked up to 63.7 per cent in the third quarter, just above the 63.4 per cent seen in the second quarter — its lowest level since 1967.

But most economists agree the housing recovery won’t be derailed by Fed tightening, arguing that a one or two per cent jump in mortgage rates still leaves them historically low. Some of this may already priced into markets in anticipation of the Fed’s move: 30-year fixed mortgage rates averaged 3.94 per cent in November, up from 3.64 per cent in January.

Moreover, the reason behind the rate rise — strong economic growth — should support homebuying in future.

Rising rates will be felt the most in cities with high costs of living and a dearth of affordable housing, such as New York, San Francisco, and Boston. But, says Mr Yun, “job creation will partially neutralise that negative impact”.
   COpncbk : PNC Bank | fed : Federal Reserve Board | pitnat : PNC Financial Services Group Inc   INibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services | i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking   NSe1121 : Home Sales/Housing Affordability | e1202 : Interest Rates | ereal : Real Estate Markets | emort : Mortgage Rate | eprime : Prime Rate | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTCOM00020151216ebcg0060p  



 HDThe  Federal Reserve  Decision: Fed Explains The Mechanics Of Its Tools For Rate Liftoff   BYBy Michael S. Derby      WC311 words   PD17 December 2015   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGA9   LAEnglish   CYCopyright © 2015, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.   
   LPThe Federal Reserve explained in greater detail Wednesday how it plans to raise short-term interest rates, including a significant potential increase in the size of one of the programs involved.

Policy makers' decision to start lifting their short-term rate target from near zero puts into play a new and largely untested set of tools for influencing borrowing costs.
   TDThe Fed said it would raise the target range for its benchmark federal-funds rate by a quarter percentage point, to 0.25%-0.50%. It plans to use two rates to set the upper and lower bounds of the range.

It will seek to set the top of the range by raising the interest rate it pays deposit-taking banks on the money, called reserves, that they park overnight at the central bank. The so-called IOER rate will be lifted to 0.50% from 0.25%.

The Fed will try to set the lower bound with the interest rate it pays institutions such as money-market funds on so-called reverse repurchase agreements. Through the program, the Fed borrows money overnight in exchange for Treasurys owned by the central bank. It will raise the repo rate to 0.25% from 0.05%.

The Fed also lifted the daily cap on the reverse repo program to around $2 trillion from $300 billion.

Using these tools, the Fed will seek to drain money from the financial system, moving rates higher to prevent the economy from overheating.

In recent decades, the Fed adjusted the fed-funds rate by buying or selling Treasurys, which increased or reduced banks' reserves. But the large amount of reserves added to the system since the crisis made this tool less effective.

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   COfed : Federal Reserve Board   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | ecat : Economic News | gvbod : Government Bodies | e12 : Monetary Policy | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCFED | USG | NND | TPT   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument J000000020151217ebch0002n  



 HDU.S. News: Fed Move Gets Mixed Reaction From Central Banks   BYBy Harriet Torry      WC631 words   PD18 December 2015   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGA6   LAEnglish   CYCopyright © 2015, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.   
   LPCentral banks around the world had mixed reactions to the Federal Reserve's first increase in short-term interest rates in nearly a decade. Some, including Mexico's and Chile's, opted to increase their own borrowing costs, while others held them steady.

A number of central banks reacted immediately to the Fed move with interest-rate increases of their own in a bid to keep their currencies competitive. Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, the United Arab Emirates and Bahrain all raised their base rate in lockstep with the U.S. move, while the Hong Kong Monetary Authority matched the Fed by raising its base rate by a quarter-percentage point to 0.75% from 0.50%. The territory's currency peg to the U.S. dollar ties its monetary policy to that of the U.S.
   TDAnticipation of higher interest rates and stronger growth in the U.S. have pushed up the value of the dollar over the past year. That in turn has hit companies in emerging markets that borrowed heavily in dollars during the low-rate period. A stronger U.S. currency is making it more expensive to pay off those debts.

The Bank of Mexico also raised interest rates Thursday for the first time since 2008 to avoid further pressure on the peso after a sharp depreciation this year. Despite record-low inflation and relatively slow growth, the central bank lifted the overnight interest rate target by a quarter percentage point to 3.25%.

Bank of Mexico Gov. Agustin Carstens, who also chairs the policy advisory committee of the International Monetary Fund, said Thursday that the orderly reaction so far in emerging markets to the Fed's rate increase could be sustained. "But there is constant news that could have an impact on markets," he said in a telephone interview.

Chile's central bank raised its benchmark interest rate by a quarter percentage point to 3.5%. Many economists had expected it to keep its rate on hold after inflation eased back to within its target range of between 2% and 4% last month. But the central bank said it expected inflation to rise above its upper target range again in the short term.

European Central Bank Governing Council member Ewald Nowotny on Thursday said the Fed decision doesn't warrant an immediate reaction from the ECB. Mr. Nowotny said the Fed's decision was part of the ECB's expectations that it had at its most recent meeting, where it decided to expand its quantitative-easing program. Meanwhile, central banks of Norway, Indonesia and the Philippines decided to hold rates steady.

Bank Indonesia director Juda Agung said it was too early to assess the impact of the Fed's decision on its financial market and economy. But he signaled the central bank might ease its stance, either through rate cuts or other measures in January, depending on economic data. Another Southeast Asian economy, Vietnam, cut the interest rate of dollar-denominated deposits offered by local banks starting Friday in reaction to the Fed's move in an attempt to discourage people from holding the U.S. currency.

The Fed's rate increase marks the start of a bout of divergence between the U.S. and central banks in the eurozone and China, which are pursuing expansionary policies. While British central-bank officials have signaled that the time to raise their benchmark interest rate from its historic low of 0.5% is drawing nearer, a move remains some way off. The U.K. economy slowed in the third quarter, while wage growth and inflation have been persistently weak.

---

Juan Montes and Ryan Dube contributed to this article.

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   COhkmoat : Hong Kong Monetary Authority | eurcb : European Central Bank | fed : Federal Reserve Board   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Monetary Policy | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | ecat : Economic News | gvbod : Government Bodies | m131 : Money Markets | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | bahrn : Bahrain | chil : Chile | eurz : Europe | indon : Indonesia | kuwait : Kuwait | mex : Mexico | norw : Norway | phlns : Philippines | saarab : Saudi Arabia | uae : United Arab Emirates | vietn : Vietnam | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | gulfstz : Persian Gulf Region | indochz : Indo-China | lamz : Latin America | meastz : Middle East | namz : North America | nordz : Nordic Countries | samz : South America | scandz : Scandinavia | seasiaz : Southeast Asia | wasiaz : Western Asia   IPCFED | IGV | UKBK | UKGV | USG | NND | TPT | USN   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument J000000020151218ebci0002q  



 HDFed Poised To Raise Rates in End of Era   BYBy Jon Hilsenrath     WC1,288 words   PD16 December 2015   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGA1   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.  
   CXCorrections & Amplifications

The Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 105% between the time the Federal Reserve pushed short-term interest rates to near zero in December 2008 and its policy meeting Wednesday. A Page One rticle Wednesday about the meeting incorrectly said it rose 65% during that period.

(WSJ December 19, 2015)

(END)
   LPThe Federal Reserve's likely decision Wednesday to raise short-term borrowing costs will mark the end of an era of zero interest rates, a period of extraordinary policy experimentation that has yielded mixed results.

Despite the Fed's aggressive efforts to spur the economy since the 2008 financial crisis, it has delivered neither the vigorous expansion it wanted nor the disasters its critics feared. In the process, the central bank emerged less like an all-powerful force and more like so many other institutions that have struggled in recent years to keep up with events.
   TD"It was in fact a period of great uncertainty and insecurity for the Fed," the central bank's former chairman, Ben Bernanke, said in an interview.

The Fed pinned short-term interest rates near zero for seven years and added trillions of dollars in mortgage and Treasury bonds through largely untested programs known as quantitative easing to its portfolio to lower long-term rates.

Low rates, by encouraging investment and spending, helped spark an economic expansion now 78 months old, longer than all but four expansions ever recorded. The jobless rate, at 5%, is half its recession peak and half where the rate in Europe remains. A broad measure of unemployment that accounts for discouraged workers and part-timers who want full-time jobs, has fallen to 9.9% from 17.1%; this measure is as low as it has been since mid-2008, though still elevated historically.

Output and income growth have been disappointing. In one rate-sensitive sector, autos, sales are booming. In another, residential housing, a recovery has been extraordinarily slow.

After-tax incomes adjusted for inflation have expanded at a 1.8% annual rate in this expansion, slower than the average rate of 3.3% during the previous three. Had income grown at the historical rates, Americans would have had $1.2 trillion more at their disposal.

"The economy didn't do great," said Michael Bordo, an economic historian at Rutgers University in New Jersey. "We had a slow recovery."

New threats now loom. A junk-bond boom is fizzling and could do broader damage to the economy. Other sectors, such as commercial real estate and auto lending, are heating up and could reverse, too. Demand for credit fueled by low rates is a common ingredient in each case.

"The faster and faster central bankers press the monetary button, the greater and greater the relative risk of owning financial assets," Bill Gross, bond portfolio manager at Janus Capital Group, said in a December commentaryon the looming rate increase.

Still, several warnings by Fed critics have proven wrong. Many expected more inflation. Instead consumer price inflation averaged 1.5% annually since the Fed pushed rates to zero, below the Fed's 2% goal. In October it was up just 0.2% from a year earlier, according to the central bank's preferred gauge.

In a letter to then-Chairman Bernanke in November 2010, a group of hedge-fund managers and economists warned that the Fed risked devaluing the U.S. currency. The dollar instead has increased 22% in value against a broad basket of other currencies since then,because the U.S. economy is doing better than many others.

Gregory Hess was an economist at Claremont McKenna College in California in 2010 and one of the signers to the letter. In 2013, he became president at Wabash College in Indiana. Low rates didn't cause the inflation he warned of, but they did help a $25 million dormitory expansion and renovation project at Wabash funded in part by loans fixed at 2% for several years.

"Capital costs have been low and that is attractive," he said. "Lots of colleges have made expansions to make their campuses more attractive. They have brought forward a lot of projects."

Still, he said he remained worried about the risks the Fed has taken with the economy and with its own reputation. "Eight years is a long time for the Federal Reserve to be engaging in such continued activist policies," he said, referring to the rate cuts and emergency measures taken since 2007 as the financial crisis started hitting the economy.

The Fed traditionally moves interest rates up and down to try to rebalance the economy. During a recession it moves rates lower to encourage households and businesses to borrow, spend, invest and hire, spurring economic activity. During expansions it raises rates to restrain spending, investment and inflation. When it pushed rates to zero in 2008, it took additional steps to amplify its actions, buying bonds and promising to keep rates down.

Mr. Bernanke, in his book "Courage to Act," held out all of Europe as an example of the alternative the Fed didn't choose. The European Central Bank raised rates twice in 2011, but later lowered one of its key rates below zero. Its unemployment rate remains above 10%.

Even the Fed has had to retrace its efforts. It launched five variations of bond-purchase programs and regularly revised the guidance it gave the public about how long rates would stay low. "They kept changing their story," said Mr. Bordo.

Ultimately, the Fed's easy-money policies have had risks and rewards. Because rates on low-risk investments like Treasury bonds are so low, investors have reached to other asset classes for better returns. The Dow Jones Industrial Average is up 65% since the Fed pushed short-term rates to near zero. Commercial real-estate prices are up 93% since then, according to Moody's.

The commercial real-estate boom is showing up right on top of a Fed branch building in Seattle. Martin Selig Real Estate, a Washington state investment firm, bought an empty six-story Fed building for $16 million from the government earlier this year. It proposes to turn it into a high rise, placing 44 levels of office and residential space on top of it, funded in part by a construction loan of $175 million to $200 million, with an interest rate set initially near 3%.

"If you have a good project, you can get funded," said the firm's namesake.

A related risk is the debt often associated with asset booms. Debt in the household sector and financial sectors fell from 2008 peaks, but has started rising again. Business borrowing is up 25% since late 2010, according to Fed data.

Many Fed officials believe these were risks worth taking. With high unemployment early in the expansion, "if you're not courting a little bit of risk, you're not working hard enough," Jeremy Stein, a Harvard professor and former Fed governor, said in an interview.

Research by University of Chicago economist Jing Cynthia Wu and Merrill Lynch economist Fan Dora Xia said the Fed's easy-money policies pushed the unemployment rate down an extra percentage point by late 2013. A study by Fed staff found the policies reduced the jobless rate 1.75 percentage points.

As unemployment fell, Mr. Stein, who served at the Fed from 2012 to 2014, pressed for an end to the bond buying, worried in part about risks of another bubble. Whether it actually caused one, he said, isn't yet known. "The full story won't be really told until we see how this exit goes," he said.

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   COfed : Federal Reserve Board   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | gvbod : Government Bodies | ncrx : Corrected Items | npag : Page-One Stories | e12 : Monetary Policy | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | ncat : Content Types   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCFED | USG | NND | PGO | TPT   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument J000000020151216ebcg0002t  



 HDThe  Federal Reserve  Decision: For Consumers, an Uneven Impact   BYBy Rachel Louise Ensign      WC710 words   PD17 December 2015   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGA6   LAEnglish   CYCopyright © 2015, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.   
   LPBig U.S. lenders said they would raise rates on some loans after the Federal Reserve lifted its benchmark interest rate by a quarter percentage point.

Depositors hoping for a bump in their savings rates will need to wait, though.
   TDJ.P. Morgan Chase & Co., Wells Fargo & Co., Bank of America Corp., Citigroup Inc. and other large banks said they would increase the prime rate, a key reference rate for a variety of loans including credit-card debt.

The moves reflected the Fed's decision to increase the federal-funds target rate from near zero, where it has been for the past seven years.

The Fed's decision marks the end of an era that had pinched banks' lending profits and forced them to change the way they do business. Lenders have anticipated that higher rates will provide an immediate boost to lending income, while also possibly helping loan demand.

But savers won't see benefits as quickly. As expected, banks didn't announce any corresponding increases in deposit rates to go with the rise in the prime rate.

The prime lending rate, which usually hovers above the fed-funds rate, will go to 3.5% from 3.25%. Other banks that announced a move included U.S. Bancorp, PNC Financial Services Group Inc., HSBC Holdings PLC and M&T Bank Corp. Most of the banks said the move would occur Thursday. Bank of America said it would increase its rate immediately.

In a rising-rate environment, deposit-rate increases typically lag behind increases in loan rates by months, which is why banks can make more money when rates go up. By contrast, the yields on money-market mutual funds rise more quickly, and some funds are expected to raise the rate on those savings products within days.

Banks have had a hard time predicting the rate at which customer defections force them to pay out a higher rate on deposits.

In periods of rate increases by the Fed over the past two decades, the average interest paid on deposits rose by about 0.25 percentage point over the first year, according to data by Bankrate.com.Over the same period, the prime rate rose much more.

This is now "a bigger question mark than ever," given new regulations that make certain deposits more valuable than others, said Erika Najarian, head of U.S. banks equity research at Bank of America's BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research.

In 2006, banks passed along 17% of the increase in rates to depositors over the next year, said Ms. Najarian. This time around, the figure could rise to 30% or so, she said,

While the move in interest rates won't help bank profits significantly unless it is followed by further rate increases, the decision is expected to give a jolt to some of the most interest-rate-sensitive banks. At Bank of America, Evercore ISI projects the incremental Fed move would lead to $621 million more in net interest income over a year.

Fed Chairwoman Janet Yellen said Wednesday that she expected the central bank would raise short-term interest rates gradually in coming months.

When the Fed lowered interest rates near zero in the wake of the financial crisis, it ushered in a difficult period for bank profits, even as the broader economy slowly recovered. Banks' lending profitability steadily declined through the recovery.

At larger U.S. banks, the net interest margin -- the difference between what banks charge borrowers and pay out to depositors -- has fallen from 3.89% in early 2010 to 2.92% in the third quarter of 2015, according to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.

Lenders tried to cope by cutting expenses and bolstering fee-based businesses that don't depend on interest rates.

Many banks had expected the rate increases to start earlier this year and took additional measures to maintain their bottom lines when that didn't happen. Some invested depositors' cash into higher-yielding, longer-term securities to counter the earnings pressure, a tactic that could backfire if those holdings lose value as rates rise.

---

Peter Rudegeair contributed to this article.

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   COncnbco : Bank of America Corporation | fed : Federal Reserve Board   INi814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | c173 : Financing Agreements | ecat : Economic News | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | c17 : Corporate Funding | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e12 : Monetary Policy | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter   REusa : United States | eurz : Europe | hkong : Hong Kong | use : Northeast U.S. | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | bric : BRICS Countries | china : China | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America   IPCABO | AEQI | BKG | CMR | DJCB | EWR | SGN | FCL | NND   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument J000000020151217ebch0002j  



 HDMoneyBeat: Rate Rise Winners and Losers   WC573 words   PD17 December 2015   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGC4   LAEnglish   CYCopyright © 2015, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.   
   LPThe Federal Reserve may have just knocked over the first domino.

The Fed's decision to raise rates on Wednesday will have broad repercussions for stocks and bonds, on Main Street and Wall Street, and for economies in all corners of the world.
   TDFor some, the impact could be felt right away, and for others, the shakeout may be felt more acutely over time, especially if the Fed follows the first rate rise with sustained tightening.

Here is a roundup from Wall Street Journal staffers about who wins and who loses when rates increase:

-- Banks. Lenders have been yearning for the Federal Reserve to start raising rates for years to stem the decline in their net interest margin, an important measure of banks' profitability. The interest rates banks charge on many loans are directly tied to the Fed's target rate, meaning they immediately earn more interest on those items, while deposit rates move more gradually. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. analysts recommends owning the stocks of banks whose depositors are likely to stick around: Bank of America Corp., J.P. Morgan Chase & Co., Wells Fargo & Co., PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. and E*Trade Financial Corp.

-- Peter Rudegeair

-- Gold. Prices slumped to five-year lows in recent weeks as expectations of higher rates from the Fed hit fever-pitch. Bets that benefit if gold prices fall outpaced wagers that gold will rally by a record margin of 17,949 contracts on Dec. 1, according to CFTC data. Tighter monetary policy is likely to make it harder for gold, which doesn't pay interest, to compete with yield-bearing assets like Treasury bonds.

-- Tatyana Shumsky

-- Housing market. Higher short-term interest rates won't wreck housing, and in the near-term might have hardly any impact at all. For one, the rate of mortgages, as with those of other long-term loans, have only an indirect relationship with short-term rates and are influenced more heavily by factors such as inflation expectations and economic growth. The rate on a 30-year fixed-rate mortgage -- which last week was at 3.95% according to Freddie Mac -- almost surely already is pricing in expectations of a Fed move on Wednesday. That said, over the next year, some economists expect mortgage rates to rise about half a percentage point. That would hurt home prices as borrowers would need to buy a cheaper house to keep the same monthly payment.

-- Joe Light

-- Life insurers. Few companies are rooting for a sustained rise in interest rates as loudly as U.S. insurers, and life insurers are leading the cheers. Most insurers earn substantial income from investing premiums, and they typically favor high-quality bonds, whose yields have plummeted in recent years amid the sustained low interest-rate environment. Life insurers depend more heavily on investment income than do car, home and some sorts of business insurers. That is because life insurers can collect premiums for decades before paying out a claim, and rely on that investment income to make a policy profitable. For many older policies on life insurers' books, the companies expected to earn far-higher yields than newly invested cash fetches today. Low rates also raise the cost of running risk-management programs. Such hedging programs are important for those life insurers selling certain types of income-stream guarantees.

-- Leslie Scism

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   COfed : Federal Reserve Board   INi82002 : Life Insurance | i82 : Insurance | ifinal : Financial Services   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | c314 : Pricing | ecat : Economic News | gvbod : Government Bodies | m1421 : Gold Markets | c31 : Marketing/Markets | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e12 : Monetary Policy | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | m14 : Commodity Markets | m142 : Metals Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mpcsmt : Precious Metals Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCGMA | FED | USG | BSC | FCL | NND | RECN | TPX   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument J000000020151217ebch0000r  



 HDThe  Federal Reserve  Decision -- Five Things: What the Decision Says About the Road Ahead   BYBy Ben Leubsdorf      WC519 words   PD17 December 2015   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGA9   LAEnglish   CYCopyright © 2015, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.   
   LPThe Federal Reserve on Wednesday said it would raise short-term interest rates that it has kept pinned near zero for seven years, and it dropped hints about the likely path of rate increases in the coming months and years. Here are five key takeaways from the Fed's big day.

1. SMOOTH SAILING
   TDThe Fed's long-awaited liftoff wasn't exactly a surprise. Chairwoman Janet Yellen and other officials had sent strong signals that the move was imminent, and expectations for a rate increase were bolstered by a run of strong data on the health of the U.S. labor market. As a result, financial markets seemed to take the news in stride.

2. GRADUAL, GRADUAL

The Fed wanted so badly to emphasize that rates aren't shooting up, it put the word "gradual" in its policy statement twice, referring to the likely pace of future moves. The central bank said it "expects that economic conditions will evolve in a manner that will warrant only gradual increases in the federal funds rate," with the caveat that "the actual path of the federal funds rate will depend on the economic outlook as informed by incoming data." Fed officials' median projection sees the benchmark federal-funds rate at 1.375% at the end of 2016, implying four quarter-percentage-point increases next year. But Ms. Yellen said at her Wednesday news conference that people shouldn't expect "mechanical, evenly timed, equally sized interest rate changes."

3. INFLATION IN FOCUS

Now that the first rate increase is out of the way, when will the Fed raise rates a second time? Keep an eye on officials' expectations for inflation, which has undershot the central bank's 2% annual target for 3 1/2 years. The Fed said it is confident inflation will rise to 2% in the coming years. But if that doesn't happen, "we would need to take further action to reconsider the outlook and to put in place appropriate policy," Ms. Yellen said.

4. NO RECESSION IN SIGHT

Ms. Yellen described the Fed's rate increase as a vote of confidence in the economy. "We believe we have seen substantial improvement in labor market conditions and, while things may be uneven across regions of the country and different industrial sectors, we see an economy that is on a path of sustainable improvement," she said. And while there is always the chance of a shock that could push the U.S. into a recession, "I don't see anything in the underlying strength of the economy that would lead me to be concerned about that outcome," Ms. Yellen said.

5. UNITED FRONT

Ms. Yellen secured a unanimous vote for the Fed's first rate increase since 2006, no small achievement after a number of Fed officials had expressed concern about whether it was too soon to begin tightening policy. The Fed saw just two dissents this entire year, the lowest annual total since 2009.

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   COfed : Federal Reserve Board   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | ecat : Economic News | effund : Interbank Rate | gvbod : Government Bodies | m131 : Money Markets | e12 : Monetary Policy | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCFED | USG | NND | TPX | TPT   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument J000000020151217ebch0002p  



 HDOnline Lenders Brace for the Fed --- Businesses of some firms could be tested if the central bank raises interest rates   BYBy Yuliya Chernova      WC675 words   PD16 December 2015   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGC2   LAEnglish   CYCopyright © 2015, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.   
   LPThe online-lending industry boomed in an era of low interest rates. A new test awaits if the Federal Reserve raises short-term rates, as many expect it to do this week.

After holding short-term interest rates near zero for seven years, the Fed is widely expected to move at its two-day policy meeting that ends Wednesday.
   TDAn interest-rate increase is a scenario that many firms in this nascent industry have never confronted.

Unlike banks, online lenders don't lend from deposits that are directly affected by the Fed's core benchmark rates. The raise could be felt, however, in the form of investors' expectations of higher yields on their investments, or if banks increased the rates on credit facilities the lending platforms use to buy the loans before packaging them into smaller slices and reselling them.

"Changes in rate could have an impact on our business in at least three areas: demand for loans, credit performance and supply of capital," said Sam Hodges, co-founder and managing director at Funding Circle Ltd., an online marketplace lender for small-business loans.

While an increase in the Fed's short-term rate will affect some of the mechanics of making loans for banks and nonbank lenders alike, a more serious test would come if rate moves come quickly enough in coming months to spook borrowers and potentially push some into default.

A small increase won't affect Funding Circle, Mr. Hodges said, or cause it to bump up the rates it charges borrowers.

"Given the cushion we've already built into our loan pricing, we don't plan to increase rates if there's a small shift in the base rate," he said.

Should the Fed keep raising rates over a two-year period, however, that will add up and lead to uncertainty for online lenders, said Frank Rotman, partner at startup-investment firm QED Investors.

A change in unemployment or consumer behavior that might come from a sustained increase in rates would likely test some borrowers' ability to pay. That also could expose algorithms under which loans have been issued over the past several years, said Mr. Rotman, who is a former executive at Capital One Financial Corp.

Platforms will have to await signals from capital providers, such as hedge funds, banks, insurers and others who buy the loans. "When those institutions decide to change rates, that's when we react," said Yee Lee, chief executive of consumer lending startup Vouch Financial Inc.

Firms that keep the loans on their books may be insulated because some credit facilities with banks and hedge funds arebased on prime rates and others on longer-term rates, which the Fed's decision will affect differently.

Some lenders appear not to be worried about interest-rate changes.

"We don't think we are rate-sensitive at all," said Renaud Laplanche, chief executive of LendingClub Corp., which originates loans largely to help consumers pay off credit-card debt, at a Goldman Sachs event last week, according to a transcript provided by Thomson Reuters.

As short-term interest rates increase, credit-card rates go up. LendingClub charges borrowers more and passes the higher rates to investors, who will seek more yield.

The impact of rate increases will also depend on factors such as whether an online-lending company underwrites loans and holds them on their books, as do companies such as OnDeck Capital Inc., or handles the loans as "marketplaces" in which the platform originates loans and passes them along to other investors, as in the case of LendingClub and Funding Circle.

Those that hold the loans will have different agreements with their capital sources, said Julianna Balicka, an analyst at investment bank Keefe, Bruyette & Woods.

"No one really knows" what lenders would do or how the increase in rates will affect the market, Ms. Balicka said.

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   COfed : Federal Reserve Board   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | e12 : Monetary Policy | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters   REeurz : Europe | usa : United States | namz : North America   IPCABO | AEQI | SGN | FED | USG | FCL | NND   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument J000000020151216ebcg00010  



 HDEmerging Markets Divided on Fed   BYBy Carolyn Cui      WC916 words   PD16 December 2015   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGC1   LAEnglish   CYCopyright © 2015, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.   
   LPIt used to be that investors could count on rising rates in emerging markets when the Federal Reserve began tightening U.S. policy. But the commodity bust and the go-slow global economy have changed that.

If the central bank raises the federal-funds rate on Wednesday as expected for the first time since 2006, many central banks in emerging markets won't be going along for the ride. Instead, policy makers from Mexico to Turkey will embark on a journey that many analysts and traders expect to last a year or more, of constantly choosing between two unhappy extremes: keeping rates low and accepting the possibility that would trigger another round of damaging capital outflows, or choosing to keep pace with the Fed and possibly sending struggling domestic economies into recession.
   TDInvestors face vexing choices, too: Emerging-market asset prices have been hit hard over the past year by the plunge in the energy sector and the slowdown in trade driven in part by China's economic retrenchment. Oil prices already have fallen more than many analysts expected, and few fund managers are eager to dive into stock, bond and commodity markets around the globe in the middle of a bout of unusual year-end volatility.

For investors, the policy divergence suggests that "the notion you can just buy EM assets as a group is being challenged," said Jorge Mariscal, chief investment officer of emerging markets at UBS Wealth Management, which oversees $1.9 trillion in invested assets. "Investors have to pick their spots."

Buying into emerging markets when U.S. growth was roaring used to be a no-brainer, investors said. In 2004, when the Fed initiated its most recent cycle of rate increases, emerging economies grew at a brisk annual rate of 7.3%, according to the International Monetary Fund. As the U.S. economic cycle matured, investors could look forward to harvesting gains from overseas markets that often were earlier in their own growth trajectories.

But the global economy now appears more synchronized than before, not to mention less vigorous, attributable in part to massive debt issuance in response to the 2008 financial crisis.

This year, emerging countries are expected to grow by 4%, which would be the weakest pace since 2009. Inflation also is more subdued, running at 4.5% this year for emerging markets, lower than the 5.8% posted in 2004, according to J.P. Morgan Chase & Co.

J.P. Morgan analysts expect the average interest rate in emerging markets to remain unchanged at about 5.8% by the end of next year. Among those that likely will follow the Fed's lead for at least one rate increase according to the analysts are Mexico, Israel, Hong Kong and Peru, whose economies or currencies are linked more closely to the U.S.

Brazil, Colombia and Turkey also are expected to raise rates, as central banks seek to rein in inflation. But in Russia, Malaysia and Poland, central banks are likely to continue to ease to spur growth, according to J.P. Morgan.

The Fed is expected to announce a rate increase when it concludes its policy meeting on Wednesday, and the market increasingly anticipates some emerging countries to react with higher rates, too. The short-term rate in Mexico, for instance, is expected to rise to 4.3% in 12 months, up from 3.3% at present, as indicated by the forward market.

Investors also are pricing in increases in Brazil of as much as 2.37 percentage points by September 2016, 0.6 percentage point in Chile over the next 12 months and 1.14 percentage points over the next 12 months in South Africa.

But there is uncertainty over what actually will happen in many of these countries, because of fragile domestic economic conditions and potentially large capital flows in response to any rate move.

Take Mexico: Olga Yangol, a senior emerging-markets debt-product specialist at HSBC Global Asset Management, expects the Mexican central bank, or Banxico, to follow in the Fed's footsteps, saying Mexico is so "integrated with the U.S." As a result, HSBC holds fewer Mexican bonds than the benchmark to its emerging-markets debt portfolios suggests, expecting to buy bonds at higher yields after Banxico raises rates.

But analysts at Barclays PLC expect Banxico to decouple from the Fed and keep rates on hold until June 2016, when greater clarity on the domestic economy should appear. The recent stabilization in the Mexican currency, the peso, coupled with the low inflation and still-sluggish growth in the country, suggests that policy makers keep rates unchanged, analysts said in a recent note.

"We noticed a change of sentiment since its September meeting," in which Banxico indicated its monetary policy could remain on hold for longer, said Marco Oviedo, chief Mexico economist at Barclays. The bank recommends clients hold 10-year peso-denominated bonds to lock in the current yields.

Some economists say the trajectory of emerging-market rates also depends on the pace of U.S. tightening. Marios Maratheftis, chief economist at Standard Chartered Bank, said he thinks the cycle in the U.S. will be brief and that the Fed will actually turn around to cut rates again toward the end of 2016.

Bernd Berg, an emerging-market strategist at Societe Generale, said a rate increase by Banxico would be "a major monetary policy mistake."



License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   COfed : Federal Reserve Board   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services   NSecat : Economic News | effund : Interbank Rate | gvbod : Government Bodies | m131 : Money Markets | nimage : Images | e12 : Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | mex : Mexico | braz : Brazil | chil : Chile | col : Colombia | eurz : Europe | hkong : Hong Kong | israel : Israel | peru : Peru | pol : Poland | russ : Russia | safr : South Africa | turk : Turkey | africaz : Africa | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | balkz : Balkan States | bric : BRICS Countries | china : China | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | eecz : European Union Countries | eeurz : Central/Eastern Europe | lamz : Latin America | meastz : Middle East | medz : Mediterranean | namz : North America | samz : South America | souafrz : Southern Africa | ussrz : CIS Countries | wasiaz : Western Asia   IPCPIC | FED | IGV | USG | NND | TPX | TFR | TPT   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument J000000020151216ebcg00030  


 HDThe  Federal Reserve  Decision: Emerging Markets Face Currency Stress --- Rising rates promise to pinch economies already struggling with global slowdown   BYBy Ian Talley      WC1,210 words   PD17 December 2015   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGA9   LAEnglish   CYCopyright © 2015, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.   
   LPThe Federal Reserve's first rate increase in almost a decade is stirring fears of another wave of turmoil in emerging markets that have already been hit by financial squalls, rising debt levels and anemic demand.

Investors have already withdrawn a net $500 billion from emerging markets in 2015, the first annual outflow in decades. The question now is whether the Fed's plans to raise rates over the coming months could still provoke a stampede.
   TDA Fed-induced strengthening of the U.S. dollar could spell deeper pain for countries such as Turkey, Russia and Brazil, where firms have borrowed heavily in the U.S. currency. Weaker local currencies make paying dollar debt much tougher.

"The biggest concern for emerging markets is related to currency," said Megan Greene, chief economist for John Hancock Asset Management. "As every other central bank continues to ease and the Fed is hiking gradually, the dollar will continue to strengthen."

Key is the central bank's signaling about the trajectory of coming rate increases. On Wednesday, the Fed assured that it will move in "prudent" and "gradual" steps, with some officials signaling a more measured rise in rates than previously indicated.

That prompted a "relief rally" in some emerging market currencies, said Sacha Tihanyi, a senior strategist at TD Securities, as the Fed allayed investor fears the central bank would move rates up quickly.

But if the Fed signals a more aggressive rate path than has been currently suggested by officials, it could unnerve markets. And even if the central bank keeps its rate guidance steady, the steady upward pressure on borrowing costs and the dollar could still reveal building excesses in markets. The dollar strengthened marginally against a basket of currencies after the Fed's announcement, according to the WSJ Dollar Index.

"You could have a perfect storm in some of these emerging markets if there's a sudden stop in capital flows," said Ayhan Kose, head of the World Bank's economic forecasting unit. "They should hope for the best, but prepare for the worst," he said.

"There remains a clear risk that the path for U.S. rates could be steeper than anticipated and that the Fed may shy away from predictability in its policy moves," said Sonja Gibbs, director of capital markets at the Institute of International Finance, referring to those countries.

Many emerging-market currencies are already under pressure as investors worry about the health of those economies. The World Bank warned last week of "the beginning of an era of weak growth for emerging markets," pointing to the strengthening dollar, souring growth prospects, soft commodity prices and declining productivity.

The International Monetary Fund has been waving the red flag for months. The IMF estimates emerging markets have borrowed trillions of dollars more than commodity prices and global demand warrant. While much of that debt was borrowed by companies, problems in the corporate sector could easily bleed into the financial markets and weigh on public finances. That is one reason why the fund repeatedly urged the Fed to delay a rate rise into 2016.

The spillover effects around the world aren't trivial: Developing nations now account for nearly 40% of global output.

For evidence, look no further than China, the world's second-largest economy. The country's economic slowdown is cited as one of the prime drivers of plummeting commodity prices. Falling prices and shrinking demand from China are forcing governments and economists to downgrade their growth forecasts for a host of countries across the globe. It also has been a major borrower.

"My nightmare scenario is that they have cascading defaults and the government steps in and bails everybody out," said Ms. Greene.

Even in countries where borrowing doesn't appear to be a problem, emerging-market debt could still balloon in a flash. Borrowing costs could shoot up if investors get spooked and rush to the exits.

Carmen Reinhart, a Harvard University economist, said debt burdens are also likely being underestimated by a large margin. "If so, the magnitude of the ongoing reversal in capital flows that emerging economies are experiencing may be larger than is generally believed -- potentially large enough to trigger a crisis," she said.

---

The World Watches Closely

The Federal Reserve's move to boost its benchmark interest rate promises to add further volatility to currency markets and to send jitters through many developing countries. A look at the impact in key regions and countries:

EUROZONE

The Fed's rate rise cements its divergence with the European Central Bank, which cut its deposit rate further into negative territory earlier this month and extended a bond purchase program. Policy makers say they are determined to maintain their easy-money stance, suggesting further easing is an option should financial conditions in Europe tighten following the Fed's move.

---

U.K.

Among major central banks, the Bank of England may look the most closely at how markets digest higher policy rates, as it looks to be the next in line to follow the Fed. The U.K. has been one of the fastest-growing advanced economies in 2015. But, as with the U.S., low inflation remains a challenge. Economists think the BOE will begin gently raising rates sometime next year, perhaps as soon as May.

---

CHINA

There are mounting worries that the Fed's action will weigh on the country's slowing economy, adding to downward momentum. Chinese officials worry about the impact on global trade of a stronger dollar, and of potential unrest in emerging markets. "Would an increase by the Fed put additional pressure on China? The answer is definitely yes," said Yu Yongding, an economist at the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, a state-affiliated think tank. "It may cause more capital outflows and increase renminbi devaluation pressure."

---

INDIA

India is now in a better position to cope with a Fed rise than it was just a couple of years ago. Prices have cooled: Inflation, which was above 10% in 2013, has halved. The current account has swung from a sizable deficit to a healthy surplus. Its budget deficit is lower, and foreign-currency reserves are close to record levels. "There will be volatility, but I think we have to bear it," Reserve Bank of India Gov. Raghuram Rajan told an audience in Frankfurt last month. "I worry more about the consequences of staying in the ultra-accommodative . . . world."

---

JAPAN

The Bank of Japan is nervously watching whether the Fed liftoff will wash through international markets and, through that channel, Japan's moribund economy. BOJ Gov. Haruhiko Kuroda's long-standing stance is that a rate increase by the Fed is positive if it reflects the U.S. economy's strength. "If the Fed decides to start to raise interest rates, that will probably be due to solid employment and income conditions, or because there is a strong economic recovery driven mainly by household spending," Mr. Kuroda said in November. "If that proves to be the case, it will be a positive development for both the global and Japanese economies."

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   COeurcb : European Central Bank | fed : Federal Reserve Board   NSe12 : Monetary Policy | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | e1202 : Interest Rates | e52 : Euro Zone/Currency | ecat : Economic News | gvbod : Government Bodies | m131 : Money Markets | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter   REbraz : Brazil | china : China | eurz : Europe | india : India | jap : Japan | russ : Russia | turk : Turkey | usa : United States | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | balkz : Balkan States | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | eeurz : Central/Eastern Europe | indsubz : Indian Subcontinent | lamz : Latin America | meastz : Middle East | medz : Mediterranean | namz : North America | samz : South America | sasiaz : Southern Asia | ussrz : CIS Countries | wasiaz : Western Asia   IPCFED | IGV | JABJ | JAGV | UKBK | UKGV | USG | NND | TPT   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument J000000020151217ebch0002l  



 HDThe  Federal Reserve  Meeting: In Process of Raising Rates, Fed Risks New Distortions   BYBy Katy Burne      WC1,147 words   PD16 December 2015   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGA7   LAEnglish   CYCopyright © 2015, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.   
   LPWhen traders at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York's Manhattan headquarters get the order to raise interest rates for the first time in nearly a decade, they will be urged on by a plaque down the hall that reads: "Execute policy like a champion today."

Easier said than done. The central bank spent years pumping more than $2.5 trillion into the financial system in hopes of stimulating the economy. Now it risks creating a whole new set of distortions as it tries to pull the cash back out.
   TDFed officials are expected to vote to raise benchmark short-term interest rates from near zero at the conclusion of their two-day policy meeting Wednesday.

It won't be like throwing a switch. Instead, the New York Fed's traders will be swapping securities and cash with big financial institutions, trying to control supply and demand for money in markets already under pressure from new regulations on banks and money-market funds.

A great deal is at stake. Fed tightening traditionally sends up rates on everything from mortgages and car loans to the cost of financing the U.S. deficit. Flubbing the maneuvers could raise questions about the Fed's credibility.

"There is discussion about how, with the Fed putting all the liquidity in, there are tools large enough to get the fed funds rate up," said Scott Skyrm, head of fixed-income financing, futures and rates at Wedbush Securities Inc., a broker-dealer.

The Fed used to set its benchmark rate -- the federal funds rate, charged on overnight loans between banks -- by buying or selling U.S. Treasurys, which added or drained the funds banks had on reserve at the Fed, and small changes were enough to move rates.

The scale of the current effort has forced it to devise new tools.

New York Fed President William Dudley told The Wall Street Journal in late September he is "highly confident" the tools can work.

Of particular concern to some people inside and outside the Fed is something called the reverse repo facility. With reverse repos -- shorthand for reverse repurchase agreements -- the Fed will borrow money overnight from institutions like money-market funds while letting them hold Treasurys as collateral until it pays them back and starts another round of trades the next day.

The Fed has trillions of dollars of Treasurys on its balance sheet that it can offer as collateral, making the reverse repos a potentially useful tool for draining the excess cash still swirling around the financial system, left over from the bond-buying programs the Fed used to fight the 2008 crisis.

The concern is that the program risks making the central bank too big an influence in the money markets, where companies and individuals park cash that they need to be able to access quickly. One risk is that money-market funds could create liquidity problems by choosing to invest their cash with the Fed rather than lend it to banks in times of stress.

"It could change the structure of the short-term money markets in ways that most people find hard to predict," former Philadelphia Fed President Charles Plosser said in an interview.

The $2.7 trillion U.S. money-market-fund industry is already in the process of adjusting to new rules that won't apply to funds that invest solely in debt issued by the federal government and its agencies. Analysts said funds holding as much as $1 trillion in assets could convert to investing only in government securities. That is giving them an added incentive to invest in the Fed's reverse repo program and pick up the Treasurys as collateral.

Separately, large banks including J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. and State Street Corp. have grown reluctant to hold excess cash deposits, sending billions of dollars in search of a safe new home, including Treasurys available through the reverse repos. Meanwhile, constraints on government borrowing have limited the supply of Treasury bills available to meet all the demand.

"The Fed is squeamish about the reverse repo program partly because it involves increasing its presence in money markets, and partly because it's effectively providing a safe asset in size in a market starved of one," said Joseph Abate, money-markets analyst at Barclays PLC.

Because of such concerns, Fed officials want to phase out the repo facility soon after interest-rate liftoff, according to minutes of their recent policy meetings.

Publicly, Fed officials have been ambiguous about how aggressively they will use the reverse repos. In March, Fed officials said they could raise or remove the repo program's daily limit, currently set at $300 billion.

The initial rate hike is only expected to be quarter percentage point, and the central bank has other tools to influence rates.

Chief among them is a plan to pay a higher interest on the reserves that banks park in their accounts at the Fed. Some financial institutions like mortgage giant Fannie Mae and the federal home-loan banks are excluded from earning interest on their deposits at the Fed, so the reverse repos will be used to soak up their excess funds.

Brian Sack, chief global economist at hedge fund firm D.E. Shaw Group and a former markets chief at the New York Fed, said he suspects the Fed will have to keep its reverse repo facility in place for years to have adequate control over rates.

The actual mechanics of the reverse repos are somewhat clunky. Traders at the New York Fed will press a series of buttons in a system called FedTrade that links it with Wall Street banks. Banks and others logging into FedTrade will hear a sequence of three musical notes -- F-E-D -- and see a pop-up window that signals the Fed is about to enter the market.

The bidding is open to more than 150 banks, money-market funds and government-sponsored enterprises including Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, but they can gain access only by using a special USB stick or token. Some traders bidding on behalf of more than one fund have complained about having to remove the token and insert a new one for each fund.

It used to be worse. In the 1970s, when Paul Volcker was president of the New York Fed, officials shut the doors to the trading room when they were entering the market and made visitors freeze on the spot until the results were announced, said Bruce English, a retired senior vice president at Aubrey G. Lanston & Co., a former primary dealer.

To this day, phones at the Fed provide direct lines to primary-dealer desks. "When that line blinked, all action stopped," Mr. English said.



License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   COfrbny : Federal Reserve Bank of New York | fed : Federal Reserve Board   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | effund : Interbank Rate | gvbod : Government Bodies | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m131 : Money Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | nfiac : Fixed Income Asset Class News | nimage : Images | e12 : Monetary Policy | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | nyc : New York City | use : Northeast U.S. | usny : New York State | namz : North America   IPCAFXI | PIC | FED | USG | FCL | NND | TPX | TPT   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument J000000020151216ebcg0002w  


 HDFed Nudges Rates Higher   BYBy Jon Hilsenrath and Ben Leubsdorf      WC1,505 words   PD17 December 2015   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGA1   LAEnglish   CYCopyright © 2015, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.   
   LPThe Federal Reserve said it would end a seven-year experiment with near-zero interest rates by raising its benchmark rate and emphasizing a plan to lift it gradually over the next three years.

The move marks a test of the economy's capacity to stand on its own with less central-bank support to spur continued spending and investment by households and businesses.
   TD"The Fed's decision today reflects our confidence in the U.S. economy," Fed Chairwoman Janet Yellen said Wednesday in a press conference after a two-day policy meeting. "We believe we have seen substantial improvement in labor market conditions and while things may be uneven across regions of the country, and different industrial sectors, we see an economy that is on a path of sustainable improvement."

Investors took the upbeat message to heart. The Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 224.18 points, or 1.28%, to 17749.09. The advance continued in Asia early Thursday, with stock markets in Japan, Hong Kong, Australia and South Korea moving higher.

The Fed's move promises to ripple across the globe. The anticipation of higher rates and stronger growth in the U.S. has driven investors to push up the value of the U.S. dollar. That in turn has hit commodities prices and companies in emerging markets that borrowed heavily in dollars during the low-rate period. A stronger currency is making it harder to pay off those debts.

The Fed leader won a unanimous vote, the capstone on a tumultuous year marked by wavering and internal disagreement about when to move.

Fed officials are proceeding with great caution. They said they would raise the benchmark federal-funds rate -- an overnight interbank lending rate -- from near zero to between 0.25% and 0.5%, and would adjust their strategy as they see how the economy performs.

"We have very low rates and we have made a very small move," Ms. Yellen said to underscore her own caution.

New projections show officials expect the fed-funds rate to creep up to 1.375% by the end of 2016, according to the median projection of 17 officials, to 2.375% by the end of 2017 and 3.25% in three years. That implies four quarter-percentage-point interest rate increases next year, four the next and three or four the following. It depends on whether the Fed's forecasts for the economy -- which have frequently been wrong in this expansion -- hold up.

The pace of rate increases projected by officials is somewhat slower than what they saw in September and much slower compared with earlier cycles of Fed rate increases. In the 2004-06 period, for example, the Fed raised rates 17 times in succession, a staccato approach Fed officials don't intend to repeat.

"The committee expects that economic conditions will evolve in a manner that will warrant only gradual increases in the federal funds rate," the central bank said in its policy statement.

When the Fed moves next will depend on how inflation evolves. The Fed's preferred measure of inflation has run below its 2% objective for 3 1/2 years, pushed down of late by tumbling oil prices, which fell Wednesday to their lowest level since February 2009.

The central bank focused on the inflation outlook in its policy statement, and Ms. Yellen suggested it might alter its course if its projection of a gradual rise in inflation doesn't materialize as expected. Fed officials don't want inflation to run below their 2% goal for long periods because they see that as a sign that the broader economy isn't living up to its potential.

"We do need to monitor inflation very carefully," Ms. Yellen said. If it doesn't pick up, "we would need to take further action to reconsider the outlook and to put in place appropriate policy."

For now, officials said they were "reasonably confident" inflation would rise, because the domestic economy is improving.

Any number of factors might throw the Fed off its plans. Persistently low inflation, a shock to the financial system or slowing growth from abroad could force the Fed to delay further rate increases or even reverse course.

"The real economy is still suffering," said William Spriggs, chief economist at the AFL-CIO and an economics professor at Howard University in Washington, D.C. He said the Fed made a mistake by raising rates and committing to raise them further, which he said will slow down the economy and hurt workers as households continue to recover from the recession and sluggish recovery.

On the other hand, an unexpected acceleration in economic growth or inflation, or a new financial boom, could lead officials to lift borrowing costs more quickly than they now expect.

"Frankly, that would be good news" because it would mean the economy was performing better than expected, said Anil Kashyap, an economics professor at the University of Chicago Booth School of Business.

For now, John Bergstrom, chief executive of Bergstrom Automotive, a Neenah, Wis., company with 30 dealerships in the state, said he didn't expect a quarter-percentage-point rate increase to do much of anything to his business.

A rate increase of that size, he estimated, would increase the average cost of a car by $4 a month. That's offset by the boost households have received from lower gasoline prices, he said, which he estimates saves them $200 a month.

During the financial crisis, he closed 12 dealerships, he said. Now sales are booming. They have reached $1 billion this year, compared with $850 million before the 2007-09 recession. "A little bit of an interest-rate hike is not going to be a big problem," he said. "We are ready to get back to business as usual."

While auto sales have boomed, manufacturers are struggling with the effects of a strong dollar and weak global economy, which is hurting their ability to sell goods overseas. Tumbling oil prices have also hit the energy sector.

Taken altogether, Fed officials see a domestic economy that has made enough progress to warrant a slow retreat from easy money. The jobless rate has fallen to 5% in November from 10% in 2009. Officials believe inflation will rise in 2016 as slack in the job market diminishes and oil prices stabilize.

Officials predicted the economy would expand at an annual pace between 2.4% in 2016 and 2% in 2018, which would take the expansion to a decade in length. They saw their preferred measure of inflation rising from 0.4% in 2015 to 1.6% in 2016 and then to 2% by 2018. The jobless rate is seen stabilizing at 4.7% during the next three years. These projections were largely in line with earlier estimates.

Whether other interest rates -- such as on savings accounts, mortgages, car loans and corporate loans -- rise as well depends on how investors, businesses and households respond.

U.S. lenders -- including J.P. Morgan Chase & Co., Wells Fargo & Co., Bank of America Corp. -- said Wednesday that they would raise their so-called prime rate, a key reference rate for a variety of loans including credit-card debt, to 3.5% from 3.25%.

The market doesn't always follow the Fed's lead. Between 2004 and 2006, when the Fed raised its benchmark short-term rate 4.25 percentage points, yields on 10-year U.S. Treasury notes and corporate bonds and mortgage rates barely budged because of strong global appetite for U.S. securities.

Michael Lussier, chief executive of Webster First Federal Credit Union in Worcester, Mass., said banks and credit unions now could be slow to adjust rates on certificates of deposits and other savings accounts, potentially bad news for retirees looking for higher returns on their fixed-income investments.

"You are not going to see an instant change in CDs on Thursday, that's a guarantee," he said in an interview ahead of the Fed's release. A 12-month CD at First Federal yields 0.4%.

The central bank has been telegraphing the rate increase for months. By moving now, the Fed could put new pressure on emerging markets, particularly corporate borrowers in these countries that took out U.S. dollar loans which have gotten more expensive as the dollar rises in value.

The junk bond market is already reeling. Yields on low-rate junk bonds have jumped from 6.61% at the beginning of the year to 8.79%. A retreat from junk bond funds prompted Third Avenue Management LLC last week to suspend withdrawals, which added to investor anxiety about the sector.

"In waiting as long as it has to begin rate normalization; the central bank may have allowed this process to reach a point where domestic growth appears to have potentially crested as we head into the hiking cycle," said Rick Rieder, a portfolio manager at BlackRock Inc.

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   COfed : Federal Reserve Board   NSe1103 : Inflation/Prices | e1202 : Interest Rates | m131 : Money Markets | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | ecat : Economic News | effund : Interbank Rate | gvbod : Government Bodies | npag : Page-One Stories | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Monetary Policy | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCFED | USG | NND | TPX | PGO | TPT   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument J000000020151217ebch0002o  



 HDNews Highlights: Top Economic Stories of the Day   WC1,629 words   PD17 December 2015   ET02:00   SNDow Jones Institutional News   SCDJDN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright © 2015, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.   
   LP
 
New Zealand's Economy Gains Speed for Now -- Update 

New Zealand's economy expanded more than expected in the third quarter, powered by robust growth in services and manufacturing, but some economists warned that the momentum in the economy still may not be strong enough to stave off more interest rate cuts next year. (published 0045 GMT) 
   TD
 
 
HKMA Raises Base Rate to 0.75% After US Fed Raises Rate 

The Hong Kong Monetary Authority raised its base rate by 25 basis points to 0.75% from 0.50% effective Thursday, matching the interest-rate rise by the U.S. Federal Reserve. (published 0015 GMT) 


 
 
Japan Exports Fall on Weak Chinese Demand 

Japanese exports fell for a second consecutive month in November on a further retreat in Chinese demand, in a worrisome sign for the economy, according to government data released Thursday. (published 0005 GMT) 


 
 
Singapore Nov Non-Oil Exports Unexpectedly Fall As Drugs Drag 

Singapore's key non-oil exports unexpectedly fell in November due to a sharp contraction in the highly volatile pharmaceuticals shipments. (published 0036 GMT) 


 
 
Investors Turn Focus to Global Economy After Fed Rate Move 

The Federal Reserveinterest-rate increase leaves unaddressed two riddles vexing investors: How healthy is the global economy, and how will markets react as U.S. monetary policy diverges from that of other large economies? (published 0015 GMT) 


 
 
Borrowers to Face Higher Lending Rates -- Update 

Big U.S. lenders said they would raise rates on some loans after the Federal Reserve lifted its benchmark interest rate by a quarter percentage point. (published 0026 GMT) 


 
 
U.S. Businesses Worry About Stronger Dollar -- update 

American businesses fretted that the first interest rate increase in seven years came at a time when a strong U.S. dollaralready is sapping demand for exports and low energy and commodity prices are weighing on growth in the industrial economy. (published 0023 GMT) 


 
 
Spending Deal's Adjustments to Health Law Seen as Step Toward Permanent Change 

and that would have much bigger ramifications. (published 2356 GMT Wednesday) 


 
 
Fed Bolsters Tool Kit for Lifting Rates -- 2nd Update 

The Federal Reserve said on Wednesday it is boosting the size of a program it will use to set a floor under short-term interest rates as part of its effort to increase the cost of borrowing in the U.S. economy. (published 2226 GMT Wednesday) 


 
 
Ukraine, EU Talks Open Way to Visa-Free Deal 

Ukrainian President Petro Poroshenko and top European Union officials reached a tentative deal on Wednesday on Kiev's bid to win visa-free access to the bloc, opening the way for Brussels to back the step as early as Friday, EU officials said. (published 0054 GMT) 


 
 
Yellen: Fed to Move Rates Higher in Gradual, Prudent Manner 

Federal Reserve Chairwoman Janet Yellen emphasized Wednesday she expected the central bank would raise short-term interest rates gradually as the effects of the financial crisis abate. (published 2031 GMT Wednesday) 


 
 
Congress Set to Approve Overhaul of IMF's Governance -- Update 

U. S. lawmakers look set to ratify a five-year-old international deal to overhaul the governance of the International Monetary Fund that gives such emerging markets as China greater power at the emergency lender. (published 2151 GMT Wednesday) 


 
 
Argentina Announces Lifting of Currency Controls 

Argentina on Wednesday announced the immediate end of cumbersome currency controls, a policy decision so pivotal that it is likely to set the initial tone for new President Mauricio Macri's term in office. (published 2147 GMT Wednesday) 


 
 
======= DOW JONES NEWSWIRES ANALYSIS AND COMMENTARIES ======= 
 
Where the Fed Goes Next on Interest Rates -- Heard on the Street 

We have liftoff. But what will it take for the Federal Reserve to reach the second stage of rate increases? For starters, forget about talk of the Fed being "one and done." Beyond that, things get murkier. (published 2056 GMT Wednesday) 



16 Dec 2015 22:00 ET 
News Highlights: Top Economic Stories of the Day


 
New Zealand's Economy Gains Speed for Now -- Update 

New Zealand's economy expanded more than expected in the third quarter, powered by robust growth in services and manufacturing, but some economists warned that the momentum in the economy still may not be strong enough to stave off more interest rate cuts next year. (published 0045 GMT) 


 
 
HKMA Raises Base Rate to 0.75% After US Fed Raises Rate 

The Hong Kong Monetary Authority raised its base rate by 25 basis points to 0.75% from 0.50% effective Thursday, matching the interest-rate rise by the U.S. Federal Reserve. (published 0015 GMT) 


 
 
Japan Exports Fall on Weak Chinese Demand 

Japanese exports fell for a second consecutive month in November on a further retreat in Chinese demand, in a worrisome sign for the economy, according to government data released Thursday. (published 0005 GMT) 


 
 
Singapore Nov Non-Oil Exports Unexpectedly Fall As Drugs Drag 

Singapore's key non-oil exports unexpectedly fell in November due to a sharp contraction in the highly volatile pharmaceuticals shipments. (published 0036 GMT) 


 
 
Investors Turn Focus to Global Economy After Fed Rate Move 

The Federal Reserveinterest-rate increase leaves unaddressed two riddles vexing investors: How healthy is the global economy, and how will markets react as U.S. monetary policy diverges from that of other large economies? (published 0015 GMT) 


 
 
Borrowers to Face Higher Lending Rates -- Update 

Big U.S. lenders said they would raise rates on some loans after the Federal Reserve lifted its benchmark interest rate by a quarter percentage point. (published 0026 GMT) 


 
 
U.S. Businesses Worry About Stronger Dollar -- update 

American businesses fretted that the first interest rate increase in seven years came at a time when a strong U.S. dollaralready is sapping demand for exports and low energy and commodity prices are weighing on growth in the industrial economy. (published 0023 GMT) 


 
 
Ukraine, EU Talks Open Way to Visa-Free Deal 

Ukrainian President Petro Poroshenko and top European Union officials reached a tentative deal on Wednesday on Kiev's bid to win visa-free access to the bloc, opening the way for Brussels to back the step as early as Friday, EU officials said. (published 0054 GMT) 


 
 
Gloom on Brazil Finances Deepens 

Brazil's finances took another turn for the worse Wednesday, as a second sovereign-rating downgrade sent the nation's bonds and currency slumping anew. (published 0103 GMT) 



17 Dec 2015 01:00 ET 
News Highlights: Top Economic Stories of the Day


 
Fed Raises Rates After Seven Years Near Zero - Update 

The Federal Reserve said it would end a seven-year experiment with near-zero interest rates by raising its benchmark rate and emphasizing a plan to lift it gradually over the next three years. (published 0344 GMT) 


 
 
House Poised to Approve $600 Billion in Tax Cuts--Update 

The House is poised to pass more than $600 billion in tax cuts on Thursday, delivering benefits to manufacturers, medical device makers, labor unions, multinational banks and low-income families, among others. (published 0434 GMT) 


 
 
Fed Rate-Increase to Cool Hong Kong Property Prices 

Homeowners in this major Asian financial center are bracing for the impact of an increase in U.S. interest-rates that could send a chill through the world's most expensive housing market. (published 0430 GMT) 

Philippine Central Bank: Fed Rate Hike Ends 'Liftoff Uncertainty' 

The U.S. Federal Reserve's decision to raise short-term interest rates could still weaken regional currencies even if some uncertainty has been lifted, the governor of the Philippine central bank said Thursday. (published 0311 GMT) 


 
 
New Zealand's Economy Gains Speed for Now -- Update 

New Zealand's economy expanded more than expected in the third quarter, powered by robust growth in services and manufacturing, but some economists warned that the momentum in the economy still may not be strong enough to stave off more interest rate cuts next year. (published 0045 GMT) 


 
 
HKMA Raises Base Rate to 0.75% After US Fed Raises Rate 

The Hong Kong Monetary Authority raised its base rate by 25 basis points to 0.75% from 0.50% effective Thursday, matching the interest-rate rise by the U.S. Federal Reserve. (published 0015 GMT) 


 
 
Singapore Nov Non-Oil Exports Unexpectedly Fall As Drugs Drag 

Singapore's key non-oil exports unexpectedly fell in November due to a sharp contraction in the highly volatile pharmaceuticals shipments. (published 0036 GMT) 


 
 
Borrowers to Face Higher Lending Rates -- Update 

Big U.S. lenders said they would raise rates on some loans after the Federal Reserve lifted its benchmark interest rate by a quarter percentage point. (published 0026 GMT) 


 
 
U.S. Businesses Worry About Stronger Dollar -- update 

American businesses fretted that the first interest rate increase in seven years came at a time when a strong U.S. dollaralready is sapping demand for exports and low energy and commodity prices are weighing on growth in the industrial economy. (published 0023 GMT) 


 
 
Ukraine, EU Talks Open Way to Visa-Free Deal 

Ukrainian President Petro Poroshenko and top European Union officials reached a tentative deal on Wednesday on Kiev's bid to win visa-free access to the bloc, opening the way for Brussels to back the step as early as Friday, EU officials said. (published 0054 GMT) 


 
 
Gloom on Brazil Finances Deepens 

Brazil's finances took another turn for the worse Wednesday, as a second sovereign-rating downgrade sent the nation's bonds and currency slumping anew. (published 0103 GMT) 


 
 
======= DOW JONES NEWSWIRES ANALYSIS AND COMMENTARIES ======= 
 
Fed Finds Biggest Fans in Japan -- Heard on the Street 

Japanese markets have reacted exuberantly to the Federal Reserve rate increase. A positive mood should linger even after initial celebrations are done. (published 0448 GMT) 



(END) Dow Jones Newswires

December 17, 2015 01:00 ET (06:00 GMT)
   COhkmoat : Hong Kong Monetary Authority | fed : Federal Reserve Board   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | ncdig : Corporate Digests | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | nfiac : Fixed Income Asset Class News | nhhour : Headlines of the Hour | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Monetary Policy | ncat : Content Types | ndj : Dow Jones Top Stories | nfact : Factiva Filters | ntop : Top Wire News | redit : Selection of Top Stories/Trends/Analysis   REusa : United States | brus : Brussels | kiev : Kiev | nz : New Zealand | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | belg : Belgium | benluxz : Benelux Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | eecz : European Union Countries | eeurz : Central/Eastern Europe | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | ukrn : Ukraine | ussrz : CIS Countries | weurz : Western Europe   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument DJDN000020151217ebch0004c  

 Robert Brusca: Fed Rate Hike Opening Pandora's Box
The Wall Street Journal's Your Money Matters, 17 December 2015, 1309 words, (English)
Summary: Where does the Federal Reserve go from here on interest rates? Hard to predict, says Robert Brusca at Fact and Opinion Economics, because Fed chairwoman Janet Yellen has been "as slippery as a wet bar of soap."
Document MMSAKA0020151218ebch00002

 Morning MoneyBeat Asia: U.S. Stocks Rally as Fed Raises Rates
WSJ Blogs, 01:43, 17 December 2015, 1003 words, (English)
Market Snap: At the New York close: S&P 500 up 1.45% at 2073.07. DJIA up 1.3% at 17749.09. Nasdaq Comp up 0.15% at 5071.13. Treasury yields rise; 10-year up 0.021 percentage points to 2.291%. Nymex crude oil down 4.90% at $35.52. Gold ...
Document WCWSJB0020151217ebch0002t



 HDAP PHOTOS: Changes since the Fed last raised rates in 2006   BYBy PAUL WISEMAN and PAN PYLAS      CRAssociated Press   WC1,540 words   PD16 December 2015   ET23:24   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2015.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPWASHINGTON (AP) — The housing market looked like a casino. BlackBerrys were ascendant. Twitter was 3 months old. Jesse Jackson was protesting high gas prices. Saddam Hussein was on trial. "American Idol" dominated American network TV. And cheeky Lightning McQueen from the hit film "Cars" first became a toy phenomenon.

The world was a rather different place the last time the Federal Reserve raised interest rates. Attached are some photos taken by photographers from the Associated Press of what was going on in 2006, the last time the Fed raised interest rates.
   TDBack on June 29, 2006, the Fed raised the short-term rate it controls from 5 percent to 5.25 percent. Even though it had raised that rate 16 times since mid-2004, the Fed's policymakers still saw "some inflation risks."

At the time, only a handful of Cassandras were warning that the economy faced risks and that higher rates may not be such a good idea. After all, unemployment, at 4.6 percent, was extremely low. And the Fed's preferred inflation gauge had risen around 3 percent from a year earlier — a bit too high for Fed policymakers.

The month after the Fed last raised rates, housing prices peaked and then fell into a gut-churning drop that would last 5½ years. The housing market's collapse ignited a financial panic that wiped out hundreds of banks, very nearly toppled the financial system and sent the American economy into the worst recession since the 1930s.

The Fed would wait more than nine years before raising rates again. On Wednesday, Fed policymakers raised the short-term rate they control to a range of 0.25 percent to 0.50 percent from between zero and 0.25 percent.

The rate hike ends an interest-rate easing cycle that began in 2007. The Fed acted swiftly that September to chop rates. And it kept chopping. In December 2008, the Fed cut its benchmark short-term rate all the way to a record low near zero and held it there for nearly seven years.

In the years that followed, the economy mounted a fitful recovery, constrained by lingering damage from the Great Recession of 2007-2009. Unemployment peaked at 10 percent in 2009 before sliding steadily to a seven-year low 5 percent last month.

The Fed kept a lid on interest rates, which have remained astonishingly low by historical standards. The average rate on a 30-year fixed-rate mortgage remains just 3.95 percent, compared with 6.7 percent in June 2006. The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note is 2.31 percent, less than half the 5.22 percent yield in June 2006.

Despite the shrunken unemployment rate, the job market remains scarred by recession: The percentage of Americans who either have a job or are looking for one is stuck near a 38-year low. One reason is that many people have just given up out of frustration.

Inflation, a bit too high in June 2006, is now disturbingly low — up just 0.2 percent in the year to October, nowhere near the Fed's 2 percent target.

The real estate market has bounced back from its lows. But housing construction in October was still 41 percent below where it was in June 2006.

Zero interest rates did fuel a surge in stock prices: The Dow Jones industrial average is up 57 percent from the last time the Fed raised rates.

And tastes have changed, too. The iPhone has buried the BlackBerry. Gasoline prices have plummeted. Twitter has 320 million active monthly users. "American Idol," a victim of falling ratings after the loss of stars Simon Cowell and Paula Abdul, is facing cancellation. The musical competition begins its last season in January.

Then Now

Unemployment rate4.6%5%

Labor force participation rate66.2%62.5%

30-year fixed rate mortgage6.68%3.95%

10-year Treasury note yield5.22%2.31%

Dow Jones Industrial Average11,190.8017,585.97

Median home price (of existing home sold)$229,500$219,600

___

Pylas contributed from London.
   ARTFILE - In this Thursday, Jan. 19, 2006, file photo, an Atlas V rocket that carried the New Horizons spacecraft to Pluto lifts off at the Cape Canaveral Air Force Station in  Florida. It took the spacecraft around 9 1/2 years to reach Pluto, about the same length of time it has taken the Federal Reserve to raise interest rates. On Wednesday, Dec. 16, 2015, the U.S. Fed raised interest rates for the first time since June, 2006, and ending years of record low rates. (AP Photo/Terry Renna, File) | FILE - In this Thursday June 29, 2006, file photo, employees of KV Execution Services watch a television screen on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange, as the U.S. Federal Reserve raised its main interest rate to 5.25 percent. However, a housing bust and a global financial crisis soon saw the Fed slashing rates, eventually to near zero percent. On Wednesday, Dec, 16, 2015, the Fed raised rates for the first time in nearly a decade. (AP Photo/Richard Drew, File) | FILE - In this Friday, June 16, 2006 file photo, President George W. Bush at Boeing Field in Seattle, Wash. Later that month, the Federal Reserve raised its main interest rate to 5.25 percent with the U.S. economy seemingly performing strongly. When Bush left the White House in Jan. 2009, the U.S. economy was in real trouble following the global financial crisis which prompted the Fed to slash rates to near zero percent. On Wednesday, Dec. 16, 2015, the Fed has raised interest rates for the first time in nearly a decade. (AP Photo/Gerald Herbert, File) | FILE - In this Sunday July 23, 2006 file photo, Tiger Woods celebrates after winning the British Open Golf Championship in Hoylake, England. Woods was world number 1 when the U.S. Federal Reserve last raised interest rates before its decision on Wednesday, Dec. 16, 2015, to lift its main rate. Few doubted then that Woods would overtake Jack Nicklaus' haul of 18 major wins, but Woods has only added 3 more since and remains 4 short of Nicklaus. (AP Photo/Jon Super, File) | FILE - In this Sunday, July 9, 2006 file photo Fabio Cannavaro lifts the soccer World Cup trophy after Italy defeated France in the final in the Olympic Stadium in Berlin, Germany. The World Cup was in full swing when the U.S. Federal Reserve last raised interest rates before its decision Wednesday, Dec. 16, 2015, to lift its main interest rate from record lows of near zero percent. (AP Photo/Luca Bruno, File) | File - In this  Friday, June 23, 2006 file photo, the Rev. Jesse Jackson leads a demonstration against oil company BP in Los Angeles over high gas prices. Concern over the inflation outlook in light of rising energy prices was partly behind the U.S. Federal Reserve's decision later that month to lift its main interest rate to 5.25 percent. On Wednesday, Dec. 16, 2015, the Fed raised interest rates for the first time in nearly a decade even though oil prices are at multi-year lows and inflation remains subdued. (AP Photo/Nick Ut, File) | FILE - In this March 29, 2006, file photo, YouTube co-founders Chad Hurley, left, and Steven Chen, pose with their laptops at their office loft in San Mateo, Calif. Social media was just gaining traction when the U.S. Federal Reserve last raised interest rates in June 2006, before its decision Wednesday, Dec. 16, 2015, to hike its main interest rate from near zero record lows. Twitter, for example, was barely three months old. (AP Photo/Tony Avelar, File) | FILE - In this Wednesday, June 28, 2006 file photo, Colombian singer Shakira performs in Barcelona, Spain. Shakira's "Hips Don't Lie" was top of the Billboard Hot 100 chart in June 2006 when the U.S. Federal Reserve last raised interest rate before its decision Wednesday, Dec. 16, 2015 to lift its main rate, after years of record lows. (AP Photo/Manu Fernandez, File) | FILE - In this Wednesday, May 10, 2006, file photo, a toy version of Lightning McQueen, the star of Disney-Pixar's "Cars" is shown ahead of the film's release. The animated movie was a big hit at the box office when the U.S. Federal Reserve last raised interest rates in June, 2006. On Wednesday, Dec. 16, 2015, the Fed increased interest rates for the first time in nearly a decade. Lightning McQueen remains hugely popular. (AP Photo/Mark Lennihan, File) | FILE- In this Tuesday, May 2, 2006 file photo, a Blackberry device is on display in New York. Back in 2006 when the U.S. Federal Reserve last raised interest rates before its rate-hike decision Wednesday, Dec. 16, 2015, Blackberry phones were riding high particularly in the world of business. Apple's subsequent launch of the iPhone is widely blamed for Blackberry's fall from grace. Now Blackberry has minimal market share and recently launched its latest attempt at a comeback. (AP Photo/Mark Lennihan, File)      NSe1202 : Interest Rates | e1116 : Employment/Unemployment | e211 : Government Taxation/Revenue | gent : Arts/Entertainment | gpol : Domestic Politics | gtvrad : Television/Radio | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Monetary Policy | e21 : Government Finance | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCw   IPDUS | Fed Rate Hike | Then and Now | Photo Gallery | BC-US--Fed Rate Hike-Then and Now-Photo Gallery | POLITICIAN | PERSON | Jesse Jackson, Jr. | Saddam Hussein | TV_PERSONALITY | ENTERTAINMENT_FIGURE | Simon Cowell | MUSICIAN | DANCER | Paula Abdul | Business | General news | Economy | Financial crisis | Recessions and depressions | Economic policy | Government business and finance | Government and politics | Government policy | Debt and bond markets | Financial markets | Prices | Industrial products and services | Industries | Labor economy | Leading economic indicators | Spot Development | AP English Worldstream - English   PUBThe Associated Press   ANDocument APRS000020151216ebcg00b7e  

 Morning MoneyBeat Europe: Stocks Gain After Fed’s Rate Rise
WSJ Blogs, 10:05, 17 December 2015, 913 words, (English)
Please feel free to send this email to friends and colleagues and include this link so they can sign up to receive it for free too  http://on.wsj.com/MoneyBeatEuropeSignup
Document WCWSJB0020151217ebch000rt



 SEEconomy   HDU.S. Businesses Worry Stronger Dollar May Weigh on Growth and Exports; Fed officials cite improving U.S. economy as they raise rates, but some don’t see it   CRA Wall Street Journal Roundup   WC1,005 words   PD17 December 2015   ET01:23   SNThe Wall Street Journal Online   SCWSJO   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
   LPAmerican businesses fretted that the first \b interest rate\b0  increase in seven years came at a time when a strong U.S. dollaralready is sapping demand for exports and low energy and commodity prices are weighing on growth in the industrial economy.
   TDThe \b Federal Reserve\b0 's move Wednesday to raise short-term rates by a quarter percentage point was hardly a surprise to U.S. executives, but it comes as industrial manufacturers such as 3M Co. and Honeywell International Inc. offer cautious sales forecasts, as agriculture commodities are in their third year of declining prices, as transportation firms contend with sagging freight volumes, and as food and beverage companies struggle with the strong dollar sapping sales growth.

In making its move to raise rates, the Fed pointed to a strengthening U.S. labor market, more robust household spending and increasing business investment, while noting that exports have been soft. The Fed officials said they expect more gradual rate increases in the coming years.

That assessment, however, didn't jibe with what some businesses are experiencing.

“We're worried because we're seeing leading indicators showing the economy is not in great shape," said Glenn Riggs, senior vice president at Odyssey Logistics & Transportation, which books freight transportation for businesses and operates a fleet of about 300 trucks. “If they raise interest rates and things further slow down, that would be a bigger worry."

Freight volumes sagged this fall, as manufacturing activity slowed and retailers cut back on imports. Further interest rate hikes also could increase the cost of borrowing to upgrade trucking fleets, Mr. Riggs said.

Major businesses from AT&T Inc. to Johnson & Johnson to International Flavors & Fragrances Inc. played down the immediate impact of Wednesday's rate increase on business prospects.

“I think to a certain extent, having 10 years with no interest rate increases is unnatural," said General Electric Co. Chief Executive Jeff Immelt. “And I think what's difficult is there's just nothing inflationary. And I think that makes it harder for the regulators to figure out what to do."?

Longer term, however, further interest rate hikes could add to businesses' borrowing costs, cool capital spending, and prompt a reassessment of inventory levels.

Jane Morreau, chief financial officer at Jack Daniel's maker Brown-Forman Corp., said the real effect will be further strengthening the U.S. dollar—an issue that already is weighing on results at beverage alcohol companies.

Earlier this month, Brown-Forman said that it expects weakening foreign currencies in markets such as Russia and Australia to negatively affect results by 5 cents per share during its current fiscal year.

But Ms. Morreau said she trusts that the rate increase signals “an improving U.S. economy, which could benefit our business." The U.S. accounts for about 40% of the company's sales.

General Motors Co. and home improvement retailer Lowe's Cos. said the Fed's decision reflects the strength in the U.S. economy that the auto and housing industries have been experiencing.

“Auto sales are at a new peak," a GM spokesman said. “We don't expect the rate hike to have any measurable impact on new vehicles sales given the underlying strength of the U.S. economy."

Lowe's Cos. Chief Financial Officer Bob Hull said the prospect of higher mortgage and borrowing rates could prompt prospective home buyers to act sooner, and jolt some homeowners to splurge on major renovations.

Mr. Hull expects the housing market to only slow after the 30-year fixed mortgage rates exceed 6% from their current level of about 4%.

Still, many companies have been citing weak economic growth around the globe.

Honeywell forecast sales growth in its core businesses, excluding acquisitions, of just 1% to 2% next year largely due to the troubles in the oil and gas sector. “We're exiting 2015 at a slower growth rates than we had anticipated at this time last year," Chief Financial Officer Tom Szlosek said Wednesday before the Fed's announcement.

U.S. farmers already struggling with lower prices of major crops such as corn and soybeans for the third consecutive year could be further hurt.

Rising global crop stockpiles and the strengthening of the dollar have weighed on U.S. grain exports. And a string of benchmark rate increases at a time when central bankers in Japan and Europe are easing monetary policy would further fuel the dollar's rise, analysts said.

“If we see a rate increase, it just reinforces the economic health of the U.S. and reinforces the backing of a strong dollar, which is overall a negative for the farm segment," said Joe Lardy, research manager for the brokerage unit of CHS Inc., the biggest U.S. farm cooperative.

Ron DeFeo, executive chairman of Terex Corp., a maker of cranes and other heavy machinery, said the Fed's move was positive in that it “takes some uncertainty away."

For now, weak commodity and oil prices have plunged parts of industry into “recession-like conditions," Mr. DeFeo said, but consumers are doing better and their spending eventually should boost manufacturing.

Meanwhile, Ryan Lance, chief executive of ConocoPhillips, said that the interest rate increase, which the Federal Reserve hopes will spur inflation, is at odds with the current reality for energy companies, which are in the midst of aggressive cost cutting.

In “our business that's a concept that is completely out of the radar screen right now," Mr. Lance told an audience in New York at the Council on Foreign Relations. “I review every week what our deflation capture numbers are."

Brian Baskin, Tripp Mickle, Jacob Bunge, Ruth Simon, Joann S. Lublin, Bob Tita, Ted Mann, Ryan Knutson, Julie Jargon, Peter Loftus, Mike Esterl, Gautham Nagesh, Erin Ailworth and James R. Haggerty contributed to this article.
   COaldchm : Honeywell International Inc | mmmuk : 3M Company | fed : Federal Reserve Board   INi814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services | i3442 : Environmental Control Systems | i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | iindele : Industrial Electronics | iindstrls : Industrial Goods | itech : Technology   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | e12 : Monetary Policy   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPDPRO | SYND | WSJ-PRO-CB | WSJ-PRO-WSJ.com | Glenn Riggs | Jeff Immelt | Jane Morreau | Bob Hull | Tom Szlosek | Ron DeFeo | Ryan Lance | WSJ.com | Economy   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument WSJO000020151216ebcg005sf  



 SEMarkets   HDChile’s Central Bank Raises  Interest Rate  to 3.5%; No rate change had been expected after inflation eased to within target range in November   BYBy Ryan Dube      WC278 words   PD17 December 2015   ET22:51   SNThe Wall Street Journal Online   SCWSJO   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
   LPChile's central bank on Thursday raised its benchmark interest rate by 25 basis points to 3.5%, a day after the U.S. Federal Reserve increased its interest rate.

Many economists had expected the central bank to keep its rate on hold after inflation eased back to within its target range in November.
   TDBut the central bank said in a statement that it expects inflation to rise above its upper target range again in the short term. The central bank aims to keep inflation within a range of 2% to 4%. In November, the annual inflation rate was 3.9%.

The central bank said its decision also took into account that the outlook for the global economy hasn't changed since November as emerging markets continue to struggle with lower commodity prices.

Chile's monetary authority added that the Federal Reserve's first rate increase in almost a decade hadn't provoked “significant changes in global financial markets.

“The board reaffirms its commitment to manage the monetary policy with flexibility, in a way that projected inflation reaches 3% in the policy horizon," it said.

The last time the central bank increased its policy rate was in October, when it hiked it by 25 basis points over concerns about inflation, which had reached 4.6% in September and 5% in August.

Chile's economy is expected to grow just over 2% this year, compared with 1.9% in 2014.

Write to Ryan Dube at ryan.dube@dowjones.com
   COcbkchl : Banco Central de Chile | fed : Federal Reserve Board   INi814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | e1103 : Inflation/Prices | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | ecat : Economic News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Monetary Policy   REchil : Chile | usa : United States | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | lamz : Latin America | namz : North America | samz : South America   IPDPRO | SYND | WSJ-PRO-CB | WSJPRO | Markets Main   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument WSJO000020151217ebch008n5  



 SEWorld   HDVietnam to Cut Dollar Deposit  Interest Rate  Friday; Country’s central bank sticking to its target of keeping the exchange rate stable   BYBy Vu Trong Khanh      WC316 words   PD17 December 2015   ET18:40   SNThe Wall Street Journal Online   SCWSJO   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
   LPHANOI—The State Bank of Vietnam will cut the interest rate of dollar-denominated deposits offered by local banks starting Friday, it said late Thursday, shortly after the U.S. Federal Reserve raised its interest rate.

The interest rate for dollar-denominated deposits will be cut to 0% from 0.25% for individual depositors, while the rate for corporate depositors will remain at 0%, the country's central bank said in a statement.
   TDThe move is aimed at discouraging people from holding the U.S. currency, the central bank said, at a time when the dong/dollar exchange rate is facing pressure as the result of the Fed's rate increase and the traditional rise in the demand for the dollar ahead of the year-end.

The central bank has so far this year devalued the Vietnamese dong by a cumulative 5% and widened the dong's trading band against the dollar to 3% from 1% as a pre-emptive step to cope with the U.S. rate rising and in response to the depreciation of the Chinese yuan.

The central bank said after its latest dong devaluation in August that it would keep the exchange rate unchanged at least until the end of this year, and even during the first months of next year, despite the Fed rate increase.

Deputy governor of the central bank, Nguyen Thi Hong, said Thursday the central bank will stick to its target of keeping the exchange rate stable.

Ms. Hong said dollar supply has been on the positive side, with Vietnam reporting a trade surplus over the past two months, while foreign direct investment and remittance inflows having been robust.

Write to Vu Trong Khanh at Trong-Khanh.Vu@dowjones.com
   COfed : Federal Reserve Board | stavet : State Bank of Vietnam   INi814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services   NSm132 : Foreign Exchange News | e1202 : Interest Rates | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | ecat : Economic News | e12 : Monetary Policy | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter   REvietn : Vietnam | usa : United States | asiaz : Asia | apacz : Asia Pacific | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | indochz : Indo-China | namz : North America | seasiaz : Southeast Asia   IPDPRO | SYND | WSJ-PRO-CB | WSJ-PRO-WSJ.com | Nguyen Thi Hong | WSJ.com | Asia News   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument WSJO000020151217ebch006bt  

 Fed Interest-Rate Decision and Janet Yellen’s Press Conference—Recap
WSJ Blogs, 22:40, 16 December 2015, 6872 words, (English)
The Federal Reserve decided Wednesday to lift its interest-rate target from near zero, seven years after it pushed its benchmark rate to the floor during the financial crisis. In a press conference after a two-day meeting, Fed Chairwoman ...
Document WCWSJB0020151216ebcg00231

 Fed's Yellen Explains Interest-Rate Increase
Wall Street Journal Video, 16 December 2015, 228 words, (English)
Summary: Federal Reserve Chairwoman Janet Yellen said a modest rise in interest rates "is now appropriate," in her press conference following policy makers' move to raise rates for the first time since the financial crisis. Photo: Getty
Document MMSAJB0020151216ebcg000rt



 HDFed raises its key  interest rate  from record low near zero   BYBy MARTIN CRUTSINGER      CRAP Economics Writer   WC1,113 words   PD17 December 2015   ET05:49   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2015.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPWASHINGTON (AP) — The Federal Reserve is raising interest rates from record lows set at the depths of the 2008 financial crisis, a shift that heralds modestly higher rates on some loans.

The Fed coupled its first rate hike in nine years with a signal that further increases will likely be made slowly as the economy strengthens further and inflation rises from undesirably low levels.
   TDWednesday's action signaled the central bank's belief that the economy has finally regained enough strength 6½ years after the Great Recession ended to withstand modestly higher borrowing rates.

"The Fed's decision today reflects our confidence in the U.S. economy," Chair Janet Yellen said at a news conference.

The Fed said in a statement after its latest meeting that it was lifting its key rate by a quarter-point to a range of 0.25 percent to 0.5 percent. Its move ends an extraordinary seven-year period of near-zero borrowing rates. But the Fed's statement suggested that rates would remain historically low well into the future, saying it expects "only gradual increases."

"The Fed reaffirmed that the pace of rate hikes would be slow," James Marple, senior economist at TD Economics wrote in a research note. "The Fed's expectations for rate hikes next year are set alongside a relatively cautious and entirely achievable economic outlook."

Stocks closed up sharply higher. The Dow Jones industrial average, which had been up modestly before the announcement, gained 224 points, or 1.3 percent, for the day.

The bond market didn't react much. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note rose slightly to 2.29 percent.

Rates on mortgages and car loans aren't expected to rise much soon. The Fed's benchmark rate doesn't directly affect them. Long-term mortgages, for example, tend to track 10-year U.S. Treasury yields, which will likely stay low as long as inflation does and investors keep buying Treasurys.

But rates on some other loans, like credit cards and home equity credit lines, will likely rise, though probably only slightly as long as the Fed's rate hikes remain modest.

Shortly after the Fed's announcement, major banks began announcing that they were raising their prime lending rate from 3.25 percent to 3.50 percent. The prime rate is a benchmark for some types of consumer loans such as home equity loans. Wells Fargo was the first bank to announce the rate hike.

Among other things, the Fed's low-interest rate policies have helped jump-start auto sales, which are on track to reach a record 17.5 million this year. And the Fed's first hike may not slow them.

Steven Szakaly, chief economist for the National Automobile Dealers Association, says dealers will press financing companies to keep loan rates low. And competition for buyers will spur them to take other steps to hold down rates, such as accepting lower profits.

"The rate squeeze will happen between the dealer and its finance company rather than the dealer and the consumers," Szakaly said. "Consumers won't even feel it."

For months, Yellen and other Fed officials have said they expected any rate hikes to be small and gradual. But nervous investors have been looking for further assurances.

Yellen indicated that Wednesday's rate hike was partially defensive. If rates stayed at near zero, the Fed might not have the tools to combat a recession.

"We've worried about the fact that with interest rates at zero, we have less scope to respond to negative shocks," she said at her news conference.

When growth struggles, the Fed often cuts rates to help increase the amount of cash flowing through the economy. But by staying close to zero, the Fed would be unable to cut rates or it would be forced to have negative rates for the first time in its history.

An updated economic forecast released with the policy statement showed that Fed officials predict that their target for the federal funds rate — the rate that banks charge on overnight loans — will end next year slightly above 1 percent. That is in line with the consensus view of economists.

The Fed's action was approved by a unanimous vote of 10-0, giving Yellen a victory in achieving consensus.

The statement struck a generally more upbeat tone in its assessment of the economy. It cited "considerable improvement" in the job market. And it expressed more confidence that inflation, which has been running well below the Fed's 2 percent target, would begin rising. It suggested this would happen as the effects of declines in energy and import prices fade and the job market strengthens further.

In addition to the funds rate, the Fed is raising three other rates: It lifted the interest it pays on the reserves that banks hold at the Fed to 0.5 percent from 0.25 percent. It raised the rate it pays on a type of short-term loan to 0.25 percent from 0.05 percent. The Fed plans to use those two rates to help meet its new higher target for the funds rate.

In addition, it announced a quarter-point increase in its discount borrowing rate to 1 percent from 0.75 percent. This is the rate banks pay when they borrow emergency loans from the central bank. This rate typically moves up in conjunction with the Fed's benchmark rate.

___

AP Business Writers Paul Wiseman and Josh Boak in Washington and Tom Krisher in Detroit contributed to this report.

___

Watch AP video: https://youtu.be/e8fwVFSgx9E
   ARTFederal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen speaks during a news conference in Washington, Wednesday, Dec. 16, 2015, following an announcement that the Federal Reserve raised its key interest rate by quarter-point, heralding higher lending rates in an economy much sturdier than the one the Fed helped rescue in 2008. (AP Photo/Susan Walsh) | Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen speaks during a news conference in Washington, Wednesday, Dec. 16, 2015, following an announcement that the Federal Reserve raised its key interest rate by quarter-point, heralding higher lending rates in an economy much sturdier than the one the Fed helped rescue in 2008. (AP Photo/Susan Walsh) | Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen answers a question during a news conference in Washington, Wednesday, Dec. 16, 2015, following an announcement that the Federal Reserve raised its key interest rate by quarter-point, heralding higher lending rates in an economy much sturdier than the one the Fed helped rescue in 2008. (AP Photo/Susan Walsh)      COfed : Federal Reserve Board   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | e1116 : Employment/Unemployment | gpol : Domestic Politics | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCf   IPDUS | Federal | Reserve | BC-US--Federal Reserve,11th Ld-Writethru | National | GOVERNMENT_FIGURE | PERSON | Janet Yellen | Business | General news | Economic outlook | Economy | Recessions and depressions | Economic policy | Government business and finance | Government and politics | Government policy | Prices | Financial services | Industries | Personal loans | Personal finance | Real estate | Consumer products and services | Labor economy | Leading economic indicators | Spot Development | F Level Ds (9----) | AP Business News (F Wire)   PUBThe Associated Press   ANDocument APRS000020151216ebcg00aw3  



 HDIndia Shares Open Higher After Fed Rate Hike -- Market Talk   WC1,760 words   PD17 December 2015   ET05:44   SNDow Jones Institutional News   SCDJDN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright © 2015, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.   
   LP0444 GMT [Dow Jones] Indian shares open higher Thursday tracking gains in other regional market after the U.S. Federal Reserve rate hike. The S&P BSE Sensex is now up 0.1% at 25,519.28, after rising as much as 0.6% at the opening. "The credit for the orderly market behaviour goes to the Fed for adopting an effective communication strategy in preparing the markets ahead of the actual lift-off," says a research note from ICICI Bank. Given the start of normalisation process, future policy moves are likely to be slow and calibrated, it adds. Among the major gainers on the Sensex, State Bank of India (500112.BY) rises 1.5%, Tata Steel (500470.BY) gains 1.4%, while Gail (532155.BY) is up 1.7%. (debiprasad.nayak@wsj.com) 


 
Editor: KLH 
 
   TD0442 GMT [Dow Jones] Tokyo shares are trimming some of their earlier gains in the afternoon session, as individual investors are trying to lock in profits, says Tomoichiro Kubota, senior market analyst at Matsui Securities. The Nikkei Stock Average is now up 1.9% at 19,402.91. The index is expected to hover between 19,000-20,000 for the rest of the year as foreign investors are expected to leave the market soon for Christmas holidays, he says. "While sharp adjustments below the 19,000 threshold is unlikely in the near term, it would also be difficult to find a positive cue to push up the index above the 20,000 mark," he says. (megumi.fujikawa@wsj.com) 


 
Editor: KLH 
 

0429 GMT [Dow Jones] The U.S interest rate hike and the Federal Reserve's plan to increase it gradually in the future signal more uncertainty for the emerging economies, including Malaysia, says Kenanga. Malaysia's central bank will face a tough choice between supporting the economy or defending the local currency, the Kuala Lumpur-based brokerage says. "For now we believe that Bank Negara Malaysia (Malaysia's central bank) would err on supporting growth," Kenanga says in a note to clients. Bank Negara Malaysia is unlikely to make any rate adjustment for now barring any disruptive financial or geopolitical events, Kenanga says. It expects Malaysia's central bank to maintain the overnight policy rate at 3.25% in 2016. (yantoultra.ngui@wsj.com; Twitter: @yantoultra) 


 
Editor JSM 
 

0409 GMT [Dow Jones] The hike in U.S. interest rates for the first time since 2006 is likely to raise expectations of further yuan depreciation and limit room for further interest rate cuts by the People's Bank of China, in turn raising expectations for further growth in outbound property investment by Chinese people. Many individual property owners and institutional investors in China are buying property abroad to diversify their assets, driven in part by the weakening yuan. The domestic property market is unlikely to be too affected by the U.S. rate hike, with oversupply issues and the economic slowdown having a bigger impact. Real estate consultancy CBRE Research says it expects mild yield decompression across most asset classes--with the exception of logistics real estate--and across more cities in 2016. (esther.fung@wsj.com, @estherfung) 


 
Editor: KLH 
 

0351 GMT [Dow Jones]Rubber prices have bounced in early trading, likely due to an improvement in sentiment following a rebound in crude prices overnight and some bargain hunting after sharp falls on Wednesday. However, some of the early gains have been pared following moves lower in crude in early Asian trading. Fundamentals remain weak for rubber with markets continuing to be concerned about demand for the commodity from China and ongoing high supplies. Tocom May Rubber prices are trading up Y3.5 at Y164.4 a ton. (lucy.craymer@wsj.com;Twitter: @lucy_craymer) 


 
Editor: DWT 
 

0349 GMT [Dow Jones] Hong Kong banking stocks are trading up, even though the Hong Kong Monetary Authority raised its base rate by 25 basis points to 0.75% effective Thursday, matching the interest-rate rise by the U.S. Federal Reserve. BOC Hong Kong (2388.HK) advances 2.2% at HK$23.70; Hang Seng Bank (0011.HK) rises 1% at HK$145.10; Chong Hing Bank (1111.HK) jumps 1.5% at HK$15.98. "Despite the HKMA Base Rate hike today, we do not think the commercial banks' best lending rate will be hiked any time soon, as it has been kept at a much higher level following the 2008 crisis," says Nomura. The investment bank expects the Fed to deliver two more interest rate hikes by the end of 2016. Therefore, the house expects the HKMA to deliver two more 25 basis point base rate hikes in 2016. The territory's currency peg to the U.S. dollar pins its monetary policy to that of the U.S., so the HKMA generally follows in lock step any interest-rate adjustments by the Federal Reserve.(yvonne.lee@wsj.com) 


 
Editor: KLH 
 

0346 GMT [Dow Jones] Barclays says the surprising decline in Singapore's main non-oil domestic exports in November was primarily due to a decline in the shipments of pharmaceutical drugs, as well as the persistent downturn in rig building. While pharmaceutical shipments and production in Singapore is notoriously volatile--exports fell 12.5% on-Year in November after a 44.6% growth in October--Barclays says the prolonged weakness in marine engineering is a bigger concern. "Falling oil prices have resulted in a significant reduction in oil drilling activities, which is taking a toll on rig builders as customers request to cancel or defer orders," it says. Barclays says the data confirm its view that weak external demand and a slower rebuilding of inventories are likely to keep growth momentum subdued into 2016. Barclays expects the Monetary Authority of Singapore to stand pat at its April policy review. (gaurav.raghuvanshi@wsj.com) 


 
Editor: KLH 
 

0345 GMT [Dow Jones] Vietnam won't likely make any adjustment to its monetary policy in the short term even after the U.S. Federal Reserve's rate hike overnight, economist Le Tham Duong with the Ho Chi Minh City Banking University said. "The central bank had anticipated the fed hike and already devalued the dong by 5% so far this year, more than its previously planned devaluation of 2%," Duong said. Duong noted that the central bank has pledged not to make any adjustment to the exchange rate until at least early next year. "However, the dong might still come under pressure from now until the year-end due to the traditional increase in demand for the greenback towards the year-end, and due to expectation for further devaluation next year," he said. He said how the Chinese yuan reacts to the Fed rate hike is also important for Vietnam, given that China is Vietnam's largest trading partner. (trong-khanh.vu@wsj.com=; Twitter: @TrongKhanhVu) 


 
Editor JSM 
 

0342 GMT [Dow Jones] The 2015 El Nino event is nearing its peak, with outlooks suggesting the event is likely to decline from early 2016, Australia's Bureau of Meteorology says in a note. "El Nino's influence on Australian rainfall is variable at this time of year, with both wetter and drier summers observed in past events depending on how quickly the event breaks down." It adds the wet season are likely to see below normal rainfall levels in Australia's tropical north while temperatures are likely to be warmer than average in the east and north and cooler in parts of the southeast.(lucy.craymer@wsj.com; Twitter: @lucy_craymer) 


 
Editor JSM 
 

0309 GMT [Dow Jones] Singapore's main non-oil domestic exports unexpectedly contract 3.3% on-year in November and may be an indication that Asia remains mired in a trade recession even as the U.S. Federal Reserve starts raising rates, ANZ says. The weakness in Singapore's exports raises "the risk that the Asia economic (particularly trade) data continues to disappoint well into the Fed normalisation cycle," ANZ says. Specifically, the increasingly services-led recovery in the U.S. and reduced reliance on imports in the Chinese supply chain is trade negative for Asia, it says. Singapore's shipments to China declined 9.1% on-year in November, compared with a 8.7% on-year fall in the previous month. Shipments to Europe were down 6.2%, though exports to the U.S. gained 10.8%. (gaurav.raghuvanshi@wsj.com) 


 
Editor JSM 
 

0308 GMT [Dow Jones] The Philippine peso is slightly stronger Thursday, helped by improving risk appetite as seen in the local stock market's 1.9% rally after the U.S. Federal Reserve raised interest rates with a positive outlook for the economy, removing some uncertainty for investors. USD/PHP now trades at 47.30 versus its last closing of 47.34, implying a marginal gain for the peso versus the greenback, but a bullish-USD chart signal could remain in force and motivate peso weakness in the near term. The daily Bollinger uptrend channel will be reaffirmed if USD/PHP ends the day above 47.27. Volatility for the peso can be expected as the market awaits Bangko Sentral ng Pilipina's rate decision later today. The Philippine central bank said it will consider the Fed's rate-rise in making its own monetary policy decision. A rate adjustment today is unlikely, but the tone of the central bank may shift following the Fed's stance. Any hint that the BSP may lift rates in the future could be detrimental to the peso's value due to its implication on domestic economic growth. (ewen.chew@wsj.com) 


 
Editor: KLH 
 

0300 GMT [Dow Jones] NZD/USD Intraday: Key support at 0.6735. The pair is fluctuating between 0.6835 and 0.6735 after the U.S. Federal Reserve's rate-hike decision. A support base at 0.6735 has formed, and should limit any downward attempts. The technical indicator such as relative strength index is mixed, and calls for caution. To sum up, as long as 0.6735 holds on the downside, look for a limited rise to 0.6805 & 0.6835 in extension. Alternatively, below 0.6735 look for further downside with 0.6685 & 0.6665 as targets. Trading Central (tradingcentral.com) is a commentary service specializing in technical analysis. (jasper.moiseiwitsch@wsj.com) 


 
Editor JSM 

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

December 16, 2015 23:44 ET (04:44 GMT)
   COfed : Federal Reserve Board   INi81402 : Commercial Banking | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | i81401 : Central Banking | i22 : Primary Metals | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | ifinal : Financial Services   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | mrubb : Rubber Markets | c1521 : Analysts' Comments/Recommendations | m11 : Equity Markets | namt : All Market Talk | ndjmt : Dow Jones Market Talk | nenac : Energy Asset Class News | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | nfiac : Fixed Income Asset Class News | nfxacb : Forex Asset Class Basic News | nfxacp : Forex Asset Class Premium News | nsmcm : Stock Market Commentary | c15 : Financial Performance | c152 : Earnings Projections | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e12 : Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m14 : Commodity Markets | m141 : Agricultural Commodity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter   REusa : United States | malay : Malaysia | china : China | india : India | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | indsubz : Indian Subcontinent | namz : North America | sasiaz : Southern Asia | seasiaz : Southeast Asia   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument DJDN000020151217ebch0009p  





 HDTraders work on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange after U.S.  Federal Reserve  raised interest rates in New York   BYLUCAS JACKSON      CRREUTERS   WC141 words   PD16 December 2015   ET20:44   SNReuters Pictures   SCX90066   LAEnglish   CY2015 Reuters   
   LPTraders work on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) as a television screen displays coverage of U.S. Federal Reserve Chairmman Janet Yellen shortly after the announcement that the U.S. Federal Reserve had hiked interest rates for the first time in nearly a decade in New York, December 16, 2015. The U.S. central bank's policy-setting committee raised the range of its benchmark interest rate by a quarter of a percentage point to between 0.25 percent and 0.50 percent, ending a lengthy debate about whether the economy was strong enough to withstand higher borrowing costs. REUTERS/Lucas Jackson
   RFMARK | RPA | NULL | RTRPIX | FIN | STX | NYK155 | MS/YJ/ | GF10000268146   COfed : Federal Reserve Board   INibcs : Business/Consumer Services   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | m11 : Equity Markets | e12 : Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter   REnamz : North America | nyc : New York City | usa : United States | usny : New York State | use : Northeast U.S.   IPCFIN | STX   IPDUSA-FED/   ANDocument X900660020151216ebcg000b5  




 HDTraders work on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange after U.S.  Federal Reserve  raised interest rates in New York   BYLUCAS JACKSON      CRREUTERS   WC142 words   PD16 December 2015   ET20:50   SNReuters Pictures   SCX90066   LAEnglish   CY2015 Reuters   
   LPA trader works on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) as a television screen displays coverage of U.S. Federal Reserve Chairmman Janet Yellen shortly after the announcement that the U.S. Federal Reserve had hiked interest rates for the first time in nearly a decade in New York, December 16, 2015. The U.S. central bank's policy-setting committee raised the range of its benchmark interest rate by a quarter of a percentage point to between 0.25 percent and 0.50 percent, ending a lengthy debate about whether the economy was strong enough to withstand higher borrowing costs. REUTERS/Lucas Jackson
   RFMARK | RPA | NULL | RTRPIX | FIN | STX | NYK156 | MS/YJ/ | GF10000268154   COfed : Federal Reserve Board   INibcs : Business/Consumer Services   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | m11 : Equity Markets | e12 : Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter   REnamz : North America | nyc : New York City | usa : United States | usny : New York State | use : Northeast U.S.   IPCFIN | STX   IPDUSA-FED/   ANDocument X900660020151216ebcg000b6  


 SEOpinion   HDUp From Zero; The  Federal Reserve  will pay bailed-out banks more money not to lend.   WC649 words   PD17 December 2015   ET02:03   SNThe Wall Street Journal Online   SCWSJO   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
   LPFinancial markets took the Federal Reserve's interest-rate “liftoff" from near-zero in stride on Wednesday, broadly celebrating the 25 basis point increase in the federal-funds rate. Then again, maybe investors cheered because the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) statement suggested that future rate increases would be gradual and small.

Chair Janet Yellen repeated her mantra that the central bank will be “data dependent," which means inflation will have to move closer to the Fed's 2% target for rates to rise steadily, or perhaps even once more. It's possible the FOMC members believe they had to move off their near-zero-bound after seven years because they had so long signaled it, but they really aren't sure this is the right move. At least the FOMC spoke without dissent, which is helpful at such a policy inflection point.
   TDThe truth is that few people in financial markets are confident that anyone knows how this gradual return to monetary normalcy will turn out. Certainly moving to a fed-funds rate of near 0.25% six-and-a-half years into an economic expansion doesn't qualify as the traditional definition of tight monetary policy.

Some of our friends think the move may even be stimulative if it removes policy uncertainty and begins to revive the moribund interbank lending market. This would vindicate our contributor David Malpass, the late Stanford economist Ronald McKinnon, and the St. Louis Fed's Stephen Williamson, who has written about the zero interest-rate “trap."

On the other hand, financial markets have been anxious for weeks and the world economy has been slowing down. Millions of investors have walked on the wild side of the risk curve at the Federal Reserve's urging during the last seven years, and who knows how many are now over-leveraged or under-hedged?

Another reason for uncertainty is that the Fed will use new and untested tools to manage its interest-rate increases. In normal times it bought and sold short-term Treasurys to influence the fed-funds rate. But the Fed's actions—and its accumulation of a huge balance sheet—since the financial crisis mean it no longer has enough short-term Treasurys to make that work. So instead it is paying banks for the excess reserves they keep at the Fed in order to keep banks from lending more money. This will help the Fed influence rates.

On Wednesday the Fed announced it will now pay banks 50 basis points on their reserves, up from 25. This may well work as a policy tool, but its political implications are fraught if this continues long-term. The Fed will essentially be paying more money to banks that were bailed out so that they won't lend to borrowers that need the money.

With estimated excess reserves of $2.6 trillion, at 50 basis points the Fed will be paying banks about $13 billion a year. This amount will be deducted from the dividend the Fed pays the U.S. Treasury each year, which means it will add to the budget deficit. These Fed excess-reserve payments may be politically manageable now, but what will Congress do as those payments rise along with interest rates? This is one reason that some Fed officials have thought the central bank should have begun reducing its balance sheet before it raised interest rates.

All of which underscores that the Federal Reserve's great monetary experiment is far from over. The central bank's emergency policies were needed during the financial crisis, but their long continuation for so many years has never delivered the liftoff to faster economic growth that the Fed promised. Now we'll see how well it can manage the slow return back to normal monetary policy.
   COfed : Federal Reserve Board   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | nedi : Editorials | e12 : Monetary Policy | ncat : Content Types   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPDSYND | WSJ-PRO-WSJ.com | Janet Yellen | David Malpass | Ronald McKinnon | Stephen Williamson | WSJ.com | Review & Outlook (U.S.)   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument WSJO000020151217ebch000jh  



 SEEconomy   HDFed Rate Decision Doesn’t Warrant Immediate ECB Action, Says Nowotny; Governing council member says decision wasn’t surprising and formed part of ECB’s expectations at last meeting   BYBy Todd Buell      WC373 words   PD17 December 2015   ET17:46   SNThe Wall Street Journal Online   SCWSJO   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
   LPFRANKFURT—The decision of the Federal Reserve to raise interest rates for the first time in nearly a decade doesn't warrant an immediate reaction from the European Central Bank, Governing Council member Ewald Nowotny said Thursday.

Speaking to journalists on the sidelines of an event here, Mr. Nowotny said that the Fed's decision wasn't surprising and formed part of the ECB's expectations at its most recent meeting, when it decided to expand its quantitative easing program.
   TD“I think one has to say that the decision from the side of the Fed wasn't unexpected and it is also in line with our expectations we have had [at the last meeting]. So I do not see any immediate necessities [for] action," said the central banker.

Some economists had worried that the Fed's decision to raise interest rates would cause market rates to rise also in Europe, which would undermine the ECB's efforts to create financing conditions that are accommodative to investment.

Mr. Nowotny, who also heads Austria's central bank, suggested that the ECB was content with its current policy mix. “I think for the time being, what we see is I think a steady-hand policy," he said. “Especially now with regards to analyzing the effects of the U.S. decision, we should do it in the spirit of a steady-hand approach," he said.

He said that while the time had come for the U.S. to change monetary policy “we still have quite substantial differences between the U.S. and the eurozone and therefore will have also for quite some time differences in interest rate policy."

The comments came less than 24 hours after the U.S. Federal Reserve in a highly expected move lifted interest rates for the first time in nearly 10 years. Global stocks surged Thursday as investors were encouraged by the Fed's decision to raise interest rates and the confidence the move showed in the American economy.

Write to Todd Buell at todd.buell@wsj.com
   COeurcb : European Central Bank | oestbk : Oesterreichische Nationalbank | fed : Federal Reserve Board   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | ecat : Economic News | e12 : Monetary Policy   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPDPRO | SYND | WSJ-PRO-CB | WSJ-PRO-WSJ.com | Ewald Nowotny | WSJ.com | Europe Economy   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument WSJO000020151217ebch005v7  





 HDTraders work on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange after U.S.  Federal Reserve  raised interest rates in New YOrk   BYLUCAS JACKSON      CRREUTERS   WC133 words   PD16 December 2015   ET20:16   SNReuters Pictures   SCX90066   LAEnglish   CY2015 Reuters   
   LPTraders work on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) shortly after the announcement that the U.S. Federal Reserve had hiked interest rates for the first time in nearly a decade in New York, December 16, 2015. The U.S. central bank's policy-setting committee raised the range of its benchmark interest rate by a quarter of a percentage point to between 0.25 percent and 0.50 percent, ending a lengthy debate about whether the economy was strong enough to withstand higher borrowing costs. REUTERS/Lucas Jackson TPX IMAGES OF THE DAY 
   RFMARK | RPA | NULL | RTRPIX | FIN | STX | TPX | NYK150 | MS/YJ/ | GF10000268076   COfed : Federal Reserve Board   INibcs : Business/Consumer Services   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | m11 : Equity Markets | ntop : Top Wire News | e12 : Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | redit : Selection of Top Stories/Trends/Analysis   REnamz : North America | nyc : New York City | usa : United States | usny : New York State | use : Northeast U.S.   IPCFIN | STX | TPX   IPDUSA-FED/   ANDocument X900660020151216ebcg0008d  




 HDTraders work on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange after U.S.  Federal Reserve  raised interest rates in New York   BYLUCAS JACKSON      CRREUTERS   WC127 words   PD16 December 2015   ET20:19   SNReuters Pictures   SCX90066   LAEnglish   CY2015 Reuters   
   LPTraders work on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) shortly after the announcement that the U.S. Federal Reserve had hiked interest rates for the first time in nearly a decade in New York, December 16, 2015. The U.S. central bank's policy-setting committee raised the range of its benchmark interest rate by a quarter of a percentage point to between 0.25 percent and 0.50 percent, ending a lengthy debate about whether the economy was strong enough to withstand higher borrowing costs. REUTERS/Lucas Jackson
   RFMARK | RPA | NULL | RTRPIX | FIN | STX | NYK153 | MS/YJ/ | GF10000268083   COfed : Federal Reserve Board   INibcs : Business/Consumer Services   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | m11 : Equity Markets | e12 : Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter   REnamz : North America | nyc : New York City | usa : United States | usny : New York State | use : Northeast U.S.   IPCFIN | STX   IPDUSA-FED/   ANDocument X900660020151216ebcg0008e  


 SEMarkets   HDAsian Morning Briefing: U.S. Stocks Climb as Fed Boosts Rates   WC2,122 words   PD16 December 2015   ET23:33   SNThe Wall Street Journal Online   SCWSJO   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
   LPMARKETS AT A GLANCE

(Data as of approximately 5 p.m. ET)
   TD                                                                                                   LAST     CHANGE % CHG
DJIA                      17749.09 224.18 1.28%
Nasdaq                    5071.13  75.77  1.52%
S&P 500                    2073.07  29.66  1.45%
Japan: Nikkei   225     19049.91 484.01 2.61%
Hang Seng               21701.21 426.84 2.01%
Shanghai   Composite 3516.19  5.83   0.17%
S&P BSE   Sensex          25494.37 173.93 0.69%
Australia:   S&P/ASX    5028.4   118.8  2.42%
UK: FTSE 100            6061.19  43.4   0.72%


                                                                                                    PRICE CHG YIELD%
U.S. 2   Year      -2/32    1.005
U.S. 5   Year      -8/32    1.752
U.S. 10   Year     -9/32    2.3
Australia   10 Year -6/32    2.899
China   10 Year   27/32     3.05
India   10 Year    4/32     7.892
Japan   10 Year    -1/32    0.299
German   10 Year   -11/32   0.679


                                                                                                  LAST(MID)  CHANGE
Australia $   (AUD/USD)   0.7235     0.0002
Yen (USD/JPY)             122.22     0
S. Korean Won   (USD/KRW) 1182       0
Chinese Yuan   (USD/CNY)  6.4713     -0.0036
Euro (EUR/USD)            1.0912     -0.0001
WSJ Dollar   Index    90.06      0


                                                                                                    LAST   CHANGE & CHG
Crude Oil35.73  -1.62  -4.34%
Brent   Crude  38.14  -1.19  -3.03%
Gold                     1071.3 9.7    0.91%


                SNAPSHOT:             

U.S. stocks rose, government bonds strengthened and the dollar edged higher after the Federal Reserve said it would raise short-term interest rates for the first time in nine years.  Gold prices pared gains in aftermarket trading, after the Fed's rate move. Oil prices fell to new multiyear lows as U.S. commercial crude and refined-product inventories rose to a record.

                OPENING CALL:             

Central banks in Indonesia and Philippines are both expected to keep interest rates on hold when policymakers meet on Thursday.   Bank Indonesia will likely wait to cut interest rates until next year even as it's looking ways to help spur economic growth until turbulence that may arise from the U.S. Federal Reserve's rate increases and China's slowdown subside.  All 10 economists polled by the Wall Street Journal are expecting the central bank to keep the benchmark BI rate unchanged at 7.50%.  In the Philippines, the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas is also expected to hold off changes to its monetary policy stance through the first half of 2016. All 13 economists in a Wall Street Journal poll predict the BSP will keep policy rates unchanged at its meeting. 

                EQUITIES:             

U.S. stocks rose after the Federal Reserve said it would raise short-term interest rates for the first time in nine years.

The Fed announced a quarter-percentage-point increase in its benchmark federal-funds rate, which it has held near zero since December 2008. The move was widely expected by investors.

The decision to raise rates was unanimous and Fed officials said they would likely lift gradually and see how the economy performs.

The Fed's policy of ultralow rates has helped propel U.S. stocks higher since the financial crisis. Many investors say stocks can continue to advance even after the Fed begins to lift rates, since it underscores the central bank's confidence in the economy.

Reaction was subdued on the floor of the NYSE after the announcement.

Stocks that tend to pay out high dividends, which had rallied in recent years amid low interest rates, led the S&P 500 higher after the Fed decision.

Stock markets in Europe and Asia were closed for trading when the Fed released its decision.

Shares in Asia advanced, catching up with a rally the previous day in energy shares that sent Wall Street to a higher close.

                FOREX:             

The dollar advanced against the euro and the yen after the Federal Reserve raised interest rates for the first time in nearly a decade.

The statement from the last Federal Open Market Committee meeting this year also showed officials lowered estimates for future interest-rate increases from those in September, but not as much as some predicted, analysts said, boosting the U.S. currency.

The Fed language on the pace of monetary tightening sets the tone for the dollar, investors have said. The more rate increases the Fed plans over the course of 2016, the higher the probability for dollar gains, while slower tightening next year would likely spell a weaker dollar.

Higher U.S. rates would make the dollar more attractive as they boost returns on assets denominated in greenbacks

Trading desks at Jefferies, Société Générale and BNP Paribas met the historic news with quiet relief, but generally little excitement, as the rate increase was widely expected, traders said. Light order flow followed.

Broader factors should remain dollar-positive for 2016, said Paresh Upadhyaya, portfolio manager and director of currency strategy at Pioneer Investments. With a data-dependent Fed, the market could re-evaluate its estimate for the pace of tightening on upside surprises in U.S. economic data.

                BONDS:             

U.S. government bonds strengthened, recovering from an earlier price decline, after the Federal Reserve decided to raise interest rates but pointed to a gradual policy-tightening path.

Bond prices had fallen leading into the Fed's rate decision as investors prepared for the first rate increase in nearly a decade. But buyers stepped in shortly after the Fed's interest-rate statement, as they don't expect bond yields to rise significantly on the Fed's gradual approach to raising borrowing costs.

While the two-year note's yield, which is highly sensitive to expected changes in Fed policy, has nearly doubled over the past two months, the 10-year yield's rise has been moderate because that yield is more influenced by factors other than the Fed's short-term rate policy.

Sluggish global economic growth and contained inflation have kept a lid on long-term U.S. bond yields, among the highest in the developed world.

The 10-year yield is modestly higher compared with 2.173% where it traded at the end of 2014. But it was below this year's peak of 2.5% reached in June.

Some market observers are concerned that the Fed's tightening in the face of sluggish global growth could undermine the growth momentum in the U.S., which means higher yields on long-term bonds provide a buying opportunity.

Some analysts warn investors may underestimate the pace of the Fed's rate increases in 2016. Long-term bond yields would jump if inflation flares up next year, which would drive the Fed to raise rates at a faster pace than investors anticipate.

                COMMODITIES:             

Oil prices fell to new multiyear lows as U.S. commercial crude and refined-product inventories rose to a record.

U.S. oil has fallen 15% this month on concerns that the global glut of crude is set to persist into 2016 and possibly beyond. Production remains high around the world, as companies pump at full tilt to maximize revenues despite low prices.

Weekly inventory data from the U.S. Energy Information Administration showed an increase of 4.8 million barrels of crude oil stocks. Analysts polled by The Wall Street Journal expected the agency to report that crude-oil inventories fell 1.4 million barrels last week. The U.S. imported 8.3 million barrels a day of crude, the highest weekly level since September 2013. Imports have risen in recent months because the U.S. production has declined and the U.S. has more storage space available for crude oil than other regions.

"The U.S. market is actually vacuuming up part of the global supply-demand surplus," said Tim Evans, analyst at Citigroup Inc. Supplies of gasoline and distillates, including heating oil and diesel fuel, also rose. Total crude and refined-product commercial stockpiles climbed by 5 million barrels to 1.31 billion barrels, a record in EIA data going back to 1990.

Crude supplies usually fall at this time of year as refineries buy more crude to process into heating oil to meet indoor heating demand, but heating oil consumption has been low this year due to mild weather in the U.S.

Late Tuesday, congressional leaders agreed to lift the 40-year-old export ban as part of a broader spending and tax bill. The bill must still be passed and signed into law.

In the precious metals market, gold prices pared gains in aftermarket trading, after the Federal Reserve raised interest rates for the first time in more than nine years.

                TODAY'S HEADLINES:             

Fed Raises Interest Rate to 0.25%-to-0.50% Range

The Federal Reserve said it would raise its benchmark interest rate from near zero for the first time since December 2008—to a range between 0.25% to 0.50%—and emphasized it will likely lift it gradually thereafter in a test of the economy's capacity to stand on its own with less support from super easy monetary policy.

FedEx Profit Tops Expectations

FedEx said profit rose 4.2% in its latest quarter, with adjusted profit topping Wall Street's expectations, and the company reaffirmed its full-year earnings guidance.

AIG Ramps Up Stock Buyback Plan by $3 Billion

American International Group, under pressure from activists investors, said that it raised its stock buyback authorization by $3 billion.

Oracle's Profits Fall on Stronger Dollar

Oracle said its earnings fell 12% in the latest quarter, as the hit from a strong U.S. dollar offset continued growth in its cloud business.

GE Sets Financial Targets for 2016

General Electric told investors it expects per-share operating earnings of $1.45 to $1.55 in 2016 and organic revenue growth of 2% to 4% amid sluggish conditions in the global economy.

Canadian Pacific Railway Boosts Offer for Norfolk Southern

Canadian Pacific Railway boosted its hostile proposal for Norfolk Southern, adding a contingent-value right that it said would provide up to $3.4 billion in additional value for its target's shareholders.

U.S. Housing Starts Surge 10.5% in November

Home-building in the U.S. rose broadly in November, the latest sign the housing market is gaining momentum despite the prospect of higher mortgage rates.

Valeant Slashes Earnings Guidance

Valeant slashed its 2015 outlook and issued downbeat guidance for next year, as the drugmaker deals with fallout from its relationship with specialty pharmacy Philidor.

Steven Spielberg's DreamWorks Relaunches as Amblin Partners

The independent studio is relaunching as Amblin Partners and has signed a multiyear distribution deal with Comcast Corp.'s Universal Pictures.

Fitch Downgrades Brazil to Junk

Fitch Ratings cut Brazil's sovereign credit rating for the second time this year, citing the country's ballooning budget deficit, political turmoil and a deeper-than-expected recession.

                RECENT DJ EXCLUSIVES:                                                                    

Hilton to Spin Off Hotel Properties Into Real-Estate Investment Trust

Whirlpool Accuses LG and Samsung of Dumping

Fed Move Puts Latin American Central Banks to Test

As Rates Finally Rise, Pent-Up Risks Emerge

Bank of Zhengzhou Raises $656 Million in Hong Kong IPO

                TODAY'S CALENDAR:             

(All times GMT,  followed by country and event)

2145  NZ  Q3 GDP 

2350  JPN  Nov Provisional Trade Statistics for the Month 

0001  UK  Nov UK monthly automotive manufacturing figures 

0030  SIN  Nov Merchandise Trade, incl non-oil domestic exports 

0030  AUS  Dec RBA Bulletin 

0030  AUS  Nov International Merchandise Imports 

0030  AUS  Nov Foreign Exchange Transactions and Holdings of Official Reserve Assets 

0630  INA  Dec Bank Indonesia Board of Governors meeting & decision

0800  PHI  Philippine Monetary Policy meeting and decision  

0830  HK  Nov Unemployment 

0830  HK  Oct External Merchandise Trade: Volume & Price Statistics

0830  HK  Nov  Underemployment 

0900  ITA  Oct Foreign Trade EU 

0900  EU  ECB Economic Bulletin 

0900  GER  Dec Ifo Business Climate Index 

0930  UK  Nov UK monthly retail sales figures 

0930  UK  Nov CML mortgage lending figures 

1000  EU  Q3 Labour Cost Index 

1000  EU  Oct Construction output 

1100  UK  Dec CBI Monthly Industrial Trends Survey 

1300  US  Alan Greenspan speaks on the global drop in productivity growth

1330  US  12/12 Unemployment Insurance Weekly Claims Report - Initial Claims

1330  US  U.S. Weekly Export Sales 

1330  US  Q3 International Transactions 

1330  US  Dec Philadelphia Fed Business Outlook Survey 

1330  CAN  Oct Employment Insurance 

1445  US  Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index 

1500  US  Nov Leading Indicators 

1500  EU  EU Summit 

1530  US  12/11 EIA Weekly Natural Gas Storage Report 

2000  US  U.N. Security Council Summit of Finance Ministers meeting on terrorist financing 

2130  US  Foreign Central Bank Holdings 

2130  US  Federal Discount Window Borrowings 

2130  US  Money Stock Measures 
   COfed : Federal Reserve Board   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | m11 : Equity Markets | e12 : Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | china : China | asiaz : Asia | eurz : Europe | uk : United Kingdom | apacz : Asia Pacific | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | eecz : European Union Countries | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe   IPDSYND | WSJ-PRO-WSJ.com | WSJ.com | Markets Main   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument WSJO000020151216ebcg0060q  

 Winners and Losers When the Fed Raises Rates
WSJ Blogs, 15:07, 16 December 2015, 2156 words, (English)
The Federal Reserve may be about to knock over the first domino.
Many Fedwatchers are convinced the central bank is just hours away from announcing the first increase to its benchmark federal-funds rate in nearly a decade. If that happens, ...
Document WCWSJB0020151216ebcg00105



 SEEconomy   HDNew York Fed Repo Program Takes $105 Billion of Bids; Repo bids came from 49 financial counterparties   BYBy Katy Burne      WC255 words   PD17 December 2015   ET20:26   SNThe Wall Street Journal Online   SCWSJO   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
   LPThe Federal Reserve Bank of New York on Thursday took in $105 billion from money-market funds and other lenders under a tool it is using to control its benchmark interest rate, a day after the U.S. central bank said it was raising its target for the rate.

The amount of bids accepted was a fraction of the $2 trillion limit that the Fed placed Wednesday on the reverse repurchase program. The Fed lifted the limit from $300 billion to bolster its rate-raising efforts as it attempts to prevent slippage.
   TDThe takeup rate in the facility—which allows money-markets funds, banks and government agencies to earn 0.25% interest in a program in which the Fed borrows money overnight in exchange for Treasurys owned by the central bank—is the latest sign of healthy demand for high-quality government securities.

The U.S. Treasury Department has been ramping up issuance of short-term securities known as “bills" since October, but the amount of available supply is still dwarfed by demand, keeping prices high and yields low.

The total bids accepted, announced at 1:15 p.m. EST by the New York Fed, came from 49 participants.

The higher amount was designed to ensure the Fed has enough ammunition to soak up remaining cash swilling around money markets and help rates rise.

Write to Katy Burne at katy.burne@wsj.com
   COfrbny : Federal Reserve Bank of New York | usdtr : United States Department of the Treasury   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | m131 : Money Markets | ecat : Economic News | e12 : Monetary Policy | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | usny : New York State | namz : North America | use : Northeast U.S.   IPDPRO | SYND | WSJ-PRO-CB | WSJPRO | Central Banks   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument WSJO000020151217ebch007ep  



 SEEconomy   HDFed’s Williams Says Rate Move Possible at Any Meeting in 2016; San Francisco Fed leader tells Reuters ‘every meeting will truly be live in terms of adjusting policy’   BYBy WSJ Staff      WC318 words   PD18 December 2015   ET23:18   SNThe Wall Street Journal Online   SCWSJO   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
   LPThe Federal Reserve could move on interest rates at any policy meeting in 2016, including those that aren't followed by a news conference with Chairwoman Janet Yellen, San Francisco Fed President John Williams told Reuters.

Mr. Williams said that “every meeting will truly be live in terms of adjusting policy one way or the other," Reuters reported Friday.
   TDThe Fed on Wednesday said it would raise its benchmark federal-funds \b interest rate\b0  from near zero to between 0.25% and 0.5%, an announcement that was followed by a news conference with Ms. Yellen. It was the Fed's first rate increase in nearly a decade.

“There was value to having the first move at a press conference meeting," Mr. Williams told Reuters, “but in the future I don't think that's as much of an issue."

The next meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee, which sets interest rates, is scheduled for Jan. 27-28, without a news conference.

Policy makers' median projection, released Wednesday, shows the fed-funds rate rising to 1.375% at the end of 2016, which would suggest four quarter-percentage-point rate increases next year. Mr. Williams said his view is in line with that projection, Reuters reported.

The San Francisco Fed leader also said he expects the central bank's monetary policy to help push the unemployment rate down to around 4.5% by the end of 2016, from 5% currently.

“We are going to run a higher-pressure economy for a while," he said.

Mr. Williams said inflation is persistently low partly because of declining energy prices and a strong dollar, but that it should be moving toward the Fed's 2% target by 2017.
   COfrbsf : Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco | fed : Federal Reserve Board   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | e12 : Monetary Policy   REsfra : San Francisco | usa : United States | namz : North America | usca : California | usw : Western U.S.   IPDPRO | SYND | WSJ-PRO-CB | Janet Yellen | John Williams | WSJPRO | Central Banks   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument WSJO000020151218ebci0093v  



 HDNikkei up 1.8% After Fed Decision -- Market Talk   WC1,629 words   PD17 December 2015   ET01:20   SNDow Jones Institutional News   SCDJDN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright © 2015, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.   
   LP0020 GMT [Dow Jones] Tokyo stocks opening sharply higher with the benchmark Nikkei up 1.8% at 19400.73, given U.S. stocks rally after the Fed decision to raise rates. Exporters up after the USD/JPY steady gain now at 122.45; Toyota (7203.TO) up 1.7% at Y7,746; Honda (7267.TO) up 1.6% at Y4,010; Canon (7751.TO) up 1.2% at Y3,748. Sharp (6753.TO) up 1.6% at Y124 after the company reportedly is in talks to sell its stake in a Japan LCD panel production joint venture to its JV partner Taiwan's Hon Hai Precision. (hiroyuki.kachi@wsj.com) 


 
Editor: KLH 
 
   TD0015 GMT [Dow Jones] The rate hike may have been expected, but there were several surprises in the Federal Reserve's dot plot, which shows where Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) members see the likely path of interest rates headed. The median dot for 2016 signals a more dovish Fed next year than expected, writes Richard Clarida, global strategic advisor at PIMCO. "This dot implies up to four hikes next year," he says. "The FOMC values this optionality and did not want to trade it away." Fed policymakers previously thought interest rates would return to their old average of 4.25%, but now expect around 3.5% longer term. Clarida expects that could drift lower still. Meanwhile, one policymaker at the September meeting had expected the U.S. to follow the European Central Bank in pursuing a negative interest rate policy next year--not so this month.(gregor.hunter@wsj.com; @gregorhunter) 


 
Editor: KLH 
 

0012 GMT [Dow Jones] Singapore's shares may rise Thursday after the U.S. Federal Reserve raises rates after seven years from near zero. U.S. markets cheer the news as it underscores confidence that the U.S. economic growth is set to gain traction. However, challenges remain, and the Fed emphasises that it will likely lift it gradually thereafter in a test of the economy's capacity to stand on its own with less support from near-zero interest rates. Singapore's benchmark FTSE Straits Times Index closed 25.4 points, or 0.9%, higher at 2840.92 on Wednesday and the markets in Asia are likely to take cues from the U.S. market on Thursday. Trading starts at 0100 GMT in Singapore.(gaurav.raghuvanshi@wsj.com) 


 
Editor: KLH 
 

0007 GMT [Dow Jones] The U.S. dollar got a lift against the majors overnight after the U.S. Federal Reserve FOMC meeting affirmed the likelihood of gradual rate increases next year due to the possibility that inflation will rise. The greenback is likely to drift higher against Asian currencies as well Thursday, particularly against the high-yield currencies such as the Indonesia rupiah and the Malaysia ringgit because the higher cost of borrowing U.S. dollars for carry-trade investors might trigger capitulation. The Fed's forecast suggests its benchmark interest rate could rise by a cumulative 1.0 percentage point within a year. The post-FOMC statement was read as being slightly hawkish, with an upbeat outlook for the U.S. economy, which hence rallied stocks on Wall Street. Overall, the tone of the Fed is likely positive for stocks and the dollar in Asia. (ewen.chew@wsj.com) 


 
Editor: KLH 
 

2349 GMT [Dow Jones] Retail traders jumped into action after the Federal Reserve's rate-increase announcement earlier Wednesday. After a slow morning--at 10 a.m. EST Scottrade Inc.'s trading levels were 15% lower than the same time on Tuesday--retail traders stepped up their activity by market close. The discount brokerage's total trading volume for the day represented a 10.5% increase compared with Tuesday. (dan.huang@wsj.com; @huangplan)

2333 GMT [Dow Jones] Arthur Lau, head of Asian-Pacific equities at BNP Paribas Investment Partners, says he's picked Australian investment bank Macquarie Group (MQG.AU) as a stock to play on the Federal Reserve's move Wednesday to raise short-term interest rates. The stock, which Lau says he added recently to his portfolio, has surged 42% over the past year, compared with a 1.3% loss for the broader Australian market in the same period. Like many banks in the region, Macquarie should benefit from the widening of loan spreads that comes with higher U.S. rates. He Lau adds that the bank's revenue relies heavily on the U.S. market, so it should get a boost from the strengthening of the U.S. economy and the rise of the dollar, which go in hand with the Fed's hike. Meanwhile, Lau says he's been cutting back on shares of Hong Kong property firms and other businesses laden with U.S. dollar debt, ever since the Fed announced it would taper off its easing program in 2013.(chao.deng@wsj.com) 


 
Editor: KLH 
 

2333 GMT [Dow Jones] For investors in Asia, the rise of U.S. interest rates means cutting back on firms with high U.S.-dollar denominated debt, while increasing exposure to financials that can benefit from a widening of loan spreads. Credit Suisse picks Taiwanese insurers China Life Insurance Co. (2823.TW) and Shin Kong Financial (2888.TW), Hong Kong's Hang Seng Bank (0011.HK) and Industrial Bank of Korea (024110.SE) as winners. Meanwhile, firms with high dollar borrowings are likely to suffer, says CS: Malaysian oil and gas firm Bumi Armada (5210.KU), Indian metals and mining firms Hindalco (500440.BY) and Tata Steel (500470.BY), Indian oil and gas company Reliance Industries Ltd. (500325.BY), and Chinese property firm Great Eagle Holdings (0041.HK). (chao.deng@wsj.com)

2329 GMT [Dow Jones] Tokyo stocks are likely to gain strongly, given U.S. stocks' rally overnight, says Tsutomu Yamada, market analyst at kabu.com Securities. "We saw the last big event this year has ended safely," says Yamada, who tips the benchmark Nikkei to move in a 19300-19500 range today. The DJIA rose 224.18 points after the Fed decision to raise short-term interest rates for the first time in nine years. Nikkei 225 March futures ended Wednesday's Chicago trading at 19320, compared with an earlier close in Osaka at 19090. In the cash market, Nikkei was 2.6% higher at 19049.91 Wednesday. (hiroyuki.kachi@wsj.com) 


 
Editor: KLH 
 

2314 GMT -- The USD/JPY will likely remain firm on improvement in risk sentiment that may give a boost to Asian stocks, positioning the pair (now at 122.38) to move in a 121.60-122.60 range during Asia trade, says Osao Iizuka, head of FX trading at Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank. "The market reaction (to the Fed's decision) has been fairly calmer than we expected. Many people assumed the dollar would sell but we don't see it," says Iizuka. But the pair's upside will be limited as investors await the BOJ policy setting meeting Thursday and Friday, he says. The EUR/USD is tipped in a 1.0850-1.0950 range and is now at 1.0877. (hiroyuki.kachi@wsj.com)

18:12 ET - The Fed's rate hike might make it harder for companies to fund the megamergers that have defined the past few years, but that doesn't mean deal making will grind to a halt. Level 3 (LVLT) CFO Sunit Patel says higher interest rates could make wireless and fixed-line companies take a harder look at their returns to shareholders. "In a rising interest rate environment, companies have to be sharper about what they're focused on strategically," he says, which could force some carriers to put more assets on the block, a potential opportunity for LVLT. The business-focused telecom company has closed a few big deals during this era of easy money, including a $5.7B takeover of TW Telecom last year. LVLT closed 3.2% higher at $52.67. (andrew.fitzgerald@wsj.com; @drewfitzgerald)

2309 GMT - Stress-testing shows Prairie Mining's (PDZ.AU) Lublin coal project in Poland will struggle without a significant rebound in prices of the fuel, says Macquarie. It believes Lublin needs a benchmark coal price of at least US$80/ton. "We note that on our forecasts, the internal rate of return of the Lublin project is 0%," Macquarie says. "We believe an IRR of 15-20% would need to be demonstrated in order for Prairie Mining to secure the US$700 million in funding to develop the project." The broker rates Prairie Mining at underperform, but lifts its price target by 20% to A$0.06/share to reflect the value of its small shareholder in Canada-listed B2Gold (BTO.T). PDZ last traded at A$0.14. (david.winning@wsj.com; @dwinningWSJ)

18:02 ET - Although the U.S. Federal Reserve bank said Wednesday it would increase interest rates only gradually in the future, it might begin to lift rates more aggressively late next year--for example, if the U.S. economy recovers more quickly than expected. Such a "hawkish" shift could trigger a huge selloff in global corporate bonds, says Steen Jakobsen, chief economist at Denmark-based Saxo Bank. He expects turmoil to spread among banks and brokers, which in recent years have cut down their balance sheets allotted to bond trading and market making. Jakobson's gloomy scenario: "The entire buy-side flee into a panic selling one-way street." The Fed raised its benchmark interest rate by 25 basis points from near zero Wednesday. (vera.sprothen@wsj.com; Twitter: @verasydney)

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

December 16, 2015 19:20 ET (00:20 GMT)
   COhonhai : Hon Hai Precision Industry Company Limited | fed : Federal Reserve Board   INi35101 : Passenger Cars | i351 : Motor Vehicles | iaut : Automotive | i3302 : Computers/Consumer Electronics | ielec : Consumer Electronics | itech : Technology   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | c1521 : Analysts' Comments/Recommendations | m11 : Equity Markets | namt : All Market Talk | ndjmt : Dow Jones Market Talk | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | nfiac : Fixed Income Asset Class News | nfxacb : Forex Asset Class Basic News | nfxacp : Forex Asset Class Premium News | nsmcm : Stock Market Commentary | c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Shareholdings | c184 : Joint Ventures | c15 : Financial Performance | c152 : Earnings Projections | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e12 : Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter   REusa : United States | jap : Japan | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument DJDN000020151217ebch0000e  

 Fed Rate Hike May Give Companies Breathing Room on Pensions
CFO Report, 21:15, 16 December 2015, 516 words, (English)
Non-financial institutions may not see immediate changes from the Federal Reserve's move to raise interest rates Wednesday, but it will provide companies with pension obligations a little breathing room.
Document WCCFO00020151216ebcg000b5

 The Morning Ledger: We Have Rate Liftoff—Now for the Fallout
CFO Report, 12:35, 17 December 2015, 2145 words, (English)
Get the free Morning Ledger emailed to you each weekday morning by clicking here: http://on.wsj.com/TheMorningLedgerSignup.
Good morning. After an unprecedented seven years of near-zero interest rates, we're finally going to see whether the ...
Document WCCFO00020151217ebch00001



 SEMarkets   HDDollar Edges Higher as Fed Raises U.S. Rates; Fed says it expects ‘gradual’ tightening path   BYBy James Ramage      WC630 words   PD16 December 2015   ET23:02   SNThe Wall Street Journal Online   SCWSJO   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
   LPThe dollar advanced against the euro and the yen after the Federal Reserve raised interest rates for the first time in nearly a decade.

The statement from the last Federal Open Market Committee meeting this year also showed officials lowered estimates for future interest-rate increases from those in September, but not as much as some predicted, analysts said, boosting the U.S. currency.
   TDThe dollar increased 0.2% against the common currency, as one euro bought $1.0908 in late-afternoon trade, on pace for its lowest close against the buck in a week. The dollar increased 0.5% versus the yen to ¥122.26, heading for its highest close since Dec. 8. The Wall Street Journal Dollar Index, which measure's the dollar's performance against a basket of 16 widely traded currencies, rose 0.2% to 90.10.

“This was mildly positive for the dollar," said Brad Bechtel, managing director of currency sales and trading at Jefferies LLC.

The Fed decided to increase its target for the fed-funds rate to a range of 0.25% to 0.50% from near zero, where it has been held since December 2008. The Fed raised U.S. interest rates while other central banks are easing policy, often through measures that are weakening their currencies.

Fed officials now expect their benchmark rate to increase to 1.375% by the end of 2016, to 2.375% in two years and 3.25% by the end of 2018. Those calculations translate into four quarter-percentage-point interest rate increases in 2016, four the next and three or four the following.

The Fed language on the pace of monetary tightening sets the tone for the dollar, investors have said. The more rate increases the Fed plans over the course of 2016, the higher the probability for dollar gains, while slower tightening next year would likely spell a weaker dollar.

Higher U.S. rates would make the dollar more attractive as they boost returns on assets denominated in greenbacks

Trading desks at Jefferies, Société Générale and BNP Paribas met the historic news with quiet relief, but generally little excitement, as the rate increase was widely expected, traders said. Light order flow followed.

The Fed has said interest-rate decisions depend on economic data, and that it likely would raise borrowing costs gradually. Rising concerns about global growth, the U.S. junk-bond-market meltdown, falling commodity prices and struggling emerging economies could weigh on U.S. growth and keep the Fed cautious on interest rates over the coming weeks and months.

Broader factors should remain dollar-positive for 2016, said Paresh Upadhyaya, portfolio manager and director of currency strategy at Pioneer Investments. With a data-dependent Fed, the market could re-evaluate its estimate for the pace of tightening on upside surprises in U.S. economic data.

“Monetary-policy divergence and interest-rate differentials will be the main drivers behind the dollar," Mr. Upadhyaya said.

State Street Global Advisors, which manages $2.2 trillion in assets and has bets for the dollar to strengthen against the euro, the Australian dollar and the yen, said easing signals from the European Central Bank and the Bank of Japan will likely spark further U.S. dollar appreciation.

“Part of the dollar's strength from here hinges on how the global economy does and whether the ECB or the BOJ do more," said Cathy Powers, global head of rates and sector strategy at State Street. “At this point, the Fed getting off of zero and reiterating the gradual pace of tightening puts the ball back in their court."

Write to James Ramage at james.ramage@wsj.com
   COjefa : Jefferies Group LLC | fed : Federal Reserve Board | leuc : Leucadia National Corp   INiinv : Investing/Securities | ifinal : Financial Services | i831 : Financial Investments   NSm132 : Foreign Exchange News | e1202 : Interest Rates | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | e12 : Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPDSYND | WSJ-PRO-WSJ.com | Brad Bechtel | Paresh Upadhyaya | Cathy Powers | WSJ.com | Foreign Exchange   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument WSJO000020151216ebcg002mh  



 HDPOLL-Economists see next Fed rate increase in first quarter of 2016   WC595 words   PD16 December 2015   ET22:46   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2015 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   
   LP(Updates with details, additional responses)

By David Gaffen
   TDDec 16 (Reuters) - Wall Street's top banks expect the Federal Reserve to next raise U.S. interest rates in the first quarter of next year, according to a Reuters poll conducted on Wednesday, after the Fed raised rates for the first time in more than nine years.

A total of 13 of 21 primary dealers, brokerages that deal directly with the Federal Reserve, say the Fed will next raise rates in the first quarter, after it raised the range of its benchmark interest rate by a quarter of a percentage point to between 0.25 percent and 0.50 percent on Wednesday.

The remaining eight dealers said the Fed will raise rates by the second quarter.

It was the first rate increase by the Fed since 2006.

The Fed's projections, released with its statement, show it still anticipates a federal funds rate of 1.4 percent by the end of 2016, which implies four interest rate increases in 2016, or one per quarter. When Reuters last polled primary dealers, the median forecast was for a fed funds rate of 1.125 percent at the end of that year.

Some had expected the Fed to scale back its forecast for the pace of its interest-rate hikes, but the Fed's expected path still implies a more gradual tightening cycle than previous efforts. However, with interest rates near zero, economic growth tepid, and the Fed having undertaken unprecedented stimulus efforts due to the 2008-2009 financial crisis, this cycle of rate hikes looks to be different.

In its statement, the Fed noted international developments and financial markets are among the factors it is monitoring before taking further action.

The Fed's rate hike was the first in nearly a decade, and the first move in policy since it lowered rates to the zero-bound range during the financial crisis.

Steady gains in the labor market have taken the U.S. unemployment rate down to 5 percent. Still, the outlook for inflation is low. In its most recent projections, the Fed lowered its expectation for 2016 core inflation growth to 1.6 percent, down from its previous 1.7 percent expectation.

"As anticipated, the FOMC adjusted its language on inflation, putting actual outcomes on the same level as expected progress. This would slow the pace of rate hikes if inflation keeps surprising to the downside. But the opposite is also true; faster inflation might warrant a faster pace of hikes," wrote economists at Credit Suisse, after the meeting.

The Fed is expected to maintain the fed funds rate through a number of tools, most importantly the interest rate on excess reserves, or IOER, the payment to banks for the $2.5 trillion or so reserves they currently hold at the Fed. That rate represents the upper end of the fed funds range, at 0.5 percent.

The Fed will also use the overnight reverse repurchase program to drain reserves. That RRP rate represents the floor of the range; it was raised to 0.25 percent.

Since the beginning of the Fed's efforts to provide extraordinary monetary stimulus, the central bank has ballooned its balance sheet to approximately $4.5 trillion in various types of securities, from about $870 billion in mid-2007. (Reporting by David Gaffen, Tariro Mzezawa, Sam Forgione, Karen Brettell, Gertrude Chavez, Richard Leong and Saqib Ahmed; writing by David Gaffen; Editing by Chizu Nomiyama)
   RFReleased: 2015-12-19T21:46:24.000Z   COfed : Federal Reserve Board   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCSERVICE:C | SERVICE:D | SERVICE:E | SERVICE:M | SERVICE:O | SERVICE:U | SERVICE:MTL | SERVICE:GRO | SERVICE:SOF | SERVICE:OIL | SERVICE:MNI | SERVICE:NAT | SERVICE:RAST | SERVICE:ABX | SERVICE:BNX | SERVICE:FUN | LANG:en | f | MMT | INT | PLCY | JOB | US | MPLT | CEN | WASH | FED | GVD | INFL | DBT | MCE | BACT | AMERS | ECI | GEN | POL | ECO | USA | PIA | OVR | OEC   IPDBusiness | Economy | Politics | US | Reuters Poll | Polls | USA-FED/POLL (UPDATE 1) | USA | FED | POLL (UPDATE 1)   PUBThomson Reuters (Markets) LLC   ANDocument LBA0000020151216ebcg00xpy  



 HDUS Corporate Bond Chatter: Oil Slide Overshadows Fed Rate Hike   WC1,097 words   PD17 December 2015   ET19:15   SNMarket News International   SCMARNEW   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2015. Market News International, Inc.   
   TD--Rate Increase Unlikely to Pose Threat to Corporates Until At Least 2017
--IG, HY Energy Sector Spreads Drag Cash Indexes Lower
--CDX Signals Credit Risk-Off Sentiment 

By Steven Levine

     NEW YORK (MNI) - The investment-grade corporate bond primary market
continued to collect cobwebs Thursday, while market participants digested the
Federal Reserve's U.S. interest rate increase amid a further fall in oil prices.

     Both investment-grade and high yield energy sector spreads widened for
another day, primarily in response to another leg lower in the cost of crude. 

     Some analysts highlighted the ongoing deterioration in
commodities-sensitive corporate spreads, overshadowing the Fed's policy decision
Wednesday. Although the Fed's rate hike is likely to take a toll on highly
leveraged corporates, any negative effects may not be seen until at least 2017.

     "The interest rate increase will not affect most US companies until 2017-18
when they begin to refinance a significant balance of debt maturities coming due
in 2019-20," according to Moody's Investors Service.

     The ratings agency noted that when the first wave of refinancing starts,
interest rates will still "likely hover near historic lows," and credit should
"remain affordable for most US companies and give them time to bolster their
credit profiles by increasing cash flow." 

     "Investors will become more risk-averse as interest rates rise," said
Moody's analyst Bill Wolfe. "Credit spreads began widening in anticipation of
the interest rate hike, but this will continue to mostly affect the weakest
companies in the weakest sectors, which will be the most vulnerable as market
sentiment becomes more cautious," he added.

     There was a generally muted reaction in the U.S. credit market Wednesday to
the Federal Open Market Committee's decision to lift the target range for the
fed funds rate by 25 basis points to 0.25% to 0.50%, the first rate increase in
more than nine years. 

     The Fed's dovish announcement and press conference by Fed Chair Janet
Yellen provided the credit markets with a layer of calm as U.S. Treasuries
traded in a narrow range. 

     In the Thursday afternoon trading session, the yield on the 10-year U.S.
Treasury note hit an early morning low of 2.232% from an overnight high of
2.285%, according to one broker screen.

     While market players focus on the pace of subsequent rate hikes in 2016,
falling costs of crude oil and and other global commodities continue to hamper
both investment-grade and high yield corporate spreads.

     Overall, however, corporate cash indices improved on the day Thursday,
despite the drag from the energy sector, which suggested a respite from recent
contagion.

     The investment-grade corporate bond cash index was last 1.2 bps tighter on
the day at 170.8 bps, with the energy sector wider by almost 2.5 bps to just
south of 300.0 bps. The high yield corporate bond cash index was last improved
by nearly 1.0 bp on the day to 728.1 bps, with the energy sector wider by 8.2
bps to 1,325.9 bps. 

     Actively traded high yield energy-related bonds bled losses of around 2.250
to 8.750 on the day Thursday, with some notes suffering as much as 15.25 on the
week and 22.00 on the month, according to MarketAxess.

     Oasis Petroleum, Inc.'s 6.500% debt due November 2021 wee last down 9.000
on the day to 63.000, a loss of 14.250 on the week and off 22.000 on the month;
and EP Energy LLC's 9.375% noted due May 2020 were last down 3.230 on the day, a
loss of 8.500 on week and off 18.500 month-to-date.

     High yield trading flows were last around $5.0 billion, with
investment-grade volume at an estimated $9.0 billion, according to MarketAxess.

     West Texas Intermediate January crude oil futures were last down around
$0.79 to $34.73 a barrel after trading in a $34.63 to $35.84 range.

     Corporate credit default swaps appeared to signal a stronger bout of risk
aversion than the cash market. 

     The North American index for investment-grade CDS, the IG.25, was last
around 2.800 bps wider on the day to 92.112 bps from its morning tight of 87.500
bps. The high yield corporate credit index, the HY.25, was last trading at
around 100.160, a loss of about 0.590 on the day.

     Elsewhere, the Fed's hike in interest rates may have a more pronounced
effect on debt-burdened corporates compared to the consumer asset-backed
securities market. 

     Citigroup analysts Mary Kane and Eugene Belostotsky noted that the increase
in corporate leverage to date is a "stark contrast to the ABS market, where
structures remain strong." 

     They said that the Fed's rate hike "will put greater pressure on more
levered corporates, while much of the ABS market finances with fixed-rate debt."

     ABS spreads, however, "should remain wide to historical levels for the
foreseeable future, given persistently narrow differentials between swap and
Treasury yields," noted Kane and Belostotsky. The three-year swaps spreads
turned negative following the Fed announcement and swap curve inversion
persists, they observed. 

     "Nonetheless, policy makers remain unanimous in their assessment that US
households are in good shape and financial conditions are supportive of economic
growth," Citi added.

     In the agency bond market Thursday, Fannie Mae passed on issuing a
Benchmark Note. The agency last priced $3.0 billion of 5-year Benchmark Notes on
its previous calendar slot November 13 at 19.5 bps more than comparable U.S.
Treasuries. Those notes were last bid 2.0 bps tighter than that level, according
to one broker screen.

     Fannie Mae is next scheduled to announce its Benchmark Note issuance
decision December 23.

     Market participants will also be closely eyeing ongoing geopolitical
uncertainties, including China's economy, Greece's debt situation, migration and
refugee challenges in the EU, unrest in the Middle East and North Africa and the
state of Ukraine's ceasefire with Russian separatists.

     --

     -- Visit the US$ Credit Supply Pipeline for a full list of bond offerings,
and be sure to catch MNI's U.S. Risk-O-Meter for a weekly recap of the U.S.
credit market - and a look at the week ahead.

--MNI New York Bureau; tel: +1 212-669-6439; email: steven.levine@mni-news.com

[TOPICS: M$U$$$,M$$CO$,M$$FI$,MN$FI$]
   COfed : Federal Reserve Board   NSc172 : Corporate Debt Instruments | mswap : Swaps | e1202 : Interest Rates | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m143 : Energy Markets | mntdbt : National Government Debt/Bond Markets | c17 : Corporate Funding | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e12 : Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m14 : Commodity Markets | m15 : Derivative Securities | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBDeutsche Boerse AG   ANDocument MARNEW0020151217ebch000fk  



 HDGold Up Slightly Ahead of U.S.  Interest Rate  Decision   BYBy Ese Erheriene      WC341 words   PD16 December 2015   ET12:50   SNDow Jones Institutional News   SCDJDN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright © 2015, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.   
   LPLONDON--Gold prices were slightly higher on the London spot market on Wednesday, as traders remained cautious amid expectations that the Federal Reserve would announce a U.S. interest rate increase later in the day.

Spot gold was up 0.18% at $1,063.50 a troy ounce in morning European trade, sticking within a narrow $6 range.
   TDMetals have been falling since the peak of the commodities boom in 2011, with investors reacting to oversupply issues and falling demand growth in key buyers such as China.

However, since the middle of the year, fluctuations in U.S. interest rate expectations have dominated trade in precious metals.

"Gold ... [is trading] sideways ahead of the Fed rise," said SP Angel, a brokerage, in a note.

The two-day Federal Open Market Committee meeting concludes later on Wednesday, and the market is convinced the Fed will raise U.S. interest rates.

Most market participants expect an increase to boost the U.S. dollar, causing metals to trade even lower--a gaining greenback makes them more expensive to buy for other currency-holders.

For others in the market, however, the first rate rise by the U.S. central bank in almost a decade may be a nonevent for gold.

"The gold market has already priced in an interest-rate hike, so gold should no longer be affected too much if this does happen," said Commerzbank AG in a note.

According to the bank, movement in gold will be more pronounced should rates unexpectedly remain unchanged. Market participants will then be more concerned with the pace of subsequent rate rises in 2016.

Among the other precious metals, spot silver was up 0.6% at $13.833 an ounce and spot platinum was up 1.7% at $864.72 an ounce, while palladium was flat at $565.88 an ounce.

Write to Ese Erheriene at ese.erheriene@wsj.com

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

December 16, 2015 06:50 ET (11:50 GMT)
   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | mpcsmt : Precious Metals Markets | m1421 : Gold Markets | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | ncmac : Commodities Asset Class News | nenac : Energy Asset Class News | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | nfiac : Fixed Income Asset Class News | nfxacb : Forex Asset Class Basic News | nfxacp : Forex Asset Class Premium News | e12 : Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | m14 : Commodity Markets | m142 : Metals Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | eurz : Europe | use : Northeast U.S. | namz : North America   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument DJDN000020151216ebcg0017j  



 SEMARKETS & INVESTING   HDUS and European stocks rebound during countdown to Fed lift-off; Global overview   BYBy Dave Shellock      WC833 words   PD16 December 2015   SNFinancial Times   SCFTFT   EDUSA Ed1   PG23   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All rights reserved. Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the web.   
   LPBrent bounces 1.7% and junk bond sell-off halts with further rise in Treasury yields and data supporting dollar

Rallying oil prices and easing concerns about the high-yield credit market helped European and US stocks push higher as participants awaited today's interest rate decision from the Federal Reserve.
   TDThe dollar and US Treasury yields rose as the futures market moved to price in a 79 per cent probability of the US central bank increasing official borrowing costs for the first time in nearly a decade.

US inflation data appeared to increase the likelihood of such of a scenario, analysts said.

But the main focus remained on oil as Brent, the international crude benchmark, bounced 1.7 per cent to $38.58 a barrel - a day after persistent worries about a supply glut drove it to a fresh seven-year low of $36.33. US West Texas Intermediate rose 2.2 per cent to $37.12.

Michael Stanes, investment director at Heartwood Investment Management, said there should be an improvement in the oil supply/demand balance through 2016, although oversupply would persist in the short term.

"Market forecasts predict that oil will actually be in deficit by early to mid-2017," said Mr Stanes. "Demand, meanwhile, should gradually improve, particularly as we see signs of stabilisation in China's industrial sector.

"We would expect the oil price to trade around current levels with volatility in the near term, before moving modestly higher as next year progresses."

But analysts at Deutsche Bank highlighted that oil prices were trading 8 per cent below fair value, while gross short positions were near a record high.

"A short squeeze from similar levels in March saw oil prices rally over 30 per cent," they noted.

"Oil shorts are also in disconnect from falling dollar longs, likely driven by forecasts of warmer weather and disappointment over Opec inaction on supply."

Broad sentiment improved as a sharp sell-off in the energy-dominated US high-yield corporate bond market came to a halt.

The two biggest high-yield exchange traded funds - known by the tickers HYG and JNK - were up 1.5 per cent and 1 per cent on the day respectively, although both were still down more than 10 per cent this year.

"While outflows may continue in the short term, longer term the world is still faced with a tremendous income shortage, which will eventually push investors back into higher-yielding parts of the market," said Bill Eigen, fund manager of JPMorgan Income Opportunities.

"This is not 2008 and the global financial system is not on the verge of collapse. The froth that existed in the system back then is simply not here to continue fuelling selling pressure."

An apparent improvement in risk appetite yesterday gave a strong boost to European equities. The panEuropean Euro Stoxx 600 rallied 2.9 per cent after falling more than 6 per cent over the previous five sessions to its lowest since early October.

US stocks built on Monday's late rally, with the S&P 500 rising 1.2 per cent to 2,047 by midday in New York - although that still left the index about 0.5 per cent down from where it started the year.

In Tokyo, however, the Nikkei 225 Average fell 1.7 per cent to its lowest for more than seven weeks.

In currencies the dollar recovered from an early bout of weakness after US inflation data helped reinforce expectations for a Fed rate rise today.

The euro was down 0.7 per cent at $1.0915, having hit $1.1059, while the US currency was 0.5 per cent higher versus the yen at Y121.61. The dollar index, which measures the unit against a weighted basket of its peers, was up 0.6 per cent at 98.19, well within sight of a recent 12-year of 100.51.

Meanwhile the year-on-year pace of core consumer price inflation, which excludes food and energy, edged up from 1.9 per cent to 2 per cent in November. "The timing is simply impeccable," said Harm Bandholz, chief US economist at UniCredit.

"To be sure, this is 'only' the CPI ex-food & energy, and not the PCE deflator ex-food & energy, which is the Fed's preferred inflation gauge," he said. "Nevertheless, the message from the CPI must not and cannot simply be dismissed out of hand."

A further rise in Treasury yields supported the dollar. The 10-year yield was up 4 basis points at 2.27 per cent while that on the two-year was 1bp higher at 0.96 per cent.

The 10-year German Bund yield jumped 7bp to 0.63 per cent.

Gold paid little heed to the rally in the dollar and rose $3 to $1,065 an ounce ahead of the Fed's decision.
   COfed : Federal Reserve Board   INi81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | i814 : Banking | ifinal : Financial Services   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | ginved : Investment Advice/Investor Education | m11 : Equity Markets | e12 : Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpersf : Personal Finance | gpersi : Personal Investments | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCEN02 | EN | EN0208 | MN | MN02   IPDEconomic Indicators | Economic News | Interest Rates | Market News | Market Reports   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTFT000020151216ebcg00030  



 SEMARKETS - BACK SECTION   HDMoney funds applaud end of near-zero rates; Capital markets   BYBy Joe Rennison in New York      WC515 words   PD16 December 2015   SNFinancial Times   SCFTFT   EDUSA Ed1   PG24   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All rights reserved. Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the web.   
   LPRising yields on Treasury bills and other short-term debt securities mean good news for savers and money market funds as the era of near-zero returns draws to a close.

A widely expected shift in policy by the US Federal Reserve on Wednesday will formally end seven years of ultra-low returns for investors who maintain holdings of cash or own money market funds.
   TDProlonged low interest rates have stunted returns for money market mutual funds that invest in assets with a maturity of 12 months or less. The yield on Vanguard's prime money market fund, one of the largest available, doubled from 8 basis points in October to 16bp on Monday.

"It will be great news for money market funds," said Debbie Cunningham, chief investment officer at Federated Investors. "It means the return from our portfolio composition back to the end shareholders is improving and that hasn't happened since 2008."

The yield on three-month Treasury bills has doubled to 24bp over the past month, and other short-term interest rates are trading higher. The three-month London Interbank Offered Rate has risen to above 0.5 per cent, its highest level this year.

Short-term market rates are expected to continue rising once the central bank shifts its overnight Fed funds rate higher, with the market anticipating a new corridor set between 0.25 per cent and 0.5 per cent. Economists polled by the Financial Times this week expect the Fed will undertake two to four rate increases next year.

"Money market funds are absolutely ecstatic. For the first time in a decade they are going to be in a rate-rising environment," said Joseph Abate, a rates strategist at Barclays.

To cope with years of low returns, a number of money market funds have waived fees for investors. And an increase in interest rates is likely to be accompanied by a rise in fees.

Money market funds have also been reducing the maturity of their portfolios to take full advantage of higher rates as soon as the Federal Open Market Committee meeting concludes today. The weighted average maturity of prime institutional money market funds stood at 28 days last week from 32 days at the beginning of October, accoroding to Crane data.

"We have shortened our weighted average maturity over the last three to six months and more than likely we will lengthen it after the meeting depending on what the outcome is," added Ms Cunningham.

That has spurred a flow of cash into even shorter-dated, sometimes overnight investments, such as repurchase, or repo, agreements in which cash is exchanged for securities at a predetermined rate of interest, to be returned at a predetermined time.

Usually a flood of cash would push down the interest rate paid to investors in repo markets but it has actually been climbing.

BNY Mellon's tri-party repo rate rose to a high of 10bp points last week, from 5bp in November.
   COfed : Federal Reserve Board   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services   NSm131 : Money Markets | e1202 : Interest Rates | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | e12 : Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPCMN0301 | CN | CN05 | CN0501 | MN | MN03   IPDBonds | Company News | Corporate Finance | Debt | Market News | Markets   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTFT000020151216ebcg00033  



 SECOMMENT   HDAfter the rise, the risks to watch in the markets   BYBy Gillian Tett on Finance      WC810 words   PD18 December 2015   SNFinancial Times   SCFTFT   EDUSA Ed1   PG11   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All rights reserved. Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the web.   
   LPJanet Yellen has started weaning the American economy off its addiction to cheap money. But, given recent mixed economic data, economists are divided on the merits of the US Federal Reserve chair's decision to raise interest rates by 25 basis points .

For a different perspective on the challenge facing the Fed , it is worth looking at another corner of Washington: the Office of Financial Research . Just before the Fed announcement, the OFR published its first Financial Stability Report on the health of US finance. This went largely unnoticed.
   TDThat is a pity. The OFR, an offshoot of the Treasury, was set up after the 2008 crisis to assess financial risk - and its report reveals that several years of ultra-low rates have distinctly the distorted financial system. Ms Yellen will need extraordinary skill - and luck - to handle these distortions without sparking another crisis. The market reaction to the rate rise might seem impressively calm, but the real test for the wider financial system has barely begun.

In finance, there are at least three areas investors need to watch. The first is the fact that the ultra-loose policy has created credit bubbles that could now deflate. Because they have not emerged in the sectors that were at the centre of last decade's bubble, mortgages and banks, they have attracted less attention. But, as the Bank for International Settlements wrote earlier this month, debt has increased significantly since 2008 in emerging markets.

Also, the OFR observed this week: "In our assessment, credit risk in the US non-financial business sector is elevated and rising" - to a point where "higher base rates may create refinancing risks . . . and potentially precipitate a broader default cycle". Fortunately, banks seem fairly well placed to absorb losses. But an outbreak of defaults could spark contagion and market volatility, particularly since post-crisis regulations mean banks are less willing to be market makers in the non-business sector - prepared to buy or sell when investors want to trade - making it harder to trade the instruments in question.

A second area to watch is the state of investors' portfolios. In recent years, asset managers have tried to chase yield by buying longer-term assets with greater credit risk. This has raised the "duration" of bond portfolios - or their vulnerability to higher rates - to historic highs. Indeed, the OFR calculates that a mere 100bp rise in long-term US rates could generate unhedged losses of $214bn for US-based bond mutual funds and exchange traded funds. Once again, the system as a whole could probably absorb this; but it could also spark contagion, particularly since banks, too, have increased their duration profiles.

A third area of concern is that in recent years there have been stealthy shifts in the opaque world of money markets . Before the crisis many asset managers, companies and banks placed spare cash in money-market instruments. Recently, however, this money has flooded on to the balance sheet of banks and the Fed itself. This has made it harder for the Fed to control the price of money with its usual policy tools.

Another effect of these flows in the money markets might cause the Fed rise to spark upheaval. Zoltan Pozsar , an analyst at Credit Suisse, thinks hundreds of billions of dollars could soon move back from banks to money market funds - with potentially destabilising consequences that the Fed (and others) are scrambling to understand.

These three points are not the only challenges in markets. Nor do they mean the Fed is wrong to raise rates now. On the contrary, the distortions have arisen precisely because money has been artificially cheap for so long. A rate rise was long overdue - at least for the financial world.

Nevertheless, nobody can ignore the fact that Ms Yellen and her colleagues are now walking a slippery tightrope. In coming months, Fed officials will need to convince investors and borrowers that the cost of money is finally rising at a steady rate and that they should adjust portfolios accordingly. (Arguably this has still not entirely happened: the markets are pricing in just two interest rate rises next year but Fed officials appear to expect four.)

The Fed also needs to avoid a replay of 1994, when it raised rates by more than 200 basis points, causing the 10-year bond yield to surge more than 300 basis points in a year. If that happened again, it would spark the defaults and bond fund losses of which the OFR warns.

What Ms Yellen needs for the financial system is a "Goldilocks" policy, where market and Fed rates rise gradually, or at a speed that is "just right". Better hope she can deliver that. Until then, applause is premature.

gillian.tett@ft.com
   COfed : Federal Reserve Board   INi81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | i814 : Banking | ifinal : Financial Services   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | nedc : Commentaries/Opinions | e12 : Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCEN02 | EN | EN0208   IPDEconomic Indicators | Economic News | Interest Rates   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTFT000020151218ebci0001r  



 SEReal Estate   HDFed Rate Increase to Cool Hong Kong Property Prices; Prices in the world’s most expensive property market have been slowing since September   BYBy Dominique Fong      WC761 words   PD17 December 2015   ET05:30   SNThe Wall Street Journal Online   SCWSJO   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
   LPHONG KONG—Homeowners in this major Asian financial center are bracing for the impact of an increase in U.S. interest rates that could send a chill through the world's most expensive housing market.

Residential home prices have been on a bull run for over a decade in Hong Kong, fueled by surging demand from mainland Chinese buyers, low mortgage rates and tight housing supply. The former British colony is known as a haven of tiny shoebox-sized apartments sold for eye-popping prices.
   TDA flood of new housing units, announced by the government earlier this year to soothe property prices, is expected to push Hong Kong house prices down. Now, following the U.S. Federal Reserve's decision to raise interest rates from near zero, rising borrowing costs could be another catalyst to cool the market.

“The underlying issue is one of affordability being very, very stretched," said Paul Louie, a Barclays property analyst. Rising rates would be “one of the trigger points" for a slump in prices, he said.

Hong Kong is particularly sensitive to U.S. monetary policy because its currency is tied to the U.S. dollar. Lending rates in the city typically track U.S. benchmark rates. The Hong Kong Monetary Authority on Thursday raised its base interest-rate by 25 basis points following the Fed decision, with immediate effect.

Hong Kong boasts the world's priciest homes by square foot, according to real-estate brokerage CBRE. As of September, buyers were paying on average $1,416 for each square-foot of housing, compared with $1,025 in London and $842 in New York.

The Hong Kong government has periodically tried to cool a market that saw prices surge more than six times in the 12 years to August, said research firm Gavekal, for example by imposing higher stamp-duties on property purchases and tightening mortgage-lending rules in recent years, but tight supply has kept prices at record heights.

There are signs that prices have started to turn, however, even before the Federal Reserve's Wednesday decision. House prices jumped 23% in the year to early December compared with a year ago, hitting a peak in September, according to a Barclays analysis of local real-estate data tracked by Hong Kong brokerage Centaline. Prices have softened 6% in the three months since.

Analysts widely forecast a 5%-10% slump in luxury and mass home prices over the next year as new housing supply enters the market. About 22,000 new housing units will be completed each year over the next five years, pushing down home prices, according to brokerage Knight Frank. That compares with the 11,700 units on average a year over the last decade.

To be sure, some analysts attribute cooling home prices in Hong Kong more to slowing economic growth in Hong Kong and mainland China, as well as a Chinese government campaign against corruption and lavish spending that has caused Chinese buyers to pull back from the property market.

“The rise in the U.S. rate may not necessarily have a negative impact on the Hong Kong market," said Cusson Leung, head of Hong Kong and property research for J.P. Morgan. “We are at a juncture when we are negatively impacted by the China slowdown. At the same time, U.S. rates are also rising, so that's why potentially it may have a larger [effect] on the property market."

Norman Chan, Chief Executive of the Hong Kong Monetary Authority, said last week that rising Federal Reserve interest rates meant Hong Kong could face capital outflows, slower economic growth, and lower property prices. A steady decline in property prices, however, would offer relief to prospective home buyers and business owners who are struggling to pay rent, he added. A spokesperson declined further comment.

In Hong Kong, most mortgages are tied to the interbank lending rate that has remained low because of abundant liquidity in the financial system. Hong Kong banks have discretion whether to raise mortgage rates following a base interest-rate increase.

An increase in mortgage rates would strain the finances of Hong Kong homeowners servicing mortgages. The average Hong Kong family is sinking nearly half their income paying off the monthly mortgage bill, and an uptick in mortgage rates would increase the burden for existing homeowners, Mr. Leung said.

Write to Dominique Fong at Dominique.Fong@wsj.com
   COfed : Federal Reserve Board | hkmoat : Hong Kong Monetary Authority   INireest : Real Estate | icre : Real Estate/Construction   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | e1121 : Home Sales/Housing Affordability | ereal : Real Estate Markets | m131 : Money Markets | e1102 : Money Supply | e52 : Euro Zone/Currency | ecat : Economic News | emhpr : Housing Prices | emort : Mortgage Rate | gcurry : Personal Investments in Currency | gmmrk : Money Market Funds | greest : Real Estate/Property | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mcuop : Currency Options | mforx : Forex Derivatives | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Monetary Policy | gcat : Political/General News | gpersf : Personal Finance | gpersi : Personal Investments | m15 : Derivative Securities | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter   REhkong : Hong Kong | china : China | usa : United States | asiaz : Asia | apacz : Asia Pacific | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America   IPDSYND | WSJ-PRO-WSJ.com | Norman Chan | WSJ.com | Real Estate   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument WSJO000020151217ebch001md  



 HDDoubleLine Capital's Gundlach sees 30 percent chance of recession next year   BYBy Jennifer Ablan      WC339 words   PD17 December 2015   ET00:19   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2015 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   
   LPNEW YORK, Dec 16 (Reuters) - Jeffrey Gundlach, the widely followed investor who runs DoubleLine Capital, said the U.S. economy faces a 30 percent chance of recession next year after the Federal Reserve's first interest rate increase in nearly a decade on Wednesday.

"Commodity prices so weak suggest dwindling global growth," Gundlach told Reuters.
   TDGundlach, who has warned against interest-rate increases all year, said weak nominal gross domestic product growth; falling commodity prices, especially in energy which portend higher corporate default rates; tightening financial conditions and higher financing costs for corporations will affect growth next year.

The Federal Reserve's policy-setting committee raised the range of its benchmark interest rate by a quarter of a percentage point to between 0.25 percent and 0.50 percent, ending a lengthy debate about whether the economy was strong enough to withstand higher borrowing costs.

"With the economy performing well and expected to continue to do so, the committee judges that a modest increase in the federal funds rate is appropriate," Fed Chair Janet Yellen said in a press conference after the rate decision was announced. "The economic recovery has clearly come a long way.

Gundlach, who oversees $80 billion at the Los Angeles-based DoubleLine, said the Fed "had no reason to raise rates and Yellen's lack of an answer as to why they did proves it. She couldn't answer the question as to why they raised rates today."

Gundlach said the recent announcement of Third Avenue's decision to block redemptions and liquidate a fund with $789 million in assets came at an auspicious time. "If the gating would have been announced a month ago, I believe many credit hedge funds would have seen a spike in year-end redemption requests," Gundlach said. "But by now the deadlines for redemptions have passed for most funds." (Reporting By Jennifer Ablan; Editing by Cynthia Osterman) 
   RFReleased: 2015-12-17T00:19:32.000Z   COdbllll : DoubleLine Capital LP | fed : Federal Reserve Board   INihedge : Hedge Funds | i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles | ialtinv : Alternative Investments | ifinal : Financial Services | iinv : Investing/Securities | i831 : Financial Investments | i83107 : Portfolio/Fund/Asset Management   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | e1101 : Economic Growth | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCSERVICE:ABN | SERVICE:D | SERVICE:E | SERVICE:RBN | SERVICE:M | SERVICE:NAT | SERVICE:U | SERVICE:RNP | SERVICE:DNP | SERVICE:PTD | SERVICE:C | SERVICE:O | SERVICE:MTL | SERVICE:GRO | SERVICE:SOF | SERVICE:OIL | LANG:en | f | DBT | HEDGE | GVD | WLTH | INVT | US | FED | CMPNY | FUND | BISV | INT | PLCY | CEN | FINS | INVS | INVM | MCE | AMERS | FIN | ECO | USA | BACT | ENT | OEC   IPDBusiness | Economy | Entertainment and Lifestyle | US | USA-FED/GUNDLACH | DoubleLine Total Return Bond Fund | USA | FED | GUNDLACH   PUBThomson Reuters (Markets) LLC   ANDocument LBA0000020151216ebcg00zo3  



 HDINTERVIEW-Fed's Williams wants low rates, hot economy in 2016   BYBy Ann Saphir      WC503 words   PD18 December 2015   ET21:38   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2015 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   
   LPSAN FRANCISCO, Dec 18 (Reuters) - The Federal Reserve will aim to keep the U.S. economy running hot next year to boost the job market and inflation, a top central banker said, and to achieve that goal interest-rate hikes will be slow but will not follow any predictable pattern.

"Every meeting will truly be live in terms of adjusting policy one way or the other," San Francisco Federal Reserve Bank President John Williams told Reuters in an interview, referring to the Fed's policy-setting meetings.
   TDFresh forecasts from the Fed suggest most policymakers are looking for four rate hikes next year, and Williams said his own view is in line with that expectation.

"You might immediately jump to the conclusion that it's every other meeting," Williams said. "But as we've learned over the last several years, the economy does not always perform as forecast."

Fed officials unanimously backed an increase Wednesday to the central bank's benchmark interest rate target, lifting rates from near zero for the first time since the financial crisis.

After the rate hike, attention turned immediately to the likely timing of the next move. Many economists have latched on to March as the most probable, in part because that would coincide with Fed Chair Janet Yellen's next scheduled press conference.

That may not be the case, Williams suggested.

This was an idea that Yellen, in her news conference immediately following Wednesday's decision, also sought to emphasize, saying that rate hikes, though gradual, would not necessarily be all a quarter of a percentage point or evenly spaced in the calendar year.

"There was value to having the first move at a press conference meeting," Williams said, "but in the future I don't think that's as much of an issue."

In a wide-ranging, hour-long interview at the San Francisco Fed's headquarters, Williams said he expects easy Fed monetary policy to help push the unemployment rate, now at 5 percent, down to around 4.5 percent by the end of next year.

"We are going to run a higher-pressure economy for a while," he said. Inflation, he said, is still running stubbornly low, in part because of falling energy prices and the strong dollar. "I want to get it back to 2 percent," he said.

But by 2017, he said, inflation should be on its way back to the Fed's 2-percent goal.

"I don't need to be getting this economy to run hot, I just need it to be running at kind of a steady pace," Williams said.

That second, slower stage of economic growth, he said, will occur as the Fed gradually raises its target interest rate to around 3.25 percent to 3.5 percent, a level he sees as the likely long-run neutral rate. (Reporting by Ann Saphir; Editing by Chizu Nomiyama)
   RFReleased: 2015-12-21T20:38:51.000Z   COfed : Federal Reserve Board   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | nitv : Interviews | e12 : Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter   REsfra : San Francisco | usa : United States | namz : North America | usca : California | usw : Western U.S.   IPCSERVICE:ABN | SERVICE:C | SERVICE:GRO | SERVICE:MTL | SERVICE:SOF | SERVICE:D | SERVICE:E | SERVICE:RBN | SERVICE:M | SERVICE:MNI | SERVICE:NAT | SERVICE:O | SERVICE:OIL | SERVICE:RAST | SERVICE:ABX | SERVICE:BNX | SERVICE:FUN | SERVICE:U | LANG:en | f | MCE | INT | INFL | CEN | PXP | US | FED | PLCY | JOB | MPLT | BACT | AMERS | ECI | ECO | USA | OVR | OEC   IPDBusiness | Economy | US | Media type Pictures | Media type Video | Interviews | USA-FED/WILLIAMS (INTERVIEW, PIX, TV) | USA | FED | WILLIAMS (INTERVIEW, PIX, TV)   PUBThomson Reuters (Markets) LLC   ANDocument LBA0000020151218ebci00p5l  



 HD Federal Reserve  raises key  interest rate  by quarter-point, ending 7 years of near-zero rates   WC35 words   PD16 December 2015   ET20:00   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2015.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPWASHINGTON (AP) — Federal Reserve raises key interest rate by quarter-point, ending 7 years of near-zero rates.
   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | gpol : Domestic Politics | e12 : Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCw   IPDUS | APNewsAlert | AP-US-APNewsAlert | Business | General news | Economic policy | Economy | Government business and finance | Government and politics | Government policy | Financial services | Industries | Spot Development | AP Online General Financial/Business News | AP Online   PUBThe Associated Press   ANDocument APRS000020151216ebcg00avz  



 HDFed Rate-Increase to Cool Hong Kong Property Prices   BYBy Dominique Fong      WC758 words   PD17 December 2015   ET05:45   SNDow Jones Institutional News   SCDJDN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright © 2015, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.   
   LPHONG KONG--Homeowners in this major Asian financial center are bracing for the impact of an increase in U.S. interest-rates that could send a chill through the world's most expensive housing market.

Residential home prices have been on a bull run for over a decade in Hong Kong, fueled by surging demand from mainland Chinese buyers, low mortgage-rates and tight housing supply. The former British colony is known as a haven of tiny shoebox-sized apartments sold for eye-popping prices.
   TDA flood of new housing units, announced by the government earlier this year to soothe property prices, is expected to push Hong Kong house prices down. Now, following the U.S. Federal Reserve's decision to raise interest rates from near zero, rising borrowing costs could be another catalyst to cool the market.

"The underlying issue is one of affordability being very, very stretched, " said Paul Louie, a Barclays property analyst. Rising rates would be "one of the trigger points" for a slump in prices, he said.

Hong Kong is particularly sensitive to U.S. monetary policy because its currency is tied to the U.S. dollar. Lending rates in the city typically track U.S. benchmark rates. The Hong Kong Monetary Authority on Thursday raised its base interest-rate by 25 basis points following the Fed decision, with immediate effect.

Hong Kong boasts the world's priciest homes by square foot, according to real-estate brokerage CBRE. As of September, buyers were paying on average $1,416 for each square-foot of housing, compared with $1,025 in London and $842 in New York.

The Hong Kong government has periodically tried to cool a market that saw prices surge more than six times in the 12 years to August, said research firm Gavekal, for example by imposing higher stamp-duties on property purchases and tightening mortgage-lending rules in recent years, but tight supply has kept prices at record heights.

There are signs that prices have started to turn, however, even before the Federal Reserve's Wednesday decision. House prices jumped 23% in the year to early December compared with a year ago, hitting a peak in September, according to a Barclays analysis of local real-estate data tracked by Hong Kong brokerage Centaline. Prices have softened 6% in the three months since.

Analysts widely forecast a 5-10% slump in luxury and mass home prices over the next year as new housing supply enters the market. About 22,000 new housing units will be completed each year over the next five years, pushing down home prices, according to brokerage Knight Frank. That compares with the 11,700 units on average a year over the last decade.

To be sure, some analysts attribute cooling home prices in Hong Kong more to slowing economic growth in Hong Kong and mainland China, as well as a Chinese government campaign against corruption and lavish spending that has caused Chinese buyers to pull back from the property market.

"The rise in the U.S. rate may not necessarily have a negative impact on the Hong Kong market," said Cusson Leung, head of Hong Kong and property research for J.P. Morgan. "We are at a juncture when we are negatively impacted by the China slowdown. At the same time, U.S. rates are also rising, so that's why potentially it may have a larger [effect] on the property market."

Norman Chan, Chief Executive of the Hong Kong Monetary Authority, said last week that rising Federal Reserve interest rates meant Hong Kong could face capital outflows, slower economic growth, and lower property prices. A steady decline in property prices, however, would offer relief to prospective home buyers and business owners who are struggling to pay rent, he added. A spokesperson declined further comment.

In Hong Kong, most mortgages are tied to the interbank lending rate that has remained low because of abundant liquidity in the financial system. Hong Kong banks have discretion whether to raise mortgage rates following a base interest-rate increase.

An increase in mortgage rates would strain the finances of Hong Kong homeowners servicing mortgages. The average Hong Kong family is sinking nearly half their income paying off the monthly mortgage bill, and an uptick in mortgage rates would increase the burden for existing homeowners, Mr. Leung said.

Write to Dominique Fong at Dominique.Fong@wsj.com

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

December 16, 2015 23:45 ET (04:45 GMT)
   COfed : Federal Reserve Board | hkmoat : Hong Kong Monetary Authority   NSe1121 : Home Sales/Housing Affordability | ereal : Real Estate Markets | m131 : Money Markets | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | emhpr : Housing Prices | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncmac : Commodities Asset Class News | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | nfiac : Fixed Income Asset Class News | nfxacb : Forex Asset Class Basic News | nfxacp : Forex Asset Class Premium News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Monetary Policy | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter   REhkong : Hong Kong | china : China | usa : United States | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument DJDN000020151217ebch000cn  

 The Morning Ledger: The End of the Near-Zero Era
CFO Report, 12:36, 16 December 2015, 2510 words, (English)
Get the free Morning Ledger emailed to you each weekday morning by clicking here: http://on.wsj.com/TheMorningLedgerSignup.
Good morning. As a policy tool aimed at staving off disaster, the lengthy period of near-zero interest rates that is ...
Document WCCFO00020151216ebcg0005l



 HDEuropean Morning Briefing: The Fed Delivers   WC3,363 words   PD17 December 2015   ET05:47   SNDow Jones Institutional News   SCDJDN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright © 2015, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.   
   LP
Snapshot: 
======== 

Stocks to rally; EUR/USD 1.0831-34; bonds seen lower; Brent crude at $37.25; gold at $1072.40
   TD-Yellen: Fed to Move Rates Higher in Gradual, Prudent Manner

-Fed Bolsters Tool Kit for Lifting Rates

-EU Data-Privacy Law Raises Daunting Prospects for U.S. Companies

-U.S. Banks Follow Fed in Raising A Key Lending Rate

-Nord Stream 2 Pipeline Spat to Test EU Commitment

-Ukraine, EU Talks Open Way to Visa-Free Deal

-Turkey Launches Military Operation Against Militants in Kurdish Heartland

-U.S., Russia to Offer U.N. Resolution Seeking to Cut off Islamic State Funding

-Belgian Police Had to Delay Terror Raid, Prosecutors Say

-Japan Exports Fall on Weak Chinese Demand

Watch For: E.U. Summit; ECB general council meeting; Germany Ifo business climate index; U.K. retail sales; U.S. Philadelphia fed business outlook survey; U.S. initial jobless claims 


 
European Outlook/Headline News: 
======== 

Markets got the certainty they were seeking after the Federal Reserve said it would raise short-term interest rates for the first time in nine years.

In a widely expected move, the central bank announced a quarter-percentage-point increase in its benchmark federal-funds rate, which it has held near zero since December 2008.

The Fed's decision was unanimous and Chairwoman Janet Yellen emphasized that the central bank would raise rates gradually.

Speaking at a news conference after the rate increase was announced, she said the central bank wants to move in a "prudent" and "gradual" manner. The Fed's policy statement mentioned the word "gradual" twice in referring to the path of future rate increases.

New projections released Wednesday showed officials expected their benchmark rate to creep at a slightly slower pace than projected by officials in September and much slower compared with earlier series of Fed rate increases.

They projected their benchmark federal-funds rate would reach 1.375% by the end of 2016, according to the median projection of 17 officials, to 2.375% by the end of 2017 and 3.25% in three years. That implies four quarter-percentage-point interest rate increases next year, four the next and three or four the following.

"It's been a long time since the Federal Reserve has raised interest rates and think it's prudent to be able to watch what the impact is on financial conditions and spending in the economy, and moving in a timely fashion enables us to do this," Ms. Yellen said.

She noted the rate increase announced Wednesday was just a quarter percentage point, adding "it's important not to overblow the significance of the first move."

Away from the Fed and looking ahead, European Union leaders will meet in Brussels on Thursday and Friday. On the first day of the summit, officials will talk about how to deal with the bloc's ongoing migration crisis, through stemming the flow of refugees and better addressing deficiencies in border control. Turkish Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoglu is expected to join German Chancellor Angela Merkel and a small group of other leaders ahead of the meeting, to discuss the EU-Turkey migration deal struck in November.

Officials will also talk about negotiations with London ahead of the upcoming U.K. referendum. British Prime Minister David Cameron has promised to negotiate changes to Britain's relationship with the EU and then hold a national referendum on membership of the bloc by the end of 2017. The summit was originally expected to be the one where leaders would conclude negotiations on the key issues outlined by the U.K. But Mr. Cameron said on Dec. 3 he didn't expect to secure an agreement on his "difficult" demands for changes to Britain's relationship with the EU.

Later, investors will also be eyeing German IFO figures. Analysts expect the business climate index to hold at 109 and expectations index to remain at 104.7. 


 
Stocks: 
====== 

European stocks have been called higher, tracking the rally seen in global markets.

For Thursday, IG has called the DAX up 129 points at 10598, the CAC up 65 points at 4689, and the FTSE up 69 points at 6130.

U.S. stocks rallied Wednesday after the Fed decision and ended near session highs. The Dow rose 1.3%. It was the 11th largest volume day of the year, with nearly 8.5 billion shares trading.

The Fed's policy of ultralow rates has helped propel U.S. stocks higher since the financial crisis. Many investors say stocks can continue to advance even after the Fed begins to lift rates, since it underscores the central bank's confidence in the economy.

"There's been a tremendous amount of healing in this country," said Michael Scanlon at John Hancock Asset Management. "In my opinion, the economy is strong enough to handle higher rates."

Mr. Scanlon added he expects a better backdrop for corporate earnings next year, which bodes well for stock-market gains.

In Asia, markets rose Thursday, with Australia's S&P/ASX 200 gaining 1.6%, Japan's Nikkei up 2.1% and South Korea's Kospi up 0.2%.

Hong Kong's Hang Seng Index rose 0.4% while the Shanghai Composite Index rose 0.6%. 


 
Forex: 
====== 

EUR/USD has fallen out of the daily Bollinger uptrend channel and subsided back under the Ichimoku Cloud resistance zone, after the dollar advanced with the market's hawkish interpretation of the Fed's statement. The two bearish technical cues highlighted above, which might motivate punters to cut long-EUR/USD positions, suggest that the pair could descend further toward the 1.0799 Bollinger mid-line. Though hawkish on rates, the Fed also forecast an upbeat outlook for the U.S. economy, which hence rallied stocks on Wall Street. At 0055 GMT, EUR/USD was at 1.0883 from its Wednesday close of 1.0911.

The dollar got a lift against the majors. The greenback is likely to drift higher against Asian currencies as well Thursday, particularly against the high-yield currencies such as the Indonesia rupiah and the Malaysia ringgit because the higher cost of borrowing U.S. dollars for carry-trade investors might trigger capitulation. 


 
Bonds: 
===== 

Government bonds are unlikely to make much ground at the European open as investors flock to riskier assets.

The yield on two-year U.S. government debt settled above 1% for the first time in more than five years Wednesday after the Federal Reserve decided to raise short-term interest rates.

Selling in the bond market was moderate as the Fed's first rate increase in nearly a decade has been widely expected by investors.

The Fed's decision had a more subdued impact on the yield on the benchmark 10-year note. That yield initially fell as buyers cheered the Fed's signal over a slow tightening cycle, but it ticked up to end the session higher as U.S. stocks rallied.

"The message is clear from the Fed: the process to remove the punch bowl is going to be very slow and very gradual," said Mary Ann Hurley at D.A. Davidson & Co. "It is hard to see long-term bond yields jump sharply" unless global growth gathers speed or inflation flares up.

In late afternoon trading, the yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note was 2.291%, compared with 2.269% Tuesday.

The yield on the two-year note closed at 1.008%, the highest level since April 2010, compared with 0.968% Tuesday. 


 
Energy: 
======= 

Oil prices were choppy in early Asia trade as a larger-than-expected increase in U.S. crude stockpiles and a stronger greenback offset gains from bargain hunting.

Analysts say the 4.8 million-barrel increase in the U.S. crude inventories last week took the market by surprise as the general expectation was for a slower expansion or a decrease.

"At 490.7 million barrels, U.S. crude oil inventories remain near levels not seen for this time of the year in at least 80 years," said the Energy Information Administration.

On the New York Mercantile Exchange, light, sweet crude futures for delivery in January traded at $35.45 a barrel at 0310 GMT, down $0.07 in the Globex electronic session. February Brent crude on London's ICE Futures exchange fell $0.14 to $37.25 a barrel. 


 
Metals: 
====== 

Gold was trading slightly higher in Asia following the Fed's decision.

"Medium-term, we remain bullish on the U.S. Dollar," said an ANZ report. A stronger dollar could pull gold down, although immediately the rate increase has not affected the precious metal because traders had anticipated the move.

At 0116 GMT, spot gold was trading at $1,072.40, up from the previous close of $1,072.06/oz.

Copper prices rose Wednesday on better-than-expected U.S. housing starts data, but investors remain on tenterhooks ahead of a highly anticipated monetary policy decision from the Federal Reserve.

The most actively traded contract, for March delivery, was recently up 1.65 cents, or 0.8%, at $2.0730 a pound on the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange.

Write to Sarka Halas at sarka.halas@wsj.com @sarkahalas

16 Dec 2015 23:47 ET 
European Morning Briefing: DJ Exclusive Headlines; Other Top Stories

DJ Exclusive Headlines:

Hilton to Spin Off Hotel Properties Into Real-Estate Investment Trust

http://www.wsj.com/articles/hilton-to-spin-off-hotel-properties-into-real-estate-investment-trust-1450300095

Yellen: Fed to Move Rates Higher in Gradual, Prudent Manner

http://www.wsj.com/articles/yellen-fed-to-move-rates-higher-in-gradual-prudent-manner-1450297875

Other Top Stories:

Fed Bolsters Tool Kit for Lifting Interest Rates

The Federal Reserve said on Wednesday it is boosting the size of a program it will use to set a floor under short-term interest rates as part of its effort to increase the cost of borrowing in the U.S. economy.

http://www.wsj.com/articles/fed-updates-details-of-rate-rise-tools-boosts-size-of-reverse-repos-1450292842

U.S. Banks Follow Fed in Raising A Key Lending Rate

U.S. lenders said they would start raising rates on some loans after the Federal Reserve announced on Wednesday that it would lift its own interest-rate target by a quarter percentage point.

http://www.wsj.com/articles/u-s-banks-follow-fed-in-raising-a-key-lending-rate-1450302645

EU Data-Privacy Law Raises Daunting Prospects for U.S. Companies

The sweeping new digital-privacy regime that European Union officials agreed to on Tuesday runs counter to practices that have become commonplace in the U.S., according to several American corporations.

http://www.wsj.com/articles/eu-data-privacy-law-raises-daunting-prospects-for-u-s-companies-1450306033

Ukraine, EU Talks Open Way to Visa-Free Deal

Ukrainian President Petro Poroshenko and top European Union officials reached a tentative deal on Wednesday on Kiev's bid to win visa-free access to the bloc, opening the way for Brussels to back the step as early as Friday, EU officials said.

http://www.wsj.com/articles/ukraine-eu-meeting-aims-to-remove-final-obstacles-to-visa-free-access-1450296025

Nord Stream 2 Pipeline Spat to Test EU Commitment

Thursday's summit of European Union leaders will elevate to the highest political level a fight over a new Russian natural-gas pipeline that is supported by Germany but strongly opposed by the U.S., which fears could further undermine Ukraine's financial and political stability.

http://www.wsj.com/articles/nord-stream-2-pipeline-spat-to-test-eu-commitment-1450298291

U.S., Russia to Offer U.N. Resolution Seeking to Cut off Islamic State Funding

The U.S. and Russia will jointly press the United Nations Security Council on Thursday to enforce stricter measures to curb the funding of Islamic State and other terrorist organizations, according to senior U.S. officials.

http://www.wsj.com/articles/u-s-russia-to-offer-u-n-resolution-seeking-to-cut-off-islamic-state-funding-1450293245

Turkey Launches Military Operation Against Militants in Kurdish Heartland

Thousands of Turkish security forces are converging on the country's Kurdish heartland for what the government is calling a "decisive" military campaign against militants fighting for autonomy.

http://www.wsj.com/articles/turkey-launches-military-operation-against-militants-in-kurdish-heartland-1450294160

Japan Exports Fall on Weak Chinese Demand

Japanese exports fell for a second consecutive month in November on a further retreat in Chinese demand, in a worrisome sign for the economy, according to government data released Thursday.

16 Dec 2015 23:47 ET 
European Morning Briefing: Market Prices and G7 Calendar


DJIA      17749.09 +224.18 +1.28% 
Nasdaq     5071.13  +75.77 +1.52% 
S&P 500    2073.07  +29.66 +1.45% 
FTSE 100   6061.19  +43.40 +0.72% 
Xetra DAX 10469.26  +18.88 +0.18% 
CAC40      4624.67  +10.27 +0.22% 
Closing 
 
Futures: 
Dow      17617.00 -37.00 -0.21% 
Nasdaq    4646.75 -11.00 -0.24% 
S&P       2057.75  -6.00 -0.29% 
As of 0419 GMT 
 
Nikkei    19398.79 +348.88 +1.83% 
Hang Seng 21906.35 +205.14 +0.95% 
S&P/ASX    5109.40  +81.00 +1.61% 
Kospi      1973.43   +4.03 +0.20% 
Shanghai   3568.68  +52.50 +1.49% 
Taipei     8274.39  +89.73 +1.10% 
As of 0425 GMT 
 
USD/JPY 132.79-83 -0.41% 
Range 122.65-122.20 
EUR/USD 1.0831-34 -0.73% 
Range 1.0916-1.0833 
GBP/USD 1.4936-38 -0.45% 
Range 1.5004-1.4923 
USD/CHF 0.9962-66 +0.66% 
Range 0.9964-0.9883 
AUD/USD 0.7164-68 -0.93% 
Range 0.7249-0.7165 
EUR/JPY 132.79-83 -0.41% 
Range 133.39-132.81 
EUR/GBP 0.7251-54 -0.30% 
Range 0.7280-0.7249 
EUR/CHF 1.0792-95 -0.10% 
Range 1.0810-1.0785 
As of 0350 GMT vs. NY close 
 
U.S. Treasurys: 
2Y  99 24/32 -2/32 1.008% +4.1BP 
5Y  99 14/32 -7/32 1.744% +5.0BP 
10Y 99 20/32 -7/32 2.291% +2.6BP 
Closing 
 
10Y JGB flat at 0.295% 
At 0331 GMT 
 
Asian Gold: 
Spot gold at $1072.40 
At 0116 GMT 
 
Oil futures: 
Nymex crude  -7c at $35.45 
Brent crude -14c at $37.25 
At 0310 GMT 
 
 

16 Dec 2015 23:47 ET 
European Morning Briefing: Corporate Events

*denotes events waiting for confirmation

All for One Steeb AG (A1OS.XE) Full year 2015 Analyst meeting

Asgaard Group A/S (ASGGRO.KO) Full year 2015 Results

Baron de Ley (BDL.MC) EGM

Blackrock North American Income Trust (BRNA.LN) Full year 2015 Results*

British Empire Trust PLC (BTEM.LN) Full year 2015 AGM

Cegedim (CGM.FR) 6th Investor Summit

Cherkizovo GroupAnalyst breakfast meeting*

CTC Media (CTCM) Special Meeting re merger agreement

Endomines (ENDO.SK) EGM

Flugger - B Share (FLUG-B.KO) Interim 2016 Results

Gefran (GE.MI) Analyst meeting re approval of business plan 2016-2019

General de Alquiler de Maquinaria (GALQ.MC) EGM

Grupo Empresarial San Jose (GSJ.MC) EGM

Harboes Bryggeri - B Share (HARB-B.KO) Interim 2016 Results

Intereuropa (IEKG.LJ) 2016 Presentation

JPMorgan Brazil Investment Trust (JPB.LN) Interim 2016 Results*

JPMorgan Chinese IT (JMC.LN) Full year 2015 Results*

Kauno Energija (KNR1L.LV) EGM

KWS Saat (KWS.XE) Full year 2015 AGM

Lar Espana Real Estate S.A. (LRE.MC) EGM

Local Shopping REIT (The) (LSR.LN) Full year 2015 Preliminary results

Lonmin (LMI.LN) Lonmin record date for 1-for-46 share consolidation

Low & Bonar (LWB.LN) Full year 2015 Trading statement*

Luxor - B Share (LUXOR-B.KO) Full year 2015 Results

Management Consulting Group PLC (MMC.LN) General Meeting

Maurel & Prom (MAU.FR) EGM re merger by absorption of MPI by Maurel & Prom

Miton UK MicroCap Trust (MINI.LN) Interim 2015 Results

MOBOTIX AG (MOBOF) Full year 2015 AGM

Mostostal Plock SA (MSP.WA) EGM

MQ Holding AB (MQ.SK) Q1 2015 Results

Nmas1 Dinamia SA (N1.MC) EGM

Novorossiysk Commercial Sea Port (NMTP.MZ) November Operating Results*

Paragon Shipping (PRGN) Q3 2015 Earnings conference call

Pentair PLC (PNR) Full year 2016 Outlook

Perrot Duval Holding SAInterim 2016 Results*

Portucel (PTI.LB) EGM re distribution of retained earnings - 1st call

Premier Farnell (PFL.LN) Q3 2015 Trading statement

PurplebricksPurplebricks shares expected to commence trading on AIM

RNB Retail and Brands AB (RNBS.SK) Q1 2016 Results

Sanochemia Pharmazeutika AG (SAC.VI) Full year 2015 Preliminary results

SAS AB (SAS.SK) Full year 2015 Earnings conference call / Webcast

SkiStar AB - B Share (SKIS-B.SK) Q1 2016 Results

Smart (J) & Co (SMJ.LN) Full year 2015 AGM

STV Group PLC (STVG.LN) Trading statement [pre-close]*

Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd (TEVA.TV) Full year 2016 Financial Outlook*

TK Development A/S (TKDV.KO) Q3 2015 Results

Travelport Worldwide Ltd (TVPT) Investor Day

Volvo AB - B Share (VOLV-B.SK) November Truck Deliveries

16 Dec 2015 23:48 ET 
European Morning Briefing: Dividend Payment & Ex-Div Dates

*denotes events waiting for confirmation

Aberdeen Latin American Income Fund (ALAI.LN) Q1 2016 Ex-dividend date

Aegean Marine Petroleum (ANW) Q3 2015 Dividend payment date

Assura PLC (AGR.LN) Q3 2016 Ex-dividend date

Atresmedia (A3M.MC) Interim 2015 Ex-dividend date

Bastide Le Confort Medical (BLC.FR) Full year 2015 Dividend payment date - proposed

Berkeley Group (BKG.LN) Interim 2016 Ex-dividend date

Betfair Group PLC (BET.LN) Interim 2016 Ex-dividend date - proposed

Carr's Group PLC (CARR.LN) Full year 2015 Ex-dividend date - proposed

Datacolor (DCN.EB) Full year 2015 Dividend payment date - proposed

e2v technologies (E2V.LN) Interim 2016 Dividend payment date

Enagas (ENG.MC) Interim 2015 Dividend payment date

Enagas (ENG.MC) Interim 2015 Ex-dividend date

Foresight Solar Fund (FSFL.LN) Q3 2015 Ex-dividend date*

Gooch & Housego (GHH.LN) Q4 2015 Ex-dividend date - proposed

Greene King (GNK.LN) Interim 2016 Ex-dividend date

Halfords Group PLC (HFD.LN) Interim 2016 Ex-dividend date

Henderson High Income Trust (HHI.LN) Q4 2015 Ex-dividend date

Itesoft (ITE.FR) General meeting re distribution of dividends

James Halstead (JHD.LN) Special ex-dividend date

JPMorgan Euro Small Co. Trust (JESC.LN) Interim 2016 Ex-dividend date

JPMorgan Global Emerging Markets Income Trust PLC (JEMI.LN) Q1 2016 Ex-dividend date

JPMorgan Senior Secured Loan Fund (JPSL.LN) Interim 2015 Ex-dividend date

Liontrust Asset Management (LIO.LN) Interim 2016 Dividend payment date

Marston's PLC (MARS.LN) Full year 2015 Ex-dividend date - proposed

Mercantile Investment Trust (MRC.LN) Q3 2015 Ex-dividend date

MITIE Group (MTO.LN) Interim 2016 Ex-dividend date

MJ Gleeson PLC (GLE.LN) Full year 2015 Dividend payment date - proposed

MPI (MPI.FR) General Meeting

Murray Income Trust (Ord) (MUT.LN) Q1 2016 Ex-dividend date

PayPoint (PAY.LN) Interim 2016 Dividend payment date

Paz Oil (PZOL.TV) Interim 2015 Ex-dividend date - proposed*

Personal Group Holdings PLC (PGH.LN) Q4 2015 Dividend payment date

Royal Caribbean Cruises (RCL) Q4 2015 Ex-dividend date

Securities Trust of Scotland (STS.LN) Q2 2016 Dividend payment date

Severfield PLC (SFR.LN) Interim 2016 Ex-dividend date

Sirius Real Estate Ltd (SRE.LN) General Meeting re scrip dividend alternative

Speedy Hire (SDY.LN) Interim 2016 Ex-dividend date

Standard Life European Private Equity Trust (SEP.LN) Full year 2015 Ex-dividend date - proposed

TCS Group Holding PLC (TCS.LN) Interim 2015 Ex-dividend date*

Travelport Worldwide Ltd (TVPT) Q3 2015 Dividend payment date

United Utilities (UU.LN) Interim 2016 Ex-dividend date

Vilmorin & Cie (RIN.FR) Full year 2015 Dividend payment date - proposed

XP Power (XPP.LN) Q3 2015 Ex-dividend date

Zoopla Property Group (ZPLA.LN) Full year 2015 Ex-dividend date - proposed

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

December 16, 2015 23:48 ET (04:48 GMT)
   COfed : Federal Reserve Board   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | nenac : Energy Asset Class News | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | nfiac : Fixed Income Asset Class News | ntop : Top Wire News | ntuks : Top UK Stories | e12 : Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | ndj : Dow Jones Top Stories | nfact : Factiva Filters | redit : Selection of Top Stories/Trends/Analysis   REuk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | gfr : Germany | eurz : Europe | dach : DACH Countries | eecz : European Union Countries | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument DJDN000020151217ebch000co  



 SEMarkets   HDFinancial Advisers Steer Steady Course as Fed Finally Acts; Some advisers will send out special communications to their investors on the  Federal Reserve ’s  interest-rate  move   BYBy Daisy Maxey And Anne Tergesen      WC941 words   PD16 December 2015   ET23:35   SNThe Wall Street Journal Online   SCWSJO   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
   LPFinancial advisers plan to make few portfolio changes as a result of Wednesday's \b interest-rate\b0  boost by the U.S. Federal Reserve, as many had expected rising interest rates for years.

But some advisers will send out special communications to their investors, many of whom had been asking and fretting about the potential impact of a rate increase on their portfolios and the broader economy.
   TD“This was the best-telegraphed Fed move ever," said Lex Zaharoff, senior wealth adviser at HTG Investment Advisors Inc. in New Canaan, Conn., which manages $440 million in assets. As expected, the Fed said it would raise its benchmark federal-funds rate by a quarter percentage point to between 0.25% and 0.5%.

“Just getting this first move—as small as it is—behind us, lets everyone stop focusing on, ‘when will the Fed start to raise rates?'" Mr. Zaharoff said. A possible rate increase had come up in every client meeting over the last few months, and the advisory firm had been reminding investors to “stay focused on the long term," he said.

For the last few years, HTG hedged its bond exposure by holding about half as much as it ordinarily would in intermediate-term bond funds with an average maturity between five and seven years. It put the remainder in debt funds with average maturities of two to four years, which would fall less in price given a comparable increase in market yields. “We're just not quite sure how quickly the Fed might raise rates" in the future, Mr. Zaharoff said.

Advisers and investors have faced trade-offs in recent years in positioning bond portfolios for the long-awaited climb in interest rates. When investors shift to shorter maturities to minimize the risk of price declines when rates rise, they typically must accept lower interest income upfront. Intermediate-term bond funds may suffer initially when rates rise, but over a period of years, they are likely to do better in an environment of rising interest rates than in one in which rates stay at the recent years' unusually low levels.

ProVise Management Group LLC in Clearwater, Fla., has held only short-term bonds with maturities of two years or less for several years. “We have preferred to be defensive, so we have stayed short-term," said Paul Auslander, director of financial planning at the firm, which manages $1.2 billion for clients. “Clients have made less yield, but this protects them when the inevitable rate increase happens."

As rates head higher, U.S. stocks—which Mr. Auslander views as fairly valued—will become more volatile and may face headwinds, he said. European stocks offer better value, he said, and he is currently allocating 25% of clients' equity portfolios to them, up from 10% to 15% a year ago.

Although emerging-markets stocks and bonds are attractive as long-term investments, he is avoiding them for the time being. As rates rise in the U.S., cash likely will flow out of emerging markets into U.S. securities, he said.

Michael Mullaney, vice president and chief investment officer at Fiduciary Trust Co. in Boston, was relieved when he heard that the Fed had acted as expected on Wednesday. If the Fed hadn't begun raising rates, “it would have been a mini-Armageddon in the markets," he said.

Individual investors have been nervous about the Fed “taking away the punch bowl," a reference to the easy monetary policies which many believe have allowed stocks to soar, Mr. Mullaney said. He said he would send an email to clients noting that when the Fed has made the first in a series of rate increases, stock prices are generally higher three to six months down the road.

Mr. Mullaney doesn't anticipate making any changes to client portfolios as a result of the Fed's move. This first quarter-point boost “is really symbolic more than anything," he said.

Earlier this year, Fiduciary Trust cut clients' holdings of conventional U.S. bonds and increased exposure to Treasury inflation-protected securities. “We know that inflation is probably going to start percolating," Mr. Mullaney explained.

Christopher Jones, chief investment officer at Financial Engines Inc., said the Sunnyvale, Calif., manager of 401(k) accounts has been hearing questions from investors in recent months about the potential impact of rising interest rates on their bond portfolios. The firm's telephone representatives explain the merits of diversification and how investors would be giving up some return if they didn't have exposure to bonds for the long run, Mr. Jones said.

To reassure clients, Financial Engines expects to repeat that message in a one-page commentary to clients later this week. The firm will alter client portfolios only if its models indicate that market moves have changed expectations of future returns to stocks and bonds—something that typically happens gradually, Mr. Jones said. Financial Engines runs its models once a month and doesn't plan to accelerate that procedure unless markets make dramatic moves in the interim, he said.

“It looks like the market's reaction has been what was expected," Mr. Jones said. Because a Fed rate rise “had largely been factored into people's assessments of the value of financial assets," the market has had “pretty much a ho-hum reaction," he said.

Write to Daisy Maxey at daisy.maxey@wsj.com and Anne Tergesen at anne.tergesen@wsj.com
   COfed : Federal Reserve Board   INi814 : Banking | iinv : Investing/Securities | iwealth : Private Banking/Wealth Management | i831 : Financial Investments | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services   NSc172 : Corporate Debt Instruments | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | reqris : Suggested Reading   Investing/Securities | c17 : Corporate Funding | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e12 : Monetary Policy | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | redit : Selection of Top Stories/Trends/Analysis | reqr : Suggested Reading   Industry News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPDSYND | WSJ-PRO-WSJ.com | Paul Auslander | Michael Mullaney | Christopher Jones | WSJ.com | Wealth Management Journal   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument WSJO000020151216ebcg0048v  



 SEEconomy   HDEconomists Didn’t See December Rate Rise — Until Almost Everyone Did; Fed will raise benchmark  interest rate  for the first time in almost seven years   BYBy Ben Leubsdorf      WC690 words   PD16 December 2015   ET20:33   SNThe Wall Street Journal Online   SCWSJO   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
   LPHardly any professional economic forecasters correctly predicted the Federal Reserve would start raising short-term interest rates in December—that is, until liftoff was just a few months away.
   TDThe Fed said Wednesday that it would lift its benchmark federal-funds rate by a quarter percentage point after holding it near zero for seven years. But earlier this year, December wasn't even on the radar for the dozens of business and academic economists surveyed every month by The Wall Street Journal. As late as March, not a single economist the Journal surveyed predicted liftoff would come in December. June was the most popular pick as 2015 began, and in the summer, an overwhelming majority predicted the central bank's first move would come in September.

A handful of economists in the spring began forecasting the Fed's first move would come in December, but most backed off those guesses in subsequent months. Broader sentiment shifted in favor of the Fed's final meeting of 2015 only after financial-market turmoil and worries about global growth threw an earlier liftoff into doubt and Fed officials began sending strong signals that a December move was probable.

Among the few who got it right early and didn't waver: economists at Morgan Stanley, who began to predict a December liftoff back in April. They previously expected officials would wait until 2016 to move but told clients in a note at the time that “the Fed has sent a strong message it plans to hike rates this year" and “we take this message to heart."

Ellen Zentner, Morgan Stanley's chief U.S. economist, said they were convinced that while the Fed was making solid progress on the employment side of its dual mandate, “we just didn't feel that the inflation side of the mandate was going to cooperate" in the near term. They stuck to their December call even as Fed officials signaled that liftoff in September was a strong possibility—and were vindicated.

“It was an inflation story all along," she said earlier this week.

Tufts University economist Brian Bethune also predicted a December liftoff back in April. He said the rising dollar and weak overseas outlook helped convince him the Fed would wait longer than most people at the time expected. In the fall, though, he pushed his liftoff call out to March.

“I never should have backed off my December" guess, he said last week.

By early June, HSBC also was predicting a December liftoff and stuck to that call. “We were convinced it couldn't happen in September because of the global developments," said Kevin Logan, the bank's U.S. chief economist. “Upon reflection, it was more of a not-September call."

In mid-June, Goldman Sachs moved its liftoff prediction to December from September, largely on the basis of revisions that month to the Fed's “dot plot" of interest-rate projections.

The tide turned as summer turned to fall. Predictions for a December liftoff in the Journal's monthly survey rose from 13% in August to 35% in September, 64% in October, 92% in November and a near-unanimous 97% earlier this month.

Predicting the future isn't easy, even for people paid to do it, and economic forecasts are wrong most of the time. To be fair, few Fed policy makers thought a year ago that they would be waiting until this month to begin raising rates, based on their rate projections at the time. Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis President James Bullard last week highlighted the Fed's recent errors in forecasting economic growth, inflation and hiring—surprises that he said caused the central bank to delay raising rates.

The tricky task faced by economists in predicting Fed policy, Ms. Zentner said, is that “what they want to do and what they should do are completely different from what they will do."

Write to Ben Leubsdorf at ben.leubsdorf@wsj.com
   COfed : Federal Reserve Board   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Monetary Policy   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPDPRO | SYND | WSJ-PRO-CB | WSJ-PRO-WSJ.com | Ellen Zentner | Brian Bethune | Kevin Logan | James Bullard | WSJ.com | Central Banks   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument WSJO000020151216ebcg004eg  



 HDMETALS-Copper revives on short-covering; focus on Fed   WC454 words   PD16 December 2015   ET02:58   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2015 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   
   LPMELBOURNE, Dec 16 (Reuters) - London copper edged up on Wednesday from a one-week low hit in the previous session as investors covered short positions ahead of a widely anticipated interest rate hike in the United States.

FUNDAMENTALS
   TD* Three-month copper on the London Metal Exchange had risen 0.4 percent to $4,585 a tonne by 0132 GMT, reversing losses from the previous session when prices dropped to $4,554, the weakest since Dec. 8.

* Shanghai Futures Exchange copper fell 1.6 percent to 35,410 yuan ($5,479)a tonne.

* Eight years after a devastating recession opened an era of loose U.S. monetary policy, the Federal Reserve on Tuesday began a two-day meeting at which it is expected to turn in the other direction and raise rates in an increasingly normal economy.

* Underlying U.S. inflation pressures rose in November, which could give the Fed more confidence to raise interest rates on Wednesday, even as renewed weakness in gasoline prices kept overall consumer prices in check.

* China's central bank is on guard against a sudden attack on the yuan in offshore markets, and is ready to intervene if the gap between offshore and onshore exchange rates becomes destabilising, sources involved in policy discussions say.

* Shipments of nickel ore to Australia from New Caledonia in January-September slumped by more than half from a year earlier, as the French Pacific island exported more ore to South Korea, data from the International Nickel Study Group (INSG) released on Tuesday showed.

* For the top stories in metals and other news, click or

MARKETS NEWS

* Asian stocks gained early on Wednesday, with sentiment lifting as Wall Street rose before a likely hike in U.S. interest rates, while the dollar held large gains made as Treasury yields picked up.

DATA/EVENTS AHEAD (GMT)

0800 France Markit manufacturing flash PMI Dec

0830 Germany Markit manufacturing flash PMI Dec

0858 Euro zone Markit manufacturing flash PMI Dec

1000 Euro zone Eurostat trade Oct

1330 U.S. Housing starts Nov

1330 U.S. Building permits Nov

1415 U.S. Industrial output Nov

1445 U.S. Markit manufacturing flash PMI Dec

1900 Federal Reserve releases statement after policy meeting

1930 Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen holds new briefing

PRICES

Three month LME copper

Most active ShFE copper

Three month LME aluminium

Most active ShFE aluminium

Three month LME zinc

Most active ShFE zinc

Three month LME lead

Most active ShFE lead

Three month LME nickel

Most active ShFE nickel

Three month LME tin

Most active ShFE tin

($1 = 6.4631 Chinese yuan renminbi) (Reporting by Melanie Burton; Editing by Joseph Radford) 
   RFReleased: 2015-12-16T02:58:12.000Z   COfed : Federal Reserve Board   NSmnonfr : Non-ferrous Metals | epmi : Purchasing Managers Index | e1202 : Interest Rates | mcopp : Copper Markets | mzinc : Zinc Markets | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1111 : Industrial Production | e12 : Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m14 : Commodity Markets | m142 : Metals Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | austr : Australia | melb : Melbourne | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | namz : North America | victor : Victoria (Australia)   IPCSERVICE:C | SERVICE:D | SERVICE:E | SERVICE:M | SERVICE:O | SERVICE:U | SERVICE:MTL | SERVICE:GRO | SERVICE:SOF | SERVICE:OIL | SERVICE:AUF | SERVICE:ABN | SERVICE:Z | SERVICE:ABX | SERVICE:BNX | SERVICE:FUN | SERVICE:J | SERVICE:RNP | SERVICE:DNP | SERVICE:PTD | LANG:en | OEC | COM | EMRG | WEU | GB | EUROP | CN | ASIA | LEAD1 | TIN1 | BASMTL | CPPR | ALU | NKL | ZNC | METL | ALUM | GBR | CHN | UK | BACT   IPDBusiness | Economy | Asia | Europe | UK | Market Reports | Reports | GLOBAL-METALS/ | GLOBAL | METALS   PUBThomson Reuters (Markets) LLC   ANDocument LBA0000020151216ebcg00339  



 SEEconomy   HDFed Forecasts Show Only Small Changes to Officials’ Outlook; Fed officials still don’t expect inflation to return to 2% until 2018   BYBy Michael S. Derby      WC395 words   PD16 December 2015   ET20:08   SNThe Wall Street Journal Online   SCWSJO   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
   LPWASHINGTON—Federal Reserve officials said Wednesday they expect a more gradual pace of short-term interest rate increases in coming years than they did three months ago.

They also tweaked very modestly their views on the outlook for the economy, according to forecasts released after the conclusion of the Fed's two-day policy meeting. Officials made small changes in their views of future economic activity, and they still don't expect to achieve their 2% inflation rise target until 2018.
   TDIn the projections, the median expected federal-funds rate target at the end of 2016 is 1.375%, matching September's projection. The median view of the longer-run level of the fed-funds rate also held steady at 3.50%.

After the Fed's policy committee decided to raise short-term rates from near zero, it stopped offering projections of when officials expect to start lifting borrowing costs. In September, three officials wanted to hold off on raising rates until 2016, and one wanted to wait until 2017.

The December Fed forecasts no longer show any officials favoring negative interest rates, as one did in the September projections, which don't identify which individuals made which predictions.

The Fed's economic and interest-rate projections are updated four times a year.

Fed officials' median expectation for economic growth in 2016 is now 2.4%, up from the 2.3% forecast in the September release. For 2017 the median expected growth rate held steady at the prior forecast's 2.2%, and in the longer run, Fed officials continue to see the economy's growth rate at 2.0%.

Fed officials still see a slow rise in inflation back to their target. The median expectation for inflation next year is for 1.6%, versus the median 1.7% seen in September. Fed officials still don't expect a return to 2% until 2018.

Policy makers are more optimistic about unemployment, which was 5% in November. The median expected unemployment rate for 2016 is 4.7%, down from the prior estimate of 4.8%. The median forecast of longer-run unemployment held at September's 4.9%.

Write to Michael S. Derby at michael.derby@wsj.com
   COfed : Federal Reserve Board   INi814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | e1103 : Inflation/Prices | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Monetary Policy   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPDALERTABLE | PRO | SYND | WSJ-PRO-CB | WSJ-PRO-WSJ.com | WSJ.com | Central Banks   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument WSJO000020151216ebcg00463  



 HDGilts rally after U.S. Fed commits to gradual rate hike cycle   BYBy Andy Bruce      WC438 words   PD17 December 2015   ET10:48   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2015 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   
   LPLONDON, Dec 17 (Reuters) - British gilt prices rallied on Thursday after the U.S. Federal Reserve raised interest rates for the first time in nearly a decade, with bond investors relieved by the central bank's commitment to a "gradual" cycle of rate hikes.

The Fed raised the range of its benchmark interest rate by a quarter of a percentage point to between 0.25 percent and 0.50 percent, ending a lengthy debate about whether the U.S. economy was strong enough to withstand higher borrowing costs.
   TDThe move sparked a surge in equity markets, heartened by the signal of confidence in the world's largest economy, as well as in European government bonds.

Ten-year gilt yields fell 5.6 basis points on the day to 1.89 percent, and yields fell across other maturities too.

"Overall, there were no nasty surprises in there - the Fed sounded quite dovish, data-dependent, so I think fixed income markets were quite happy with it," Jason Simpson, fixed income strategist at Societe Generale.

Gilt yields briefly edged higher after stronger-than-expected British retail sales data.

Short sterling futures rose, particularly for the longest-dated contracts, pointing to a slightly shallower path for British interest rate hikes.

There was little change in market pricing for the timing of the first Bank of Englandinterest rate hike, which is still marked for around the end of next year.

"There will come stage when it's the Bank of England's turn, but (not) as things stand," said Simpson, who pointed to data on Wednesday that showed weakening British wage growth.

"That's clearly been indicated as a driver of Bank policy. It removes any pressure to hike near term, with commodity prices likely to keep the headline rate of (British) inflation low."

Gilts lagged German Bunds, with the 10-year yield spread rising around a basis point on the day to 127.5 basis points.

March long gilt future 117.31 (+0.54)

June 2016 short sterling 99.27 (unch)

Dec 2016 short sterling 99.07 (+0.01)

10-year gilt yield 1.89 (-5.6 bps)

-------------------KEY MARKET DATA--------------------------- Long Gilt futures <0#FLG:> Gilt benchmark chain Short Stg futures <0#FSS:> Cash market quotes Deposit rates Sterling cross rates UK debt speedguide 

-------------------KEY MARKET REPORTS--------------------------
Gilts                 Sterling            
Euro Debt         Dollar              
U.S. Treasuries       Debt reports        
--------------------GILT STRIPS DATA -------------------------
Gilt strips data    All gilt strips    
Gilt strips IO    Gilt strips PO   


(editing by John Stonestreet) 
   RFReleased: 2015-12-17T10:48:23.000Z   COfed : Federal Reserve Board   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | mntdbt : National Government Debt/Bond Markets | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | e12 : Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | uk : United Kingdom | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe   IPCSERVICE:ABN | SERVICE:D | SERVICE:E | SERVICE:RBN | SERVICE:M | SERVICE:UKI | SERVICE:RNP | SERVICE:DNP | LANG:en | OEC | DBT | DRV | MMT | GVD | MCE | WEU | GB | EUROP | LEN | GBR | BACT | UK   IPDBusiness | Economy | Europe | UK | Market Reports | Reports | BRITAIN-BONDS/ | BRITAIN | BONDS   PUBThomson Reuters (Markets) LLC   ANDocument LBA0000020151217ebch00bte  



 HDU.S. short-term  interest-rate  futures contracts drop after Fed   WC158 words   PD16 December 2015   ET20:12   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2015 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   
   LPDec 16 (Reuters) - U.S. short-term interest-rate futures contracts fell on Wednesday after the Federal Reserve raised its benchmark interest rate for the first time since the financial crisis and forecast further rate hikes would be gradual.

The wording of the Fed's post-meeting statement and fresh projections from Fed officials on the future path of rates prompted traders to boost their bets on further rate hikes next year.
   TDFed funds futures contracts show that traders still expect the Fed to wait to raise rates until mid-2016, but are seeing increasing odds that the central bank will end up boosting rates three times before the end of next year.

Before the Fed decision, traders saw odds at about even for either two or three rate hikes during 2016. (Reporting by Ann Saphir; Editing by Jeffrey Benkoe) 
   RFReleased: 2015-12-16T20:12:25.000Z   COfed : Federal Reserve Board   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | m15 : Derivative Securities | e12 : Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCSERVICE:ABN | SERVICE:D | SERVICE:M | SERVICE:NAT | SERVICE:RNP | SERVICE:DNP | SERVICE:PTD | SERVICE:C | SERVICE:E | SERVICE:O | SERVICE:U | SERVICE:MTL | SERVICE:GRO | SERVICE:SOF | SERVICE:OIL | LANG:en | OEC | DBT | FUND | DRV | MMT | GVD | FINS | BANK | MCE | BNKCAP | INT | PLCY | REGS | US | INFL | CEN | WASH | POL | FED | MPLT | BISV | BSVC | BACT | AMERS | ECI | GEN | BNK | ECO | FIN | USA | PIA | OVR   IPDBusiness | Economy | Politics | US | USA-FED/FUTURES (URGENT) | USA | FED | FUTURES (URGENT)   PUBThomson Reuters (Markets) LLC   ANDocument LBA0000020151216ebcg00u69  



 HDMONEY MARKETS-Dollar Libor highest since early 2012 before Fed meeting   WC281 words   PD16 December 2015   ET14:41   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2015 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   
   LPNEW YORK, Dec 16 (Reuters) - A key interest rate that banks charge each other to borrow three-month dollars rose on Wednesday to its highest level since early 2012 in advance of a possible interest rate increase from the U.S. Federal Reserve.

The London interbank offered rate on dollar-denominated loans among banks for three months was fixed at 0.53250 percent, a level not seen since February 2012. It was up from 0.52575 percent on Tuesday and has risen nearly 0.20 basis points since early November.
   TDLibor is a benchmark rate for $350 trillion in financial products worldwide.

The U.S. central bank is widely expected to raise its target range on the interest rate in the federal funds market from zero to 0.25 percent to 0.25 to 0.50 percent, prompted by an improving labor market.

Its rate decision is scheduled to be announced at 2 p.m. EST (1900 GMT), followed by a press conference by Fed Chair Janet Yellen at 2:30 p.m. (1930 GMT).

Other dollar short-term rates have been rising in anticipation of the Fed's first rate increase in 9-1/2 years.

The overnight borrowing cost in the fed funds market, where banks borrow excess reserves from each other, held for a second day at 0.15 percent, the highest since August.

In the $5 trillion repurchase agreement market, investors charged 0.37 percent to 0.41 percent for overnight loans , the highest since late June, according to ICAP data. (Reporting by Richard Leong; Editing by Jeffrey Benkoe) 
   RFReleased: 2015-12-16T14:41:16.000Z   COfed : Federal Reserve Board   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | m131 : Money Markets | elibor : London Interbank Offered Rate | e12 : Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | effund : Interbank Rate | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCSERVICE:ABN | SERVICE:D | SERVICE:M | SERVICE:MNI | SERVICE:NAT | SERVICE:RNP | SERVICE:DNP | SERVICE:PTD | SERVICE:C | SERVICE:E | SERVICE:O | SERVICE:U | SERVICE:MTL | SERVICE:GRO | SERVICE:SOF | SERVICE:OIL | LANG:en | f | DBT | DRV | MMT | OPT | INT | US | MCE | CEN | AMERS | USA | BACT | OEC   IPDBusiness | Economy | US | Market Reports | Reports | USA-MONEYMARKETS/ | USA | MONEYMARKETS   PUBThomson Reuters (Markets) LLC   ANDocument LBA0000020151216ebcg00kzv  



 HDGulf markets keep faith in FX pegs after U.S. rate hike   BYBy Archana Narayanan      WC517 words   PD17 December 2015   ET15:22   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2015 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   
   LPDUBAI, Dec 17 (Reuters) - Financial markets in the Gulf reacted calmly on Thursday to the first U.S. interest rate hike in nine years, suggesting most investors think the region can defend its currency pegs to the dollar for the foreseeable future.

The U.S. Federal Reserve lifted the range for its benchmark interest rate by a quarter of a percentage point on Wednesday, threatening to suck funds out of the Gulf and adding to pressure on the currencies of the region's wealthy energy exporters.
   TDThree Gulf central banks - Saudi Arabia, Kuwait and Bahrain - sought to defend their currencies by hiking their own key rates by a similar margin within half an hour of the Fed's decision. A fourth, the United Arab Emirates, followed suit on Thursday.

Short-term money market rates in the Gulf rose moderately on Thursday but currencies barely moved in the forward foreign exchange market, while bond prices were steady.

Banking stocks in the Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates rose as investors bet that higher interest rates at home and abroad would expand banks' lending margins.

Fund managers said the markets' response showed investors believed the Gulf could ride out an era of rising interest rates, even though tighter credit promises to combine with low oil prices to slow economic growth.

Sergey Dergachev, senior portfolio manager for emerging market debt at Union Investment Privatfonds in Germany, said the speedy action by Gulf central banks following the Fed decision had helped to quell market jitters.

"The strong and swift response, especially by Saudi, is a signal to the market that pegs will be maintained, and all rumours about pegs collapsing are far-fetched," he said.

The money markets' reaction suggested a large proportion of the initial interest rate hikes had already been factored into the markets.

After the Saudi central bank raised its reverse repurchase rate by 0.25 percentage point, the three-month Saudi interbank offered rate climbed 10 basis points on Thursday to 1.37 percent, its highest level since January 2009.

Interbank money rates in the United Arab Emirates and Kuwait rose by smaller margins.

"Gulf money markets are more clued on to local liquidity conditions, as the rise in overnight rates in the past quarter has highlighted, and do not view Fed policy as a game changer - at least not in the current expected trajectory," said Anirban Kundu, head of investment advisory services at Saudi Fransi Capital.

Nevertheless, some analysts said tightening U.S. monetary policy could still cause volatility in Gulf markets in future, as Gulf central banks could be pressured into imitating U.S. rate hikes even as their economies slowed. Many analysts expect two or three further U.S. rate rises in 2016.

"We could experience higher levels of market volatility and headwinds from higher longer-term rates," said Mohieddine Kronfol, chief investment officer for regional fixed income at Franklin Templeton Investments. (Additional reporting by Matt Smith; Editing by Tom Heneghan) 
   RFReleased: 2015-12-17T15:22:17.000Z   COfed : Federal Reserve Board   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | m131 : Money Markets | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | e12 : Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | meastz : Middle East | namz : North America   IPCSERVICE:C | SERVICE:D | SERVICE:E | SERVICE:M | SERVICE:O | SERVICE:U | SERVICE:MTL | SERVICE:GRO | SERVICE:SOF | SERVICE:OIL | SERVICE:GBN | SERVICE:GFN | SERVICE:DNP | LANG:en | OEC | SA | AE | MEAST | MMT | FRX | BISV | INT | PLCY | CEN | ECO | SAU | ARE | MCE | BACT   IPDBusiness | Economy | Middle East | MIDEAST-RATES/ | MIDEAST | RATES   PUBThomson Reuters (Markets) LLC   ANDocument LBA0000020151217ebch00ix6  



 HDUPDATE 2-In first hint of hike, Turkish central bank lifts rate on dollar reserves   WC466 words   PD17 December 2015   ET12:06   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2015 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   
   LP(Adds quote, markets)

By Nevzat Devranoglu and Ece Toksabay
   TDANKARA, Dec 17 (Reuters) - Turkey's central bank raised the interest rate it pays on U.S. dollar-denominated required reserves on Thursday, taking its first step towards the policy tightening some investors have been hoping for when it meets next week.

The central bank faces a crucial credibility test when it meets for the last time this year on Dec.22.

It has previously signalled that it would wait to take its cue from the U.S. Federal Reserve. Failure to follow the Fed's lead - the Fed lifted rates on Wednesday - would exacerbate investor concerns about the independence in the face of pressure from President Tayyip Erdogan.

"This move is only symbolic to support markets, but it gives a signal that the Dec. 22 meeting may result in a policy rate hike," a liquidity manager at an Istanbul bank said.

The Turkish central bank increased the interest rate on dollar-denominated required reserves, reserve options and free reserves held at the bank to 0.49 percent from 0.24 percent.

"As the market response to yesterday's rate hike has been quite positive, we expect the bank to start implementing its previously released monetary policy normalisation," Odeabank said in a note to clients.

Erdogan equates high borrowing costs with treason. His chief economic adviser said late on Wednesday that markets would respond positively to the U.S. rate increase and it would be beneficial for Turkey to seek an opportunity to cut interest rates.

Writing on his Twitter account, Yigit Bulut, the adviser, said: "There is a benefit to seek an opportunity to cut interest rates".

"A positive trend may be seen in markets in the 60 days ahead. The only development that could spoil this positive atmosphere is Russia and momentary upsets of the balance," he added.

Economists have argued that Turkey is long overdue for an interest rate rise to rein in inflation and put a floor under the lira. The bank's refusal to do so has helped send the currency to series of record lows.

The central bank's benchmark repo rate, is set at 7.5 percent. Some market participants refer to the repo rate derisively as the "politicians' rate", as it does not reflect the true cost of borrowing.

That is better reflected by the weighted average cost of central bank funding, which hovers at around 8.80 percent.

The lira gained against the greenback after the Fed decision, trading at 2.9335 by 1031 GMT, from 3.0950 late on Wednesday.

Turkish stocks were also trading 0.83 percent higher. (editing by David Dolan/Dominic Evans) 
   RFReleased: 2015-12-17T12:06:32.000Z   COcbturk : Central Bank of the Republic of Turkey | fed : Federal Reserve Board   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Monetary Policy | e1119 : Reserve Assets | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News   REturk : Turkey | usa : United States | meastz : Middle East | asiaz : Asia | balkz : Balkan States | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | eurz : Europe | medz : Mediterranean | namz : North America | wasiaz : Western Asia   IPCSERVICE:C | SERVICE:D | SERVICE:E | SERVICE:M | SERVICE:O | SERVICE:U | SERVICE:MTL | SERVICE:GRO | SERVICE:SOF | SERVICE:OIL | SERVICE:GFN | SERVICE:DNP | LANG:en | OEC | STX | DBT | MMT | FRX | GVD | MCE | ECI | INT | PLCY | EMRG | TR | ASIA | MEAST | SEEU | CEN | LEN | EUROP | ECO | TUR | BACT   IPDBusiness | Economy | Asia | Europe | Middle East | Reports | TURKEY-CENBANK/RESERVES (UPDATE 2) | TURKEY | CENBANK | RESERVES (UPDATE 2)   PUBThomson Reuters (Markets) LLC   ANDocument LBA0000020151217ebch00aca  



 HDUPDATE 1-Risks to U.S. banks from loose underwriting standards rising-Comptroller   WC546 words   PD16 December 2015   ET23:27   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2015 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   
   LP(Adds interest rate increase, other risks, Curry's comments)

By Lisa Lambert
   TDWASHINGTON, Dec 16 (Reuters) - The risks to U.S. banks associated with loose underwriting standards are increasing, the federal Office of the Comptroller of the Currency said in a report released on Wednesday, as the Federal Reserve raised interest rates for the first time in nine years.

With interest rates low, banks have relaxed their standards for lending and the lower quality loans pose dangers to their overall health, the report found.

At the same time, lower interest rates have pushed many banks to reach for yield on their assets, according to the OCC's semiannual analysis of risks to the sector.

"As the economic cycle turns, we see banks and thrifts reaching for yield and growth, sometimes extending their reach at the expense of sound underwriting, strong risk management, and adequate loan loss provisioning," said Comptroller Thomas Curry in a call with reporters about the report.

"In the area of credit risk, the warning lights are flashing yellow. Regulators and bank management need to act now to prevent those risks from becoming reality. We can't afford to wait until the warning lights turn red."

The comptroller's office said risks created by cyberthreats have increased, as well.

The federal office charged with monitoring U.S. financial stability has also warned that rising credit risk could harm the country's financial health.

On Wednesday, the Fed raised the range of its benchmark interest rate to between 0.25 percent and 0.50 percent.

Alongside the risks that have resulted from low interest rates, banks need to also keep in mind that new jumps in rates could create a surge of deposits from savers, Curry said, adding they need to prepare for a variety of scenarios dealing with interest-rate risk.

The comptroller's report found the financial performance of national banks and federal savings associations strengthened in the first six months of 2015 compared with the first six months of 2014, with net income rising 7 percent on higher operating income and lower expenses.

Their credit quality is sound, as well. Total noncurrent loans, those 90 days or more past due, declined for both small and large banks and charge-off ratios are near 2006 levels, the report found.

But looking at the $3.9 trillion of large loans owned by U.S. and foreign banks in the Shared National Credit Portfolio, the report found that the volume of loans classified as substandard increased 18.5 percent from 2014.

Commercial debt is raising most of the alarms, the report said.

The comptroller's office said it is keeping a keen eye on the increase of loans to nondepository financial institutions, such as real estate investment trusts. The firms make loans or engage in bank-like activities, which could lead to a concentration of risk for the banks. Growth in those loans from last year totaled $53.8 billion, it said.

It is also monitoring banks' exposure to the oil and gas sector, loan concentrations in multifamily real estate, and declining market liquidity.

(Reporting by Lisa Lambert; Editing by Chizu Nomiyama and Diane Craft) 
   RFReleased: 2015-12-16T23:27:36.000Z   COootctc : Office of the Comptroller of the Currency   INibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | gcrim : Crime/Courts | e12 : Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCSERVICE:ABN | SERVICE:D | SERVICE:E | SERVICE:RBN | SERVICE:M | SERVICE:ABX | SERVICE:BNX | SERVICE:FUN | SERVICE:U | SERVICE:RNP | SERVICE:DNP | LANG:en | f | DBT | REAM | FINS | BISV | BANK | REGS | US | WASH | HACK | MTG | COFS | MCE | INT | CEN | BSVC | BACT | AMERS | GEN | POL | CRIM | CLJ | FRAUD1 | BNK | FIN | USA | PIA | SCI | OVR | OEC   IPDBusiness | Economy | Politics | Science | Technology | US | USA-BANKS/RISKS-COMPTROLLER (UPDATE 1) | USA | BANKS | RISKS | COMPTROLLER (UPDATE 1)   PUBThomson Reuters (Markets) LLC   ANDocument LBA0000020151216ebcg00yyd  



 HDAsian Shares Retreat as Oil Falls, Fed Euphoria Fades   BYBy Chao Deng      WC584 words   PD18 December 2015   ET02:45   SNDow Jones Institutional News   SCDJDN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright © 2015, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.   
   LPAsian markets opened Friday on a down note after a strong week, as oil fell to a fresh low since the financial crisis and the rally following the Federal Reserve's interest-rate rise dissipates.

Japan's Nikkei Stock Average fell 0.6%, Australia's S&P/ASX 200 slipped 0.7% and South Korea's Kospi fell 0.5%.
   TDThe retreat Friday comes a day after markets rallied to the Federal Reserve's decision to raise interest rates for the first time in almost a decade, a confidence boost about the health of the world's biggest economy. Investors appear to be shifting focus back to some of the factors that pressured stocks in recent weeks, such as the effects of the strengthening dollar on commodity prices, like oil.

"The implications of further energy price declines are clearly putting the brakes on equities at the moment," wrote Angus Nicholson, market analyst at brokerage IG, in a note. "A wave of defaults and bankruptcies in the energy sector still looks likely to come, and these concerns are certainly weighing on markets."

The slide in oil refreshes worries that energy firms will have trouble paying their debts, after a rout in the junk-bond market rattled investors in recent days.

U.S. stocks fell after a three-day winning streak, as energy shares declined.

U.S. oil prices slipped 1.6% to $34.95 a barrel overnight after stockpile data showed no pause in the flood of excess oil. Brent, the global benchmark, fell 33 cents, or 0.9%, to $37.06 a barrel on ICE Futures Europe, the lowest level since December 2008.

Materials and energy shares in Australia were down 2.2% and 0.4%, respectively. Those sectors have fallen nearly 5% and 13% so far this month as a commodities rout deepens.

Liquefied Natural Gas Ltd. was down 8.2% and Beach Energy Ltd. was off 3.3%.

Investors remain worried that the end of a period of near-zero rates at a time of tepid global growth will weigh on emerging markets, including in Asia. Ultralow interest rates have boosted equity markets in recent years.

"It's a delicate balance" that the Fed faces in the coming months in pacing subsequent interest rate increases, said Andrew Swan, head of Asian equities at BlackRock Inc. The central bank has signaled that it will raise interest rates gradually in the future.

Mr. Swan said the firm shifted into Asian equities over the past month, expecting investors to move back into riskier assets as worries eased about the first rate increase by the U.S. central bank. Further bets would depend on whether the dollar continues to strengthen or stabilizes, he added.

The dollar has gained 1.3% against the Japanese yen so far this week, adding to its rise against most global currencies for more than two years now. The Japanese yen was last up 0.1% at Yen122.49 in Asia trade Friday.

Gold prices were up 0.3% at $1,052.90 a troy ounce.

Prices for Brent crude oil were down 0.3% at $36.95 a barrel.

In other commodities, copper prices closed lower, with copper for March delivery down 1.4% overnight on the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange.

Write to Chao Deng at Chao.Deng@wsj.com

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

December 17, 2015 20:45 ET (01:45 GMT)
   COfed : Federal Reserve Board   NSc1522 : Share Price Movement/Disruptions | mnonfr : Non-ferrous Metals | e1202 : Interest Rates | c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Shareholdings | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | nfxacb : Forex Asset Class Basic News | nfxacp : Forex Asset Class Premium News | nmsmc : Main Stock Market Commentary | nsmcm : Stock Market Commentary | c15 : Financial Performance | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e12 : Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | m14 : Commodity Markets | m142 : Metals Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter   REusa : United States | austr : Australia | jap : Japan | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument DJDN000020151218ebci0004u  



 HDCollateral Damage: Fed Move to Take Shine Off Metal-backed Finance   BYBy Biman Mukherji      WC762 words   PD16 December 2015   ET12:39   SNDow Jones Institutional News   SCDJDN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright © 2015, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.   
   LPNEW DELHI--A popular trade that has underpinned demand for several metals during the years of ultralow borrowing costs is likely to become less attractive after the Federal Reserve's expected rate rise this week, another blow for already sagging commodity prices.

The dollar's strength against several currencies this year as the Fed's expected rate increase has become more certain has been a key factor driving prices for metals from copper to aluminum to multiyear lows. When the greenback goes up it makes dollar-priced commodities more expensive for many overseas buyers.
   TDThe rate rise will also make life harder for traders involved in metals-backed financing, a sometimes controversial corner of the market in which dealers seek to make profits having borrowed heavily using metals as collateral.

For Chinese traders, one important element of the trade has been their ability to access cheap dollar-denominated loans or other forms of credit from overseas. As U.S. rates rise, that part of the trade will become more expensive.

As such deals become less potentially profitable, another leg of support for metals demand is being taken away.

"We see quite a rapid diminishing of metal-backed financing," said Robin Bhar, head of metals research at Société Générale CIB. "There is far less demand for copper, gold and nickel for collateralized financing...A big reason has been the reduced arbitrage in foreign exchange and interest rate markets, particularly as the dollar has strengthened and the Chinese yuan has continued to gradually decline."

In one form of metals-backed financing, a trader importing metals might obtain a letter of credit, often from a bank overseas and at a price linked to U.S. interest rates. The bank would then pay the metal exporter for the shipment.

Having taken delivery of the metal, the importing trader could then sell it on before having to repay the bank for its letter of credit. The trader could use the funds from the sale to gain a higher return by buying high-yielding, yuan-denominated investment products within China, where interest rates have long been much higher than in the U.S.

The allure of the trade had already started diminishing after China devalued its currency in August, since when the yuan has kept steadily declining--a trend that the market is anticipating will deepen after the Federal Reserve's meeting this week.

While the Fed looks set to jack up borrowing costs, China has been cutting its interest rates over the past year and may have to do so again soon to stimulate its economy--another factor that could reduce the appeal of metals-backed finance.

Already, the volume of metals being used for this kind of financing is down by around 50%-60% from 12 months ago, Mr. Bhar estimates. "We are already seeing the effect as the market has been speculating about a rate increase," he said.

Metals-backed financing had come under scrutiny from Chinese regulators about a year-and-a-half ago when the same metal stored at a warehouse in eastern port city Qingdao was being pledged as collateral to multiple lenders.

An estimated one-third or more of Chinese metal imports were believed to be used as collateral for loans from China's so-called "shadow banks", a vast network of loosely-regulated lenders, before the Qingdao probe.

Though the trade lost some of its sheen with the investigation that followed, a flight of metals away from Chinese warehouses to nearby locations such as Malaysia enabled the trade to continue, according to traders and analysts.

The metal flow to warehouses in other locations wasn't driven by the decline in China's metal-backed finance alone. Some big trading houses have increasingly turned to using warehouses in Southeast Asia to store metals, given lower fees and less strict regulation.

"Chinese traders have been storing metals in neighboring countries and now with the end of super cycle and the expected rise in the interest rate (this week), the market is up for a huge correction," says Vipon Kumar, Chief Sourcing and Trading Officer, who leads the import and export division at Daymon Worldwide, a global sourcing and product distribution company.

"The metal producers are long on inventories and the freeing up of metal from the warehouses will further add to their misery," he said.

Write to Biman Mukherji at biman.mukherji@wsj.com

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

December 16, 2015 06:39 ET (11:39 GMT)
   COfed : Federal Reserve Board   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | mnonfr : Non-ferrous Metals | ecat : Economic News | gvbod : Government Bodies | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncmac : Commodities Asset Class News | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | nfiac : Fixed Income Asset Class News | nfxacb : Forex Asset Class Basic News | nfxacp : Forex Asset Class Premium News | e12 : Monetary Policy | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | m14 : Commodity Markets | m142 : Metals Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter   REchina : China | usa : United States | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument DJDN000020151216ebcg00179  



 HD*Bank of Mexico's Carstens: To Evaluate Case-by-Case Possible Future Rate Hikes   WC454 words   PD17 December 2015   ET22:25   SNDow Jones Institutional News   SCDJDN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright © 2015, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.   
   LP17 Dec 2015 16:25 ET *Bank of Mexico's Carstens: U.S. Monetary Stance 'Very Important' for Mexico

17 Dec 2015 16:25 ET *Bank of Mexico's Carstens: Fed Managed First Rate Hike 'Quite Well,' In Keeping With Guidance
   TD17 Dec 2015 16:25 ET *Bank of Mexico's Carstens: Orderly Reaction in Emerging Markets So Far Can Be Sustained

17 Dec 2015 16:25 ET *Bank of Mexico's Carstens: Next Fed Moves Likely to Lose 'Mystical' Quality

17 Dec 2015 16:25 ET *Mexico Carstens Comments in Interview After Decision to Raise Rates to 3.25% from 3%

17 Dec 2015 17:05 ET  Mexico's Carstens Says Next Fed Moves Likely to Lose 'Mystical' Quality


By Juan Montes 

MEXICO CITY--Bank of Mexico Gov. Agustín Carstens, who also chairs the policy advisory committee of the International Monetary Fund, said Thursday the orderly reaction so far in emerging markets to the U.S. Federal Reserve's rate increase could be sustained, noting that the coming moves will likely be less transcendental.

"A very important thing is that this first step taken by the Fed had taken on a mystical quality, but I think that in subsequent actions taken by the Fed that characterization won't apply," said Mr. Carstens in a telephone interview Thursday.

Mr. Carstens said the Fed managed quite well its first rate increase in almost a decade, explaining ahead of time and in detail what it intended to do, which contributed to an orderly reaction in many emerging market currencies.

The peso, the world's eighth most-traded currency with a daily volume of $135 billion, strengthened after the widely anticipated Fed decision and closed little changed Thursday at 17.06 per dollar. Other Latin American currencies, such as the Brazilian real, have also strengthened.

"I think that for the time being the solid response can be sustained, but there is constant news that could have an impact on markets," Mr. Carstens said.

On Thursday, the Bank of Mexico raised its overnight interest-rate target by 25 basis points to 3.25%, as widely expected, in a move that most analysts saw as inevitable after the U.S. Federal Reserve began tightening its monetary policy.

Despite record low inflation at home and slow economic growth, the central bank justified the interest-rate rise saying it would avoid further pressure on the peso after a sharp depreciation this year, since the Fed increase is likely to make the dollar more attractive.

Write to Juan Montes at juan.montes@wsj.com

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

December 17, 2015 17:05 ET (22:05 GMT)
   COfed : Federal Reserve Board | imonf : International Monetary Fund   NSm132 : Foreign Exchange News | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | gvbod : Government Bodies | m131 : Money Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncmac : Commodities Asset Class News | nenac : Energy Asset Class News | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | nfiac : Fixed Income Asset Class News | nfxacb : Forex Asset Class Basic News | nfxacp : Forex Asset Class Premium News | nhotbn : Hot Business News | npcdn : DJ Exclusive News - Commodities | npdn : DJ Exclusive News - All | npendn : DJ Exclusive News - Energy | npfidn : DJ Dominant News - Fixed Income | npfxdn : DJ Exclusive News - FX | npqan : DJ Exclusive News - Equities | e12 : Monetary Policy | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | ncat : Content Types | ndj : Dow Jones Top Stories | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | ntop : Top Wire News | redit : Selection of Top Stories/Trends/Analysis   REmex : Mexico | usa : United States | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | lamz : Latin America | namz : North America   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument DJDN000020151217ebch0041n  



 HDFed Rate Rise Raises Questions Over ECB Policy on Euro   BYBy Christopher Whittall and Tommy Stubbington      WC603 words   PD17 December 2015   ET10:43   SNDow Jones Institutional News   SCDJDN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright © 2015, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.   
   LPThe Federal Reserve's first interest-rate rise in nine years sent the dollar slightly higher, but has done little to aid the European Central Bank's apparent bid to weaken the euro materially.

The dollar inched up 0.1% against the euro Thursday, building on a small gain after the Fed announced Wednesday that it will increase rates from near zero to between 0.25% and 0.5%. That does little to reverse a sharp fall over the past two weeks that at one point saw the buck drop around 5% against the common currency. One euro bought $1.0874 in early trade Thursday.
   TDInvestors will now spend Thursday weighing up what the Fed's move means for the euro.

The ECB says it doesn't target the exchange rate. But investors say pushing down the euro has long been one of the ECB's key levers for raising the region's low inflation.

"A soft euro is part of the plan," said Alan Wilde, head of fixed income and currency at Baring Asset Management.

The currency moves have complicated efforts to revive the European economy, where annual inflation in November was 0.2%, well below the ECB's target of close to 2%.

The ECB has reduced its own benchmark lending rate to 0.05% and launched a EUR60 billion monthly bond-buying program, in moves that analysts say were partly aimed at weakening the common currency.

Lower interest rates tend to reduce the attractiveness of a currency, as it encourages money to move into other countries or currency zones in search of higher yields.

For its part, the ECB had already disappointed euro bears earlier this month. The euro had fallen to just above $1.05 earlier in early December on bets that the Fed and the ECB would soon be shifting rates in opposite directions.

The ECB delivered a rate cut and stimulus package at its Dec. 3 policy meeting, but fell short of expectations of more-aggressive easing measures. The common currency subsequently rebounded to around $1.10.

The euro started to fall following the widely anticipated Fed rate rise, with the central bank emphasizing a gradual path of increases. A statement from the Federal Open Market Committee lowered estimates for future interest-rate increases, though not as much as some had predicted.

The Fed's promise of slow rate rises "raises the question of further policy measures from the ECB to combat the stronger currency," said Charles Diebel, head of rates at Aviva Investors.

"Ideally for supporting the eurozone, they'd probably like the currency around parity," he said.

ECB President Mario Draghi said earlier this week that the bank stands ready to use additional stimulus measures to bring inflation back to target if needs be.

Central banks seek to avoid deflation, a sustained and self-reinforcing fall in prices that could stifle consumer spending and growth, making it more difficult for governments and businesses to repay debts.

The ECB lowered the interest rate it pays on commercial bank deposits by 0.1 percentage point to minus 0.3% earlier this month, and also extended its EUR60 monthly bond-buying program by six months until March 2017.

Any upward pressure on the currency is likely to be met by promises of further easing from ECB officials, said Mr. Wilde.

Write to Christopher Whittall at christopher.whittall@wsj.com and Tommy Stubbington at tommy.stubbington@wsj.com

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

December 17, 2015 04:43 ET (09:43 GMT)
   COeurcb : European Central Bank | fed : Federal Reserve Board   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | e52 : Euro Zone/Currency | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | ecat : Economic News | gvbod : Government Bodies | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | nfxacb : Forex Asset Class Basic News | nfxacp : Forex Asset Class Premium News | e12 : Monetary Policy | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter   REeurz : Europe | usa : United States | namz : North America   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument DJDN000020151217ebch00111  



 HDUSD/PHP Slips as U.S.  Interest Rate  Rise Fully Priced In -- Market Talk   WC169 words   PD16 December 2015   ET03:54   SNDow Jones Institutional News   SCDJDN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright © 2015, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.   
   LP0254 GMT [Dow Jones] USD/PHP is down from Tuesday's five-year peak of 47.42 as the dollar subsides before the U.S. Federal Reserve's monetary policy decision later today. The odds of a small increase in the U.S. benchmark interest rate has already been priced in, and if the Fed delivers a statement that suggests it is not yet committed to further rate-hikes, the greenback may retreat significantly. Earlier this week, the dollar had been rising on suggestions by prominent investment banks that the Fed may signal further rate increases in 2016. USD/PHP is now 47.29 from its Tuesday close of 47.34, and is still displaying a bullish technical bias, unless it ends the day below 47.25 and thus out of the Bollinger uptrend channel. (ewen.chew@wsj.com) 


 
Editor JSM 
 
 
   TD(END) Dow Jones Newswires

December 15, 2015 21:54 ET (02:54 GMT)
   COfed : Federal Reserve Board   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Monetary Policy | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | namt : All Market Talk | ndjmt : Dow Jones Market Talk | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | nfiac : Fixed Income Asset Class News | nfxacb : Forex Asset Class Basic News | nfxacp : Forex Asset Class Premium News | nfxmt : Foreign Exchange Market Talk | ecat : Economic News | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | phlns : Philippines | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | namz : North America | seasiaz : Southeast Asia   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument DJDN000020151216ebcg0002p  



 HDTraders Look Past Rate Rise and Focus on Post-FOMC Language -- Market Talk   WC209 words   PD16 December 2015   ET08:12   SNDow Jones Institutional News   SCDJDN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright © 2015, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.   
   LP0712 GMT [Dow Jones] Activity in Asian currency markets appears to be dwindling as traders hunker down for the looming U.S. Federal Reserve FOMC meeting. The likelihood of an interest rate-rise to the tune of 25 basis points, or 0.25 of a percentage point, has been well communicated by the Fed and already factored in, but punters are wary of the chance of a hawkish post-FOMC statement. If the Fed hints that more interest rate-increases may be warranted in the months ahead, it could kick up a dollar-buying storm, particularly against high-yield Asian currencies that are popular with leveraged investors playing the carry-trade strategy. The more vulnerable pairs in the Asian currency arena, such as USD/IDR and USD/MYR, are up slightly, but the risk-sensitive USD/KRW has retreated to close near its intraday low. A hawkish stance from the Fed could be positive for risk-appetite because it would suggest that the U.S. economy is expected to recover at a faster-than-expected pace.
   TD (ewen.chew@wsj.com) 


 
Editor JSM 
 
 

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

December 16, 2015 02:12 ET (07:12 GMT)
   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | gvbod : Government Bodies | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | namt : All Market Talk | ndjmt : Dow Jones Market Talk | nfiac : Fixed Income Asset Class News | nfxacb : Forex Asset Class Basic News | nfxacp : Forex Asset Class Premium News | nfxmt : Foreign Exchange Market Talk | e12 : Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | indon : Indonesia | skorea : South Korea | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America | seasiaz : Southeast Asia   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument DJDN000020151216ebcg000jz  



 HDEuropean Midday Briefing: Investors Cheer Fed Move   WC1,538 words   PD17 December 2015   ET13:08   SNDow Jones Institutional News   SCDJDN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright © 2015, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.   
   LP
 
European Markets: 

European stocks surged on Thursday as investors around the world reacted positively to the Federal Reserve's decision to raise interest rates and the confidence in the U.S. economy that underpinned the move.
   TDStocks in Europe moved higher in early trade, following sharp gains across Asian markets and a higher close on Wall Street in response to the widely expected move by the Fed to end a seven-year experiment with near-zero interest rates.

The Stoxx Europe 600 rose 2.2% by midmorning with gains across the board.

While ultralow interest rates have boosted equity markets in recent years, investors are reassured by the Fed's relatively upbeat outlook on the world's biggest economy and its plans to raise rates only gradually over the next three years.

"What we see today is basically a sigh of relief," said Johan Javeus at SEB Group. "Equity markets are taking comfort in the fact that this is not the path of a rapid hiking cycle, and it will be data-dependent and focused on inflation."

"The messaging around the decision is about as positive as one could expect for investors: a positive economic assessment paired with fairly dovish central bank guidance," said Eric Lascelles at RBC Global Asset Management.

The decision also removes an immediate source of uncertainty in markets.

In commodities, Brent crude oil was down 1.1% at $36.99 a barrel. Higher interest rates usually make dollar-denominated commodity prices more expensive for foreign purchasers, while a larger-than-expected increase in U.S. crude stockpiles also weighed on prices.

Gold continued to decline, falling 0.8% to $1,068 after the Fed decision. Tighter monetary policy typically make gold less attractive to investors as it competes with yield-bearing assets, and the prospect of higher rates in the U.S. has driven the commodity down for much of the year. 


 
American Markets Outlook: 

Wall Street was set for a fourth straight day of gains, as investors read the first U.S. interest rate as a vote of confidence for the U.S. economy.

Analysts said the move also drew a line under the financial crisis for markets.

"Increasing rates while global growth remains lackluster at best may be risky, but the Fed is giving the U.S. economy a vote of confidence and is clearly encouraged by considerable domestic progress with consumer spending growth firm and strong job creation figures," said Russ Mould at AJ Bell.

Futures for the Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 0.3% to 17,710, while those for the S&P 500 climbed 0.3% to 2,069.75. Futures for the Nasdaq-100 index gained 0.4% to 4,676.75. 


 
Forex: 

Selling in European currency markets was relatively muted following the Federal Reserve decision while the dollar continued to edge up early Thursday. The euro was down 0.3% against the buck at $1.0856, while the dollar was up slightly against the yen at Y122.44.

While the Fed signaled it was moving to normalize monetary policy for the first time since the financial crisis, other central banks, including the Bank of Japan and European Central Bank, have continued with easing measures.

Investors will now consider the implications of diverging policy. The European Central Bank needs the euro to fall against the dollar to stoke inflation, and if U.S. rate rises fail to boost the dollar it could prompt the ECB to tweak its own monetary policy.

Many expect the dollar to continue strengthening as the Fed stays the course on raising rates, which may impact emerging market currencies.

In Asia, the yuan's daily benchmark value against the U.S. dollar was again weakened for a ninth day in a row sending spot USD/CNY to a new peak of 6.4828 after closing at a 4.5-year high of 6.4733 Wednesday. 


 
=========================== 
Top Stories: 

Wage Growth Slows Sharply Across Eurozone

German workers received a sharp wage increase in the third quarter, but countries such as Spain and Portugal saw little benefit.

Putin Says Peak of Economic Crisis Over

President Vladimir Putin on Thursday said the government may have to cut the federal budget as the price of oil falls, but he tried to assure Russians that the worst of the economic crisis is over.

U.S., Russia to Press U.N. on ISIS

The U.S. and Russia will jointly push the United Nations Security Council on Thursday to enforce stricter measures to counteract the funding of Islamic State and other terrorist organizations.

AstraZeneca to Buy Stake in Acerta Pharma

AstraZeneca PLC on Thursday said it would buy a 55% stake in biotech company Acerta Pharma for $4 billion, in the U.K. drugmaker's latest effort to rebuild its pipeline. 


 
============================ 
Analysis: 

Fed Rate Rise Raises Questions Over ECB Policy

The Federal Reserve's first interest-rate rise in nine years sent the dollar slightly higher, but has done little to aid the European Central Bank's apparent bid to weaken the euro materially.

Moscow Talks Down Dangers of Fed's Move For Russian Economy

The U.S. rate increase is good news for Russia's financial markets rather than a danger, the Russian central bank's first deputy chairman said Thursday, the Interfax news agency reported.

Bank of England Treads Fine Line on Rates

A key question for Bank of England rate-setters is whether households, still scarred by the financial crisis and laboring under heavy debts, will be ready to cope with higher borrowing costs.

Most Persian Gulf Countries Raise Interest Rates

Most Persian Gulf countries have raised key interest rates, tracking the U.S. Federal Reserve's decision to increase rates, in a bid to keep their currencies competitive at a time of low oil prices.

Generational Split Becomes Spain's Main Political Divide

The left/right split that has traditionally dominated Spanish politics may now be less important that the division between older and younger voter

Cameron Set to Confront EU Over Migrant Benefits

David Cameron, engaged in a high-stakes attempt to change Britain's relationship with the European Union, is at loggerheads over one of his main demands: Curbing welfare benefits for other EU citizens working in the U.K. for four years.

EU Privacy Law Has Broad Implications

The sweeping new digital privacy regime that European Union officials agreed to runs counter to practices that have become commonplace in the U.S., according to several American corporations.

Are You Ready to Buy Bonds From Iran?

Iran hopes to raise hundreds of billions of dollars needed to repair its sanctions-hit economy, but first it must win over global investors who have shunned it. 


 
============================ 
Still To Come 
Thursday, December 17, 2015 
GMT                    Exp   Prev 
1300 US      Alan Greenspan 
             speech 
1330 US      Weekly Jobless 
             Claims     275K 282K 
             Net Chg         +13K 
             Continuing 
             Claims       2243000 
             Net Chg         +82K 
1330 US      Weekly Export Sales 
             Corn         1097.1K 
             Soybeans     1454.5K 
             Wheat         225.1K 
1330 US  Q3  Current Account 
             USD -122.0B -109.68B 
1330 US  Dec Philadelphia Fed 
             Business Outlook 
             Survey 
             Business 
             Activity     1.0 1.9 
             Prices Paid     -4.9 
             Employment       2.6 
             New Orders      -3.7 
             Prices Received -0.4 
             Delivery Times   0.5 
             Inventories     -7.9 
             Shipments       -2.5 
1330 CAN Oct Employment Insurance 
1445 US      Bloomberg Consumer 
             Comfort Index 
1500 US  Nov Leading Indicators 
             Leading 
             Index    +0.1% +0.6% 
             Coincident     +0.2% 
             Lagging Index  +0.2% 
1500 EU      EU Summit 
1530 US      EIA Weekly Natural 
             Gas Storage Report 
             Working Gas    3880B 
             Net Chg (Cbf)   -76B 
2000 US      UN Security Council 
             summit on ISIS and 
             terror financing 
2130 US      Federal Discount 
             Window Borrowings 
2130 US      Foreign Central Bank 
             Holdings 
2130 US      Money Stock Measures 
============================ 
 
Other News: 

VW Overhauls CEO's Team Following Emissions Scandal

Volkswagen AG said it has overhauled most of the personnel in Chief Executive Matthias Mueller's team in the wake of the emissions-rigging scandal that has plagued the company since September.

Turkey Steps Up Operations Against Kurdish Rebels

Thousands of Turkish security forces are converging on the country's Kurdish heartland for what the government is calling a "decisive" military campaign against militants fighting for autonomy.

Switzerland Freezes Millions of Francs in FIFA Probe

The Swiss Federal Office of Justice has frozen millions of Swiss francs worth of cash linked to the investigation into corruption at FIFA, soccer's global governing body.

Finma Bans Six Former UBS Employees Over FX Rigging

A Swiss regulator has temporarily banned six former UBS employees from the financial industry and reprimanded a handful of others, as global investigations into foreign-exchange rate manipulation move toward a close.

Norway's Central Bank Holds Main Rate Steady

Norway's central bank struck a surprisingly hawkish tone in a monetary policy statement, opting to leave interest rates unchanged despite a slowing economy.

France Squeezes Orange With $380 Million Antitrust Fine

France's antitrust watchdog has slapped telecom operator Orange SA with a $380 million fine for anticompetitive behavior in providing services to companies.

Write to tanya.ashreena@wsj.com

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

December 17, 2015 07:08 ET (12:08 GMT)
   COeurcb : European Central Bank | fed : Federal Reserve Board | unscou : United Nations Security Council   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | nenac : Energy Asset Class News | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | nfiac : Fixed Income Asset Class News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters   REusa : United States | eurz : Europe | namz : North America   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument DJDN000020151217ebch001jl  



 CLMU.S. Markets   SEMarkets   HDGlobal Stocks Rise Ahead of  Federal Reserve  Decision; Fed is expected to raise interest rates for the first time since 2006   BYBy Saumya Vaishampayanand Chelsey Dulaney      WC997 words   PD16 December 2015   ET01:21   SNThe Wall Street Journal Online   SCWSJO   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
   LPA reprieve in a two-week-long junk-bond rout helped lift U.S. stock indexes to their largest gains in more than a week, setting the stage for Wednesday's Federal Reserverate decision.

Stock gains were broad based, reflecting relief at the cessation of bond-market turmoil that in recent days had spread to hit the shares of major asset managers amid concern about mutual-fund withdrawals and debt-trading conditions.
   TDInvestors said the rally underscores the broadly positive consensus on U.S. economic growth, at a time when the Fed is preparing to raise rates for the first time in nine years. Many portfolio managers say they believe the shares of U.S. companies will continue to prosper over the next year despite the potential for rising borrowing costs and further strengthening of the dollar, which tends to drive down profits at multinational U.S. firms.

At the same time, traders and analysts said they believe the market has entered a period of heightened volatility that very likely will persist well beyond Wednesday afternoon's Fed decision and into the new year. Investors will continue to grapple with large changes in the relative prices of energy, the availability of financing to low-rated companies and other variables, they said.

The rally was sparked by “people seeing there are attractive opportunities that the selloff has created," said Priscilla Hancock, global fixed-income strategist at J.P. Morgan Asset Management, which oversees $1.7 trillion. “Selloffs like this create a small period of price dislocation, which does provide opportunities for investors who can put money to work."

The Dow Jones Industrial Average advanced 156.41 points, or 0.9%, to 17524.91. The S&P 500 rose 21.47 points, or 1.1%, to 2043.41, and the Nasdaq Composite gained 43.13 points, or 0.9%, to 4995.36. They were the largest one-day gains since Dec. 4

Leading the rally were energy firms whose shares have been thumped during an 18-month-long oil-market rout. Shares of oil driller Transocean rose 74 cents, or 5.9%, to $13.38, while Exxon Mobil added 3.40, or 4.5%, to 79.43. Nymex crude futures rose 2.9% but settled at $37.35 a barrel, their fifth-lowest close this year.

Shares of financial companies rose as well, reversing much of the declines during the junk-bond rout Friday and Monday. Goldman Sachs Group rose 5.61, or 3.2%, to 182.01 and Wells Fargo & Co. rose 1.71, or 3.2%, to 54.91. BlackRock, which on Friday posted its largest share-price decline since 2011, rose 9.94, or 3.1%, to 329.54. A rate increase is expected to boost profitability at banks by expanding the spread between their lending and deposit rates.

Junk bonds rebounded, as investors began looking for bargains. The iShares iBoxx USD High Yield Corporate Bond exchange-traded fund, the largest junk-bond ETF by assets, rose 1.6%. Debt from hospital operator Community Health Systems rose 1.25 cents to 92.75 cents and bonds from telecom Frontier Communications added 1.4 cents to 93.9 cents, according to MarketAxess Holdings.

Few bond traders said they expected the junk market to return to an even keel, however. In part, recent selling reflects questions about bond market liquidity, or the ability to quickly buy and sell securities, and fears that tighter financial conditions could help tip a six-year-long economic expansion toward recession.

A U.S. financial watchdog warned that distress in the junk-bond market could spread to other parts of the financial system, a finding likely to raise eyebrows during a period of market volatility.

In a report Tuesday, the U.S. Office of Financial Research found “elevated and rising credit risks" among nonfinancial businesses and emerging-market borrowers, and it said a significant shock that further impairs credit quality “could potentially threaten U.S. financial stability."

Uncertainty over the path of monetary policy in the U.S. has helped spur stock swings this year, along with worries about the pace of global economic growth and earnings.

Federal-funds futures, used by investors and traders to place bets on central-bank policy, showed an 81% likelihood of a rate increase by the Fed this week, according to data from CME Group.

The Fed has held short-term rates near zero since December 2008, helping to boost stocks since the financial crisis. Many investors say stocks can continue to advance even in a slightly higher interest-rate environment, but overall returns are likely to be lower. The S&P 500 has slipped 0.8% in 2015 so far, after notching an 11% advance in 2014.

Some investors pointed to U.S. inflation data Tuesday as additional evidence that the Fed should raise interest rates on Wednesday. Inflation, along with employment, is a key economic indicator the Fed takes into account as it considers changes to monetary policy.

U.S. consumer prices were flat in November, weighed down by a drop in gas prices. The reading was in line with expectations. So-called core prices, which exclude the volatile food and energy categories, rose 2% on the year. The Fed's inflation target is 2%.

“If nothing else, the core number being up…gives the Fed a little bit more confidence," said Robert Pavlik, chief market strategist at Boston Private Wealth, which manages about $7.5 billion.

Ahead of the Fed meeting, Mr. Pavlik said his firm has been buying into regional banks and insurance companies. Those businesses have been pressured by low interest rates recently.

Chelsey Dulaney contributed to this article.

Write to Saumya Vaishampayan at saumya.vaishampayan@wsj.com and Mike Cherney at mike.cherney@wsj.com
   COfed : Federal Reserve Board   INi1 : Energy | iinv : Investing/Securities | ifinal : Financial Services   NSc1522 : Share Price Movement/Disruptions | m11 : Equity Markets | cjunk : High-yield Corporate Bonds | e1202 : Interest Rates | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncolu : Columns | reqris : Suggested Reading   Investing/Securities | c15 : Financial Performance | c17 : Corporate Funding | c172 : Corporate Debt Instruments | c174 : Corporate Credit Ratings | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e12 : Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | redit : Selection of Top Stories/Trends/Analysis | reqr : Suggested Reading   Industry News   REusa : United States | eurz : Europe | namz : North America   IPDSYND | WSJ-PRO-WSJ.com | Priscilla Hancock | Robert Pavlik | WSJ.com | Today's Markets   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument WSJO000020151215ebcf00232  



 HDPOLL-Economists see next Fed rate increase in first quarter 2016   WC115 words   PD16 December 2015   ET22:03   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2015 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   
   LPDec 16 (Reuters) - Wall Street's top banks expect the Federal Reserve to next raise U.S. interest rates in the first quarter of next year,  according to a Reuters poll conducted on Wednesday.
   TD

A total of 13 of 19 primary dealers, brokerages that deal directly with the Federal Reserve, say the Fed will next raise rates in the first quarter, after it raised the range of its benchmark interest rate by a quarter of a percentage point to between 0.25 percent and 0.50 percent on Wednesday.       (Reporting By David Gaffen; Editing by Chizu Nomiyama)
   RFReleased: 2015-12-19T21:03:10.000Z   COfed : Federal Reserve Board   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCSERVICE:C | SERVICE:D | SERVICE:E | SERVICE:M | SERVICE:O | SERVICE:U | SERVICE:MTL | SERVICE:GRO | SERVICE:SOF | SERVICE:OIL | SERVICE:NAT | SERVICE:ABX | SERVICE:BNX | SERVICE:FUN | SERVICE:MNI | LANG:en | f | STX | DBT | MMT | FRX | ABS | MTG | US | CEN | FED | LEN | GVD | INT | PLCY | MCE | AMERS | ECO | USA | BACT | OEC   IPDBusiness | Economy | US | Reuters Poll | Polls | USA-FED/POLL (POLL, URGENT) | USA | FED | POLL (POLL, URGENT)   PUBThomson Reuters (Markets) LLC   ANDocument LBA0000020151216ebcg00w95  



 SEMarkets   HDDollar Strengthens Against Latin American Currencies; Move comes a day after Fed decided to raise rates   BYBy James Ramage      WC782 words   PD17 December 2015   ET22:41   SNThe Wall Street Journal Online   SCWSJO   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
   LPThe dollar gained against the currencies of Latin American countries, including the Argentine and Mexican pesos, one day after the Federal Reserve lifted interest rates for the first time in nearly a decade.

Investors have long predicted a Fed move on rates would weigh on emerging markets as higher U.S. borrowing costs pressure their currencies, raise import prices and make their extensive dollar-denominated debts harder to service at a time when many economies have struggled to grow amid slowing Chinese demand and falling commodity prices.
   TDThe Fed's rate increase is expected to accelerate capital outflows from emerging markets as rising U.S. yields appear more attractive to investors.

But individual stories in Argentina, Colombia and Mexico have added to their respective currencies' woes, analysts say.

The Argentine peso posted the day's largest losses by far, depreciating an estimated 26% versus the greenback on Thursday to about 13.3 per dollar. The peso plummeted after the country's new government removed currency controls in a bid to stimulate growth and exports. The price move marked the peso's greatest decline in almost 14 years, heading toward its lowest exchange rate to the dollar on record, according to FactSet.

For more than four years, consumers and firms in Argentina weren't able to buy or sell dollars freely, distorting the peso's value and prompting the rise of a parallel currency, said Alejo Czerwonko, emerging-markets strategist at UBS Wealth Management.

“It's been four years of very tight capital controls, so the market is not used to the peso trading freely. It may take some time to get a sense of where the currency is really trading," Mr. Czerwonko said.

The devaluation won't affect equity holdings in the Duet EM Frontier Fund, said Hedi Ben Mlouka, the fund's chief investment officer. This is because the U.S.-listed stocks that the fund holds were already 40% cheaper than the peso-denominated stocks of the same company traded in Argentina, fully pricing in the currency devaluation.

For global investors, Thursday's devaluation has removed one of the uncertainties on Argentina, which would allow the new government to focus on major economic reforms, such as the removal of energy and agricultural subsidies. President Mauricio Macri would also have to face the challenges of reining inflation and securing foreign capital flows, investors say.

“Medium to long term, this liberalization of the economy is positive, but there'll be short-term risk because he's going very aggressively with the reforms," Mr. Ben Mlouka said. The fund, which is part of Duet Group, with $5.8 billion under management, has a 4% allocation to Argentina. “We're looking to build on it, and we will only build when we feel the new policies that are being implemented are taking place in an orderly fashion," he said.

In addition, the Mexican peso slid 0.5%, as one dollar changed hands for 17.0700 pesos, hovering near a record low against the greenback. Falling oil prices, which sit just above seven-year lows, continue to exert downward pressure on the peso.

The Bank of Mexico increased its overnight interest-rate target a quarter-point to 3.25%, as expected, following the Fed and in response to a weakening currency. The peso has tumbled 14% this year against the greenback, and will likely depreciate more as the Fed tightens policy.

Over time, investors predict an expanding U.S. economy would benefit Mexico, which sends roughly 80% of its exports to its northern neighbor.

The Bank of Mexico on Thursday increased its overnight interest-rate target a quarter-point to 3.25%, as expected, following the Fed. The peso has tumbled 14% this year against the greenback and will likely depreciate more as the Fed tightens policy.

Over time, investors predict an expanding U.S. economy would benefit Mexico, which sends roughly 80% of its exports to its northern neighbor.

In other trade, the dollar rose broadly in the wake of the Fed rate increase. The Wall Street Journal Dollar Index, which compares the greenback against a basket of 16 widely traded currencies, rose 0.8% to 90.75, just below a 13-year high reached last month.

The dollar rose 0.9% versus the euro, as the common currency bought $1.0818, on pace for the weakest closing level against the dollar since Dec. 2.

The dollar rose 0.4% against the yen to ¥122.72, heading toward its highest close in a week.

Write to James Ramage at james.ramage@wsj.com
   COfed : Federal Reserve Board   NSm132 : Foreign Exchange News | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | e12 : Monetary Policy | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter   REarg : Argentina | mex : Mexico | usa : United States | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | lamz : Latin America | namz : North America | samz : South America   IPDSYND | WSJ-PRO-WSJ.com | WSJ.com | Foreign Exchange   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument WSJO000020151217ebch0076d  



 HDU.S. labor market strengthening, factories struggling   BYBy Lucia Mutikani      WC738 words   PD17 December 2015   ET17:41   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2015 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   
   LPWASHINGTON (Reuters) - The number of Americans filing for unemployment benefits last week fell from a five-month high, suggesting sustained labor market healing that could lead to further Federal Reserveinterest rate hikes next year.

The sign of underlying economic strength came a day after the U.S. central bank raised its benchmark overnight interest rate by 25 basis points to between 0.25 percent and 0.50 percent, the first increase in nearly a decade.
   TD"The labor market continues to stay tight with demand for workers strong and pockets of actual shortages in many industries. The Fed has achieved the employment part of its dual mandate and this is what triggered the rates liftoff yesterday," said Chris Rupkey, chief financial economist at MUFG Union Bank in New York. Initial claims for state unemployment benefits dropped 11,000 to a seasonally adjusted 271,000 for the week ended Dec.12, the Labor Department said on Thursday.

It was the 41st straight week that claims remained below 300,000, a threshold associated with strong labor market conditions. That is the longest such run since the early 1970s.

The four-week moving average of claims, considered abetter measure of labor market trends as it strips outweek-to-week volatility, slipped 250 to 270,500 last week.

The Fed said in its policy statement on Wednesday that there had been "further improvement" in the labor market and that "underutilization of labor resources" had diminished appreciably since the beginning of the year.

Despite the labor market momentum, there remains no respite for the manufacturing sector, which has been slammed by a robust dollar, deep spending cuts by energy firms, weak global demand and efforts by businesses to reduce an inventory glut.

A separate report from the Philadelphia Federal Reserve showed its gauge of manufacturing activity in the region fell to -5.9 this month from 1.9 in November. It was the third negative reading in the past four months.

Factories in the mid-Atlantic region reported that new orders continued to decline this month, though there was an increase in shipments. Order books shrunk, while inventories increased for the first time in four months.

"The intense headwinds facing the U.S. manufacturing sector continue to linger," said Millan Mulraine, deputy chief economist at TD Securities in New York.

A survey early this month showed manufacturing, which accounts for 12 percent of the U.S. economy, contracted in November for the first time in three years. The weak Philadelphia Fed survey brought it in line with other regional surveys that have been mired in contractionary territory. 

U.S. stocks fell, while the dollar jumped to a fresh two-week high against a basket of currencies. U.S. government debt prices rose.

JOBS MARKET STRENGTH

The claims data covered the survey period for December nonfarm payrolls. The four-week average of claims dipped 500 between the November and December survey periods, suggesting another strong month of job gains. Payrolls increased by 211,000 in November.

"We expect a 200,000 December nonfarm payroll increase, with limited upside risk from a tight claims path," said Michael Englund, chief economist at Action Economics in Boulder, Colorado.

Dollar strength, which has eroded exports and the profits of multinational corporations, helped to push the current account deficit in the third quarter to its highest level in nearly seven years, another report from the Commerce Department showed.

The current account deficit, which measures the flow of goods, services and investments into and out of the country, increased 11.7 percent to $124.1 billion, the largest shortfall since the fourth quarter of 2008.

The current account was also pressured by an increase in remittances, government grants and pensions, and dividend payments to foreign individuals and entities.

The deficit represented 2.7 percent of gross domestic product, the biggest share since the second quarter of 2012, up from 2.5 percent in the second quarter. The current account shortfall, however, is not a problem as the United States continues to attract ample income from overseas.

"With rates of return in foreign economies likely to remain depressed for the foreseeable future, we look for the dollar to strengthen further in the coming quarters," said Jay Bryson, global economist at Wells Fargo in Charlotte, North Carolina.

(Reporting by Lucia Mutikani; Editing by Paul Simao) 
   RFReleased: 2015-12-17T16:41:26.000Z   COfed : Federal Reserve Board   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | ejobcl : Jobless Claims | gjob : General Labor Issues | e1116 : Employment/Unemployment | ntop : Top Wire News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | redit : Selection of Top Stories/Trends/Analysis   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCSERVICE:ORTAO | SERVICE:OUSBSM | SERVICE:OCABSM | SERVICE:RTRFLN | SERVICE:OUSTPM | SERVICE:ORTAP | LANG:en-US | a | f | CEN | ECI | JOB | LEN | MCE | MPLT | MTGFX | NEWS1 | PIA | REP | TRD | USA | WASH   IPDBusiness | Economy | Top News | US | Bangalore | India | US-USA-ECONOMY | USA   PUBThomson Reuters (Markets) LLC   ANDocument LBA0000020151217ebch00hwh  



 HDPRECIOUS-Gold holds losses from biggest dip in 5 months after Fed rate hike   WC536 words   PD18 December 2015   ET02:07   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2015 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   
   TD
SINGAPORE, Dec 18 (Reuters) - Gold steadied on Friday but
largely retained losses made a day earlier when the metal
suffered its biggest slide in five months after the Federal
Reserve hiked U.S. rates for the first time in nearly a decade.
    
    FUNDAMENTALS
    * Spot gold ticked up 0.3 percent to $1,053.96 an
ounce by 0051 GMT as the dollar eased on profit taking following
sharp gains. 
    * The metal slid 2 percent on Thursday, its biggest one day
slide in five months. It is down 2 percent for the week in its
worst weekly performance in six weeks.
    * Gold has come under intense sell off since the Federal
Reserve raised the range of its benchmark interest rate by a
quarter of a percentage point on Wednesday, ending a lengthy
debate about whether the economy was strong enough to withstand
higher borrowing costs.
    * The move sent the dollar to a two-week high on Thursday
against a basket of major currencies.
    * On the other hand, gold saw little interest, with
investors sending the yellow metal to $1,047.25 in the previous
session, close to a near-six-year low.
    * Gold has tumbled 11 percent this year, largely on
uncertainty around the timing of the rate rise and on fears that
higher rates would hit demand for the non-interest-paying metal.
    * Many are predicting further drops. Gold is likely to test
the key $1,000 level soon, technical analysts said. 
    * Assets in SPDR Gold Trust, the world's top
gold-backed exchange-traded fund, fell 0.70 percent to 630.17
tonnes on Thursday, the lowest since September 2008.
    * Hedge funds' net short positions in COMEX gold futures
reached record levels this month. 
    * Other precious metals were all struggling due to the
robust dollar. 
    * Silver held on to an overnight slump of 3 percent,
its biggest one day drop in nearly three months, while platinum
 eased after posting its biggest slide in a year. Both the
metals were headed for weekly declines.
    * With a 2 percent gain, palladium was the best
performer among the precious metals this week, though it did
decline overnight by 2.5 percent.    
    * For the top stories on metals and other news, click
 or 
    
    MARKET NEWS
    * Asian shares took their cue from Wall Street and slipped
on Friday, but were still on track for gains in a week marked by
a depreciating yuan in China and the first U.S. interest rate
hike in nearly a decade. 
    
    DATA AHEAD (GMT)
    0130 China House prices Nov 
    0745 France Producer prices Nov 
    0900 Euro zone Current account Oct 
    1445 U.S. Markit services PMI flash Dec

    PRICES AT 0051 GMT
 Metal            Last      Change  Pct chg
                                           
 Spot gold         1053.96     2.6     0.25
 Spot silver        13.778   0.078     0.57
 Spot platinum      839.24   -4.43    -0.53
 Spot palladium     553.75   -0.05    -0.01
 Comex gold         1053.4     3.8     0.36
 Comex silver        13.75   0.047     0.34
                                           
 COMEX gold and silver contracts show the
 most active months
 
 (Reporting by A. Ananthalakshmi; Editing by Ed Davies)
   RFReleased: 2015-12-18T02:07:50.000Z   COfed : Federal Reserve Board   NSm1421 : Gold Markets | e1202 : Interest Rates | epmi : Purchasing Managers Index | ntab : Tables | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1111 : Industrial Production | e12 : Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m14 : Commodity Markets | m142 : Metals Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mpcsmt : Precious Metals Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | niwe : IWE Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCSERVICE:C | SERVICE:D | SERVICE:E | SERVICE:M | SERVICE:O | SERVICE:U | SERVICE:MTL | SERVICE:GRO | SERVICE:SOF | SERVICE:OIL | SERVICE:AUF | SERVICE:J | SERVICE:ABN | SERVICE:Z | SERVICE:SNI | SERVICE:ABX | SERVICE:BNX | SERVICE:FUN | SERVICE:RNP | SERVICE:DNP | SERVICE:PTD | LANG:en | OEC | COM | US | ASIA | PREMTL | GOL | PALL | SLVR | PLAT | METL | AMERS | PGM | USA | BACT   IPDBusiness | Economy | Asia | US | TABLE | Market Reports | Reports | GLOBAL-PRECIOUS/ | GLOBAL | PRECIOUS   PUBThomson Reuters (Markets) LLC   ANDocument LBA0000020151218ebci00133  



 HDFed's Lacker says four rate hikes in 2016 would be "gradual"   WC272 words   PD18 December 2015   ET21:21   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2015 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   
   LPCHARLOTTE, N.C. (Reuters) - Federal Reserve forecasts pointing to four interest rate hikes in 2016 show what the U.S. central bank means when it says it anticipates raising rates at a "gradual pace," Richmond Fed President Jeffrey Lacker said on Friday.

"That's half the rate at which we raised rates in the last tightening cycle. So that's what 'gradual' means to me," Lacker told reporters in Charlotte, North Carolina after participating in a business panel discussion.
   TDThe Fed raised the range of its benchmark interest rate by a quarter of a percentage point on Wednesday and indicated that further hikes would be gradual. The central bank also said its median policymaker forecast expected the equivalent of four quarter-point hikes next year.

Lacker said he had been in favor of raising rates this past June and was confident inflation would rise "noticeably" toward the Fed's 2 percent medium-term target in 2016 if oil prices and the value of the U.S. dollar stabilized.

"I hope we're not behind the curve," Lacker, who will not have a vote in Fed policy decisions in 2016, said in reference to the central bank's monetary policy.

In its policy statement on Wednesday the Fed said it would probably not begin trimming its massive holdings of bonds until rate increases were "well under way," but Lacker said on Friday he favors reducing the balance sheet "as soon as possible."

(Reporting by Jason Lange in Charlotte, North Carolina; Editing by Paul Simao) 
   RFReleased: 2015-12-18T20:21:09.000Z   COfed : Federal Reserve Board   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | gpol : Domestic Politics | e12 : Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations   REusa : United States | usnc : North Carolina | namz : North America | uss : Southern U.S.   IPCSERVICE:ORTAO | SERVICE:OUSBSM | SERVICE:OCABSM | LANG:en-US | a | f | BACT | CEN | ECO | FED | GVD | INFL | INT | JOB | MCE | NEWS1 | PIA | PLCY | POL | USA | WASH   IPDBusiness | Economy | Politics | US | Bangalore | India | US-USA-FED-LACKER-POLICY | USA | FED | LACKER | POLICY   PUBThomson Reuters (Markets) LLC   ANDocument LBA0000020151218ebci00odt  



 HDCOLUMN-U.S. rate hike is a major milestone for retirees   WC757 words   PD16 December 2015   ET20:40   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2015 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   
   LP(The writer is a Reuters columnist. The opinions expressed are his own.)

By Mark Miller
   TDCHICAGO, Dec 16 (Reuters) - The interest rate hike announced today by the Federal Reserve is a major milestone for retirees, who have been caught between a rock and hard place ever since the Great Recession, with zero interest rates and higher-than-average inflation.

The Fed's quarter-point hike in the benchmark federal funds rate is the first in nearly a decade, and it could mark the start of something good for retirees, who rely on bonds, certificates of deposit and money market funds to generate income.

Rates on these instruments have been near zero - and often negative after inflation - throughout the post-recession era.

Low interest rates have gone hand-in-hand with low inflation. However, inflation is higher for seniors, due mainly to the disproportionate impact of ballooning healthcare costs.

From 1985 to 2014, an experimental inflation measure of senior inflation (known as the CPI-E) ran 5.1 percent higher than what is reflected in the broad Consumer Price Index. according to research by J.P. Morgan Asset Management.

Today's move will not ease the pain. The higher short-term rate already has been priced into the bond market and is not expected to boost interest rates on products like money market funds or certificates of deposit.

And the Fed signaled that it will be cautious about boosting rates further. If rates were, in fact, to rise in the neighborhood of 100 basis points over the next year, and if longer-term bond rates moved in lock step, seniors would get some relief.

"They've been earning zero on their cash, so seeing short-term rates move off of zero certainly is good news," said Scott Thoma, investment strategist at Edward D. Jones & Co.

"No one is saying 'all clear' on a secular long-term rise - and rates can stay lower longer than most people think," adds Tom Anderson, a wealth manager at Morgan Stanley and the author of "The Value of Debt in Retirement."

INFLATION ISSUES

A key issue for retirees is whether inflation is heating up. The Labor Department said this week that the Consumer Price Index advanced 2 percent over the past 12 months (http://reut.rs/1Mf1ZVE), and it was up 0.2 in November, the third consecutive month inflation rose by that margin.

If the trend continues, seniors can look forward to a cost-of-living adjustment (COLA) in Social Security benefits for 2017 after getting no raise for this coming year (http://reut.rs/1JbWV4r). The latest Social Security trustee report forecasts a 3.1 percent COLA next year.

Even if seniors are able to sock money away in CDs or money market funds with slightly better yield, inflation will take its toll. "If you are earning 1 percent and inflation is 1.5 percent, that's no different than earning 1.5 percent if inflation is 2 percent," notes Greg McBride, chief financial analyst for Bankrate.com.

On the other hand, significantly higher interest rates over the next year also could make long-term care insurance and some types of annuities more attractive, since insurance companies look to bond market returns as a key element of pricing.

Long-term care policy premiums have spiked dramatically in recent years, due in part to the near-zero interest rate environment. A 1 percentage point rise in long-term interest rates generally translates into a decline in policy premiums of about 10 percent, according to Al Schmitz, a principal and consulting actuary at Milliman, a consulting firm that works with insurers.

Significantly higher rates also could boost payout rates for income annuities, which are priced based primarily on a buyer's life expectancy. But interest rates also play an important role.

Experts have long argued that immediate annuities (or single premium income annuities) and deferred income annuities should play a bigger role in the arsenal of financial products for retirees, since they provide guaranteed income for life. But a near-zero interest-rate environment has depressed payout rates.

Yet recently updated industrywide mortality projections reflecting greater longevity estimates could counteract any improvement in annuity pricing due to higher interest rates.

"The whole thing could wind up being a wash," said Stan Haithcock, an independent agent who specializes in annuities and writes about them under the moniker "Stan the Annuity Man." (Editing by Cynthia Osterman) 
   RFReleased: 2015-12-16T20:40:21.000Z   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | c172 : Corporate Debt Instruments | e1103 : Inflation/Prices | m131 : Money Markets | nedc : Commentaries/Opinions | c17 : Corporate Funding | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCSERVICE:FWE | SERVICE:ABN | SERVICE:E | SERVICE:U | SERVICE:DNP | SERVICE:FUN | LANG:en | f | FINS | US | CCRE | RTM | LIF | WLTH | FED | BISV | INT | INFL | CEN | MCE | AMERS | ECI | GEN | SOCI | INVS | INVM | DLI | FIN | USA | BACT | ENT | OVR | OEC   IPDBusiness | Economy | Entertainment and Lifestyle | US | Reports | Columns | COLUMN-MILLER/RATEHIKE (PERSONAL FINANCE) | COLUMN | MILLER | RATEHIKE (PERSONAL FINANCE)   PUBThomson Reuters (Markets) LLC   ANDocument LBA0000020151216ebcg00uv8  



 HDU.S. jobless claims fall from five-month high   WC369 words   PD17 December 2015   ET14:30   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2015 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   
   LPWASHINGTON, Dec 17 (Reuters) - The number of Americans filing for unemployment benefits last week fell from a five-month high, suggesting sustained labor market healing that could lead to further Federal Reserveinterest rate hikes next year.

Initial claims for state unemployment benefits dropped 11,000 to a seasonally adjusted 271,000 for the week ended Dec. 12, the Labor Department said on Thursday. The prior week's claims were unrevised.
   TDIt was the 41st straight week that claims remained below 300,000, a threshold associated with strong labor market conditions. That is the longest such run since the early 1970s.

The Fed on Wednesday raised its benchmark overnight interest rate by 25 basis points to between 0.25 percent and 0.50 percent, the first hike in nearly a decade. The U.S. central bank said there had been "further improvement" in the labor market and that "underutilization of labor resources" had diminished appreciably since the beginning of the year.

While claims tend to be volatile around the holiday session, the trend has continued to point to strengthening labor market conditions. The four-week moving average of claims, considered a better measure of labor market trends as it strips out week-to-week volatility, slipped 250 to 270,500 last week.

A Labor Department analyst said there were no special factors influencing the data and that only claims for Louisiana had been estimated as the state implements a new computer program.

The claims data covered the survey period for December nonfarm payrolls. The four-week average of claims dipped 500 between the November and December survey periods, suggesting another strong month of job gains. Payrolls increased by 211,000 in November.

As the labor market approaches full employment, claims probably have little room for further declines.

The claims report showed the number of people still receiving benefits after an initial week of aid fell 7,000 to 2.24 million in the week ended Dec. 5.

The four-week moving average of the so-called continuing claims increased 16,250 to 2.20 million. (Reporting by Lucia Mutikani; Editing by Paul Simao) 
   RFReleased: 2015-12-17T14:30:34.000Z   COusdlab : United States Department of Labor   NSejobcl : Jobless Claims | e1116 : Employment/Unemployment | e1202 : Interest Rates | gjob : General Labor Issues | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCSERVICE:ABX | SERVICE:BNX | SERVICE:FUN | SERVICE:RAST | LANG:en | f | MCE | ECI | JOB | US | MPLT | WASH | LEN | BACT | AMERS | GEN | POL | USA | PIA | OVR | OEC   IPDBusiness | Economy | Politics | US | Reports | USA-ECONOMY/UNEMPLOYMENT (URGENT) | USA | UNEMPLOYMENT (URGENT)   PUBThomson Reuters (Markets) LLC   ANDocument LBA0000020151217ebch00h34  



 HDThree-month dollar Libor rate rises after Fed rate rise   WC138 words   PD17 December 2015   ET12:51   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2015 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   
   LPLONDON, Dec 17 (Reuters) - The three-month dollar Libor rate settled higher on Thursday, a day after the U.S. Federal Reserve delivered its first interest rate rise in almost a decade.

The U.S. dollar Libor rate, which shows the interbank cost of borrowing funds in U.S. dollars, was at 0.56950 percent compared with 0.53250 percent on Wednesday.
   TDThe U.S. central bank's policy-setting committee raised the range of its benchmark interest rate by a quarter of a percentage point to between 0.25 percent and 0.50 percent, ending a lengthy debate about whether the economy was strong enough to withstand higher borrowing costs. [ID: nL1N1441IT] (Reporting by Dhara Ranasinghe; Editing by Nigel Stephenson) 
   RFReleased: 2015-12-17T12:51:46.000Z   COfed : Federal Reserve Board   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | m131 : Money Markets | elibor : London Interbank Offered Rate | e12 : Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | effund : Interbank Rate | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCSERVICE:RBN | SERVICE:C | SERVICE:D | SERVICE:E | SERVICE:M | SERVICE:O | SERVICE:U | SERVICE:MTL | SERVICE:GRO | SERVICE:SOF | SERVICE:OIL | SERVICE:RNP | SERVICE:DNP | SERVICE:PTD | LANG:en | OEC | DBT | MMT | GVD | US | BANK | LEN | FED | BNK | USA | BACT   IPDBusiness | Economy | US | USA-FED/MECHANICS (URGENT) | USA | FED | MECHANICS (URGENT)   PUBThomson Reuters (Markets) LLC   ANDocument LBA0000020151217ebch00eju  


 HDAverage US rate on 30-year mortgages rises to 3.97 percent   WC474 words   PD17 December 2015   ET17:21   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2015.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPWASHINGTON (AP) — Average long-term U.S. mortgage rates rose slightly this week in the days before the Federal Reserve announced a historic increase in its key short-term interest rate.

Mortgage buyer Freddie Mac said Thursday the average rate on a 30-year fixed-rate mortgage edged up to 3.97 percent from 3.95 percent a week earlier. The average rate on 15-year fixed-rate mortgages increased to 3.22 percent from 3.19 percent.
   TDThe key 30-year rate is well above its level of a year ago, 3.80 percent. The rate has increased significantly overall since the end of October, when it stood at 3.76 percent. But it remains historically low at below 4 percent.

The Fed announced Wednesday a quarter-point increase in its benchmark funds rate, to a range of 0.25 percent to 0.5 percent. It was the Fed's first rate hike in nine years. The Fed policymakers coupled the hike with a signal that further increases likely will be made slowly, as the economy strengthens further and inflation rises from undesirably low levels.

The Fed's move isn't likely to drive a jump in the rates that people pay for mortgages anytime soon. The Fed's funds rate — the rate that banks charge each other on overnight loans — has limited influence on home borrowing rates.

The yield on the 10-year Treasury bond, which mortgage rates have been tracking, rose to 2.30 percent Wednesday from 2.21 percent a week earlier. Yields on the U.S. government bonds move in the opposite direction of the bonds' prices. The yield fell to 2.25 percent Thursday morning.

To calculate average mortgage rates, Freddie Mac surveys lenders across the country at the beginning of each week. The average doesn't include extra fees, known as points, which most borrowers must pay to get the lowest rates. One point equals 1 percent of the loan amount.

The average fee for a 30-year mortgage was unchanged from last week at 0.6 point. The fee for a 15-year loan remained at 0.5 point.

The average rate on five-year adjustable-rate mortgages held steady at 3.03 percent; the fee declined to 0.4 point from 0.5 point. The average rate on one-year ARMs increased to 2.67 percent from 2.64 percent; the fee held at 0.2 point.
   ARTFILE - This Monday, July 14, 2014 file photo shows a home for sale in Alameda, Calif. Average long-term U.S. mortgage rates rose slightly this week in the days before the Federal Reserve announced a historic increase in its key short-term interest rate.on Thursday, Dec. 16, 2015. (AP Photo/Ben Margot, File)      COfed : Federal Reserve Board   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | mntdbt : National Government Debt/Bond Markets | emort : Mortgage Rate | gmort : Mortgage Advice | gpol : Domestic Politics | e12 : Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpersf : Personal Finance | gpir : Politics/International Relations | greest : Real Estate/Property | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCw   IPDUS | Mortgage | Rates | AP-US-Mortgage-Rates- | Business | General news | Personal loans | Personal finance | Real estate | Government finance | Government business and finance | Government and politics | Spot Development | AP Online General Financial/Business News | AP Online   PUBThe Associated Press   ANDocument APRS000020151217ebch0074l  



 HDNews Highlights: Top Energy Stories of the Day   WC572 words   PD17 December 2015   ET00:01   SNDow Jones Institutional News   SCDJDN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright © 2015, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.   
   LP
 
TOP STORIES 
 
OIL PRICES FALL ON RECORD SUPPLIES 
 

Oil prices fell to new multiyear lows Wednesday as U.S. commercial crude and refined-product inventories rose to a record. 
   TD
FED ENDS HISTORIC ERA BY RAISING RATES 
 

The Federal Reserve said it would raise its benchmark interest rate from near zero for the first time since December 2008-to a range between 0.25% to 0.50%-and emphasized it will likely lift it gradually thereafter in a test of the economy's capacity to stand on its own with less support from super easy monetary policy. 


OIL PROVISION NOT EXPECTED TO DERAIL SPENDING BILL 
 

House Democrats balked at a provision in a $1.15 trillion spending bill that would end a four-decade ban on oil exports, but their objections appeared unlikely to derail the legislation as other leaders coalesced around the sweeping agreement. 


U.S. CRUDE SUPPLIES UNEXPECTEDLY SURGE 
 

U.S. crude stockpiles rose sharply as refining activity declined, according to data released by the EIA. 


NOBLE'S ASSET SALE MAY STAVE OFF DEBT DOWNGRADE 
 

Noble Group's proposed spinoff of its remaining stake in its agricultural arm, which could fetch more than US$700 million, may be enough to save it from having its debt downgraded to "junk" status. 


BOSCH PROBED AMID VW EMISSIONS SCANDAL 
 

German prosecutors said they are investigating whether employees of auto-parts supplier Robert Bosch helped Volkswagen to manipulate software that allows diesel vehicles to cheat emissions tests. 


RUSSIA COULD SELL STAKE IN ROSNEFT TO BOLSTER FINANCES 
 

Russia is considering selling a stake in Rosneft next year, Russian Finance Minister Anton Siluanov said, as the government looks for ways to plug holes in its oil-dependent budget. 


STOCKS CLIMB AS FED UNANIMOUSLY VOTES TO BOOST RATES 
 

U.S. stocks rose Wednesday after the Federal Reserve said it would raise short-term interest rates for the first time in nine years. 


CALIFORNIA PROPOSES RULES FOR AUTONOMOUS CARS 
 

California unveiled proposed regulations for autonomous cars, a long-awaited step for car companies seeking guidance before eventually selling them to consumers. 


TRUMP LOSES BATTLE TO STOP WIND FARM IN SCOTLAND 
 

Donald Trump has lost a protracted legal battle over a wind farm within sight of his Scottish golf resort, as Britain's highest court dismissed his appeal to halt construction. 


TURKEY LAUNCHES OPERATION IN KURDISH HEARTLAND 
 

Thousands of Turkish security forces are converging on the country's Kurdish heartland for what the government is calling a "decisive" military campaign against militants fighting for autonomy. 


U.S. SPECIAL FORCES SENT TO EMBATTLED AFGHAN PROVINCE 
 

The deployment to southern Helmand province comes as regular Afghan government forces struggle to fight off advances by Taliban militants. 


 
 
 
   ======== DOW JONES NEWSWIRES ANALYSIS AND COMMENTARY ======== 
 
Europe News 
NORD STREAM 2 PIPELINE SPAT TO TEST EU COMMITMENT 
 

Thursday's summit of European Union leaders will elevate to the highest political level a fight over a new Russian natural-gas pipeline that is supported by Germany but strongly opposed by the U.S., which fears could further undermine Ukraine's financial and political stability. 


Gas Markets 
ANALYSTS SEE 41 BILLION-CUBIC FEET FALL IN U.S. NATURAL-GAS INVENTORIES 
 

Analysts expect government data scheduled for release Thursday to show natural-gas inventories last week fell far less than the average amount for this time of year.

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

December 16, 2015 18:01 ET (23:01 GMT)
   INi1 : Energy | i16 : Electricity/Gas Utilities | iutil : Utilities   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | cpstoc : Product Stockpile | mcroil : Crude Oil Markets | ncat : Content Types | nenac : Energy Asset Class News | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | nhhour : Headlines of the Hour | nsum : News Digests | ntop : Top Wire News | ncdig : Corporate Digests | c21 : Output/Production | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | cexpro : Existing Products/Services | e12 : Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m14 : Commodity Markets | m143 : Energy Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ndj : Dow Jones Top Stories | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | niwe : IWE Filter | redit : Selection of Top Stories/Trends/Analysis   REruss : Russia | usa : United States | eurz : Europe | asiaz : Asia | bric : BRICS Countries | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | eeurz : Central/Eastern Europe | namz : North America | ussrz : CIS Countries   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument DJDN000020151216ebcg00446  



 HDEUROPE MARKETS: European Stocks Rally After Fed 'strikes Right Balance'   WC615 words   PD17 December 2015   ET18:20   SNDow Jones Institutional News   SCDJDN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright © 2015, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.   
   LPBy Sara Sjolin, MarketWatch

Banks post solid gains after Fed raises interest rates
   TDEuropean stock markets rallied on Thursday after the Federal Reserve lifted U.S. interest rates for the first time in nearly a decade, in a decision seen as expressing confidence in the strength of the U.S. economy.

The Stoxx Europe 600 index jumped 1.2% to 364.90, marking its highest closing level in over a week.

The rest of Europe also rose sharply. Germany's DAX 30 index soared 2.6% to 10,738.12 and France's CAC 40 index rose 1.1% to close at 4,677.54. Meanwhile, the U.K.'s FTSE 100 index gained 0.7% (http://www.marketwatch.com/story/ftse-100-flies-higher-after-\b federal-reserve\b0 -hikes-rates-2015-12-17) to 6,102.54.

The upbeat mood came after the U.S. Fed late Wednesday abandoned its zero-rate policy and lifted interest rates by 25 basis points (http://www.marketwatch.com/story/fed-enters-new-era-of-higher-rates-2015-12-16). The short-term interest rates had been kept near zero for seven years, marking an unprecedented era in the history of U.S. monetary policy. In its statement, the central bank stressed repeatedly that the pace of rate hikes would be "gradual" to soften the blow to the end of easy money.

Analysts at Danske Bank said the Fed struck the "right balance" with its interest-rate hike and statement.

"Overall, we believe Fed and Chair Janet Yellen succeeded in being neither too hawkish nor too dovish," they said.

"We stick to our view that the Fed will hike three times in 2016 and four in 2017. Thus, we still believe market pricing is too soft and see upside risks to U.S. rates," they added.

Movers: Banks were among biggest advancers in Europe on Thursday. Shares of HSBC Holdings PLC (HSBA.LN) (HSBA.LN) (HSBA.LN) gained 2.1%, Banco Santander SA (SAN) (SAN) climbed 2.6% and BNP Paribas SA (BNP.FR) advanced 1.5%.

Shares of Volvo AB (VOLVY) gained 1.9% after the Swedish truck maker said increased deliveries in Europe (http://www.marketwatch.com/story/volvo-november-truck-deliveries-flat-on-year-2015-12-17) helped offset a large decline in South America in November.

AstraZeneca PLC (AZN.LN) rose 0.4% after the drugmaker said it would buy a 55% stake in biotech company Acerta Pharma (http://www.marketwatch.com/story/astrazeneca-to-buy-55-stake-in-acerta-pharma-2015-12-17) for $4 billion, seen as an effort to rebuild its pipeline.

Accor SA (AC.FR) jumped 2.7% after Standard & Poor's Ratings Services affirmed its rating on the hotel operator and said the outlook is stable.

Data: Business sentiment in Germany unexpectedly deteriorated in December (http://www.marketwatch.com/story/german-dec-ifo-business-climate-index-falls-2015-12-17-54852731), data from the Ifo institute showed. Its business climate index slipped to 108.7, after rising sharply to 109.0 last month. Economists polled by The Wall Street Journal had predicted no change in the index.

U.K. retail sales surged in November (http://www.marketwatch.com/story/uk-retail-sales-surge-in-november-2015-12-17-54853013), jumping 1.7% on the month and 5% on the year, which was much higher than expected.

Wage growth across the eurozone slowed sharply in the third quarter (http://www.marketwatch.com/story/wage-growth-slows-sharply-across-eurozone-2015-12-17-54853248), even as unemployment fell.

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

December 17, 2015 12:20 ET (17:20 GMT)
   COeuruno : The European Union | fed : Federal Reserve Board | novtl : AccorHotels SA   INi66 : Hotels/Restaurants | i665 : Lodgings | i6651 : Hotels (except Casino)/Motels | ilea : Leisure/Arts/Hospitality | itourm : Tourism   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | m11 : Equity Markets | e1117 : Business/Economic/Investor Sentiment | c174 : Corporate Credit Ratings | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | c17 : Corporate Funding | c172 : Corporate Debt Instruments | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter   REusa : United States | eurz : Europe | namz : North America   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument DJDN000020151217ebch002tb  



 HDU.K. Pay Growth Flattens Off   WC568 words   PD16 December 2015   ET11:35   SNDow Jones Institutional News   SCDJDN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright © 2015, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.   
   LPLONDON—Pay growth in the U.K. continues to slow even as unemployment falls, official data showed, bolstering the Bank of England's case for keeping interest rates ultralow even as the U.S. Federal Reserve is expected to raise borrowing costs later Wednesday.

Average weekly earnings, excluding bonuses, rose 2% between August and October, the Office for National Statistics said, the slowest pace of growth since the three months to February. Wages started climbing in the final quarter of 2014 after a six-year-long squeeze on living standards, but figures show they have since lost some steam.
   TDMeanwhile, Britain's jobless rate fell to 5.2% in the same period—the lowest since the three months to January 2006—as the economy created 207,000 jobs.

For policy makers at the Bank of England, Wednesday's data suggests unemployment has space to fall further before increased competition for jobs drives pay growth to accelerate and pushes up inflation, which the central bank is committed to keep at 2% in the medium term by raising or lowering it policy interest rate—currently at a record low 0.5%.

In fact, annual inflation in Britain was only 0.1% in November, fresh figures by the ONS revealed Tuesday, far below the BOE's target. This means rate-setters at the U.K. central bank are likely to have ample room to leave borrowing costs low even if the Federal Reserve announces a rise in interest rates for the first time in nine years.

Many analysts believe a rise in short-term interest rates in the U.S. will push up the value of the dollar against sterling, as investment is set to flow into American assets to profit from higher returns. While beleaguered British exporters are likely to welcome a cheaper pound, it would also mean a rise in the price of imports, pushing up inflation. Economists also suggest officials at the Bank of England would feel less pressured to rise rates once the Fed has taken up the task of becoming the first major central bank to tighten monetary policy since 2011.

Nevertheless, minutes of the last meeting of the BOE's rate-setting panel suggest officials are mainly focusing on the pace of growth in wages to gauge when to take action. Inflation raising back to the mandated target "depends on an increase in domestic cost growth sufficient to balance the drag on prices from very subdued global inflation and past increases in the value of sterling," officials said.

However, the U.K. economy has long been profiting from ever more people joining the workforce. The share of the population over 16 in employment was 73.9% between August and October, a fresh record high, the ONS said. Some analysts point out this is likely to flatten off soon as Britain completes its full recovery from the recession, which could drive up wages faster than expected.

"The rise in the participation rate largely has reflected cyclical factors rather than a sustainable upward trend, and the downward pressure on participation from demographic factors will build over the coming years," said Samuel Tombs at Pantheon Macroeconomics, in a research note.

Write to Jon Sindreu at jon.sindreu@wsj.com and Jason Douglas at jason.douglas@wsj.com

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

December 16, 2015 05:35 ET (10:35 GMT)
   COfed : Federal Reserve Board | onatst : Office for National Statistics   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | e1116 : Employment/Unemployment | ecat : Economic News | gvbod : Government Bodies | ntop : Top Wire News | nttwn : Today's Top Wire News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Monetary Policy | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | ndj : Dow Jones Top Stories | redit : Selection of Top Stories/Trends/Analysis   REuk : United Kingdom | eland : England | eurz : Europe | usa : United States | eecz : European Union Countries | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument DJDN000020151216ebcg0011g  



 HDBank of England Treads Fine Line on Interest Rates   BYBy Jason Douglas and Art Patnaude      WC788 words   PD17 December 2015   ET12:11   SNDow Jones Institutional News   SCDJDN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright © 2015, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.   
   LPLONDON--Now the Federal Reserve has rung the end of an era of ultralow interest rates in the U.S., the next big central bank expected to follow suit is the Bank of England.

But a key question for rate-setters here is whether British households, still scarred by the financial crisis and laboring under heavy debts, will be ready to cope with higher borrowing costs.
   TDBritish central-bank officials have for months been signaling that the time to raise their benchmark interest rate from its historic low of 0.5% is slowly drawing nearer. Yet they remain some way off: The U.K. economy slowed a little in the third quarter, while wage growth and inflation have been persistently weak. Most analysts and investors expect the first move to come late next year. Like their counterparts at the Fed, BOE officials say rate increases will be gentle when they eventually come.

The indebtedness of British households has also been a reason for caution among U.K. bank officials. Britons binged on debt in the run-up to the financial crisis and despite recent efforts at repair remain among the most indebted of their peers.

U.K. households are the second-most-indebted in the Group of Seven advanced economies, with debts equivalent to 156% of their combined annual income, according to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. Canadian households top the table, with a debt-to-income ratio of 166%; the U.S. ranks fourth on the list at 113%, according to 2014 data.

Home loans are by far the biggest slice of the U.K. household debt. Britons owe more than GBP1.2 trillion ($1.8 trillion) in mortgage debt, and many homeowners are acutely sensitive to shifts in BOE policy due to the predominance of adjustable-rate mortgages. Such deals are rare in the U.S., where nine in 10 outstanding loans are fixed.

If the BOE officials ratchet up interest rates too quickly households may slash spending, imperiling the central bank's goal of returning inflation to its 2% target. But move too slow and the economy may overheat.

Mr. Carney acknowledged in a recent speech that sensitivity to rate increases "may be particularly relevant in our still heavily indebted postcrisis economy."

The BOE estimates that close to three-quarters of borrowers would face higher regular repayments in two years' time if its benchmark interest rate rose to around 1.5%. Given the BOE last raised rates in 2007, many have never budgeted for rate increases.

"A big number of households don't know what a rise in interest rates feels like," said Mr. Garnier, a lawmaker in Prime Minister David Cameron's ruling Conservative party who sits on a committee that scrutinizes economic policy.

Economists say that among groups of borrowers who will be most vulnerable when rates rise are low-wage earners, who also face the prospect of planned cuts to benefit payments for working families. Also among those particularly exposed are so-called mortgage prisoners, who own a home but can't easily refinance because of their age, poor credit scores, or because their house hasn't recovered its precrisis value.

Matthew Whittaker, chief economist at the Resolution Foundation, a nonpartisan think tank focused on living standards, said that the current combination of low inflation, low interest rates and gently rising wages, means that 2015 might prove a temporary "sweet spot" for household finances.

"This is about as good as it's going to look," he said.

For the BOE, the current period of low inflation offers a breathing space that officials hope will allow households to get in better financial shape before interest rates need to rise. A survey for the central bank of 6,000 adults by NMG Consulting, published Monday, found family finances improved in the second quarter, albeit remained much worse off than at the start of the century.

Officials are also hoping their message that rate increases will be slow and steady will reassure homeowners they can manage without cutting spending.

Rob Jones, a 35-year-old teacher from London, said "it wouldn't be great" for him if the BOE raised rates, as his two-year fixed-rate mortgage will soon move onto a variable rate and he has already stretched paying back the loan on his salary. "I wouldn't be happy, but I think I would be able to cope to some degree," he said.

Write to Jason Douglas at jason.douglas@wsj.com and Art Patnaude at art.patnaude@wsj.com

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

December 17, 2015 06:11 ET (11:11 GMT)
   CObnkeng : Bank of England   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | gvbod : Government Bodies | m131 : Money Markets | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | nfiac : Fixed Income Asset Class News | nfxacb : Forex Asset Class Basic News | nfxacp : Forex Asset Class Premium News | e12 : Monetary Policy | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter   REuk : United Kingdom | eurz : Europe | usa : United States | eecz : European Union Countries | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument DJDN000020151217ebch0016v  



 HD*Fed Raises Rates After Seven Years at Zero, Expects 'Gradual' Increases   WC894 words   PD16 December 2015   ET20:00   SNDow Jones Institutional News   SCDJDN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright © 2015, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.   
   LP16 Dec 2015 14:00 ET *Fed Officials Project Lower Rate Path in 2017, 2018

16 Dec 2015 14:00 ET *Fed Officials See Fed Funds Rate at a Median of 0.375% at End of 2015
   TD16 Dec 2015 14:00 ET *Fed Officials See Fed Funds Rate at a Median of 1.375% at End of 2016

16 Dec 2015 14:00 ET *Fed Officials See Fed Funds Rate at a Median of 2.375% at End of 2017

16 Dec 2015 14:00 ET *Fed Officials See Fed Funds Rate at a Median of 3.250% at End of 2018

16 Dec 2015 14:00 ET *Fed Officials See Fed Funds Rate at a Median of 3.5% in Longer Run

16 Dec 2015 14:00 ET *15 of 17 Officials Say Appropriate Fed Raise Rates in 2015, Versus 13 of 17 in September

16 Dec 2015 14:00 ET *Dots Suggest No Fed Official Says Negative Rate Appropriate in Coming Years

16 Dec 2015 14:00 ET *Fed Officials See Slightly Higher GDP in 2016

16 Dec 2015 14:00 ET *Fed Median GDP Projections: 2.1% in 2015, 2.4% in 2016, 2.2% in 2017, 2.0% in 2018

16 Dec 2015 14:00 ET *Fed Median Longer-Run GDP Projection: 2.0%, Unchanged From September

16 Dec 2015 14:00 ET *Fed Officials See Unemployment Rate Slightly Lower in 2016, 2017 and 2018

16 Dec 2015 14:00 ET *Fed Median Unemployment Projections: 5.0% Late 2015, 4.7% Late 2016, 4.7% Late 2017, 4.7% Late 2018

16 Dec 2015 14:00 ET *Fed Median Longer-Run Unemployment Projection: 4.9%, Unchanged From September

16 Dec 2015 14:00 ET *Fed Officials See Slightly Slower Inflation in 2016

16 Dec 2015 14:00 ET *Fed Median Inflation Projections: 0.4% in 2015, 1.6% in 2016, 1.9% in 2017, 2.0% in 2018, 2.0% in Longer Run

16 Dec 2015 14:00 ET *Fed Median Core Inflation Projections: 1.3% in 2015, 1.6% in 2016, 1.9% in 2017, 2.0% in 2018

16 Dec 2015 14:00 ET *Fed Announces Detailed Information About Mechanics of Rate Increase

16 Dec 2015 14:00 ET *Fed Sets Interest On Excess Reserves Rate At 0.50%

16 Dec 2015 14:00 ET *Fed Sets Overnight Reverse Repo Facility Offering Rate At 0.25%

16 Dec 2015 14:00 ET *Fed: Daily Capacity For Overnight Reverse Repo Facility Set At Value of Treasurys In System Open Market Account

16 Dec 2015 14:00 ET *Fed: $30 Billion Per-Counterparty Daily Bid Limit For Overnight Reverse Repo Facility

16 Dec 2015 14:00 ET *Fed Will Continue to Roll Over Maturing Treasury Securities and Reinvest Principal Payments

16 Dec 2015 14:00 ET *Fed: All Rate Changes To Take Effect Thursday, Dec. 17

16 Dec 2015 14:00 ET  Fed Forecasts Show Only Small Changes To Officials' Outlook


 
   By Michael S. Derby 
 

WASHINGTON-Federal Reserve officials said Wednesday they expect a more gradual pace of short-term interest rate increases in coming years than they did three months ago.

They also tweaked very modestly their views on the outlook for the economy, according to forecasts released after the conclusion of the Fed's two-day policy meeting. Officials made small changes in their views of future economic activity, and they still don't expect to achieve their 2% inflation rise target until 2018.

In the projections, the median expected federal-funds rate target at the end of 2016 is 1.375%, matching September's projection. The median view of the longer-run level of the fed-funds rate also held steady at 3.50%.

After the Fed's policy committee decided to raise short-term rates from near zero, it stopped offering projections of when officials expect to start lifting borrowing costs. In September, three officials wanted to hold off on raising rates until 2016, and one wanted to wait until 2017.

The December Fed forecasts no longer show any officials favoring negative interest rates, as one did in the September projections, which do not identify which individuals made which predictions.

The Fed's economic and interest-rate projections are updated four times a year.

Fed officials' median expectation for economic growth in 2016 is now 2.4%, up from the 2.3% forecast in the September release. For 2017 the median expected growth rate held steady at the prior forecast's 2.2%, and in the longer run, Fed officials continue to see the economy's growth rate at 2.0%.

Fed officials still see a slow rise in inflation back to their target. The median expectation for inflation next year is for 1.6%, versus the median 1.7% seen in September. Fed officials still don't expect a return to 2% until 2018.

Policy makers are more optimistic about unemployment, which was 5% in November. The median expected unemployment rate for 2016 is 4.7%, down from the prior estimate of 4.8%. The median forecast of longer-run unemployment held at September's 4.9%. 


 
   Write to Michael S. Derby at michael.derby@wsj.com 
 
 

(MORE TO FOLLOW) Dow Jones Newswires

December 16, 2015 14:00 ET (19:00 GMT)
   COfed : Federal Reserve Board   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | effund : Interbank Rate | gvbod : Government Bodies | m131 : Money Markets | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | m14 : Commodity Markets | m141 : Agricultural Commodity Markets | mmuni : Municipal Debt/Bond Markets | ncmac : Commodities Asset Class News | ndj : Dow Jones Top Stories | nenac : Energy Asset Class News | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | nfiac : Fixed Income Asset Class News | nfxacb : Forex Asset Class Basic News | nfxacp : Forex Asset Class Premium News | nhotbn : Hot Business News | ntab : Tables | ntesi : Essential Stock Market Information | ntop : Top Wire News | nttwn : Today's Top Wire News | e12 : Monetary Policy | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | niwe : IWE Filter | redit : Selection of Top Stories/Trends/Analysis   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument DJDN000020151216ebcg002rg  



 HDBuyers Step Into Treasurys -- Market Talk   WC1,256 words   PD16 December 2015   ET20:23   SNDow Jones Institutional News   SCDJDN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright © 2015, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.   
   LP14:22 ET - The Fed's latest signal of a slow path drove buyers into bonds as recent rise in yields attracted buying interest. "I was relieved the first rate increase is out of the way," said Gary Pollack, who helps oversee $12B as head of fixed-income trading in New York at Deutsche Bank's private wealth-management unit. "The Fed is going to be very slow as they indicate they are looking at a broad set of factors. It is hard to see yields rise significantly." The two-year yield was recently at 0.98% vs 0.992% before Fed. The 10-year yield was 2.282% vs 2.296% before Fed. (min.zeng@wsj.com; @minzengwsj)
   TD14:21 ET - US defense companies have enjoyed a tailwind from government pension repayments, and the move to a higher interest-rate environment could further reduce the cost of retiree payouts as contractors earn more on their investments. Jefferies estimates Boeing's (BA) pension obligation would decline $2.4B with a quarter-point rise, compared to a total unfunded status of $17B at the end of 2014. With an average of 85% funding across the main companies, a move to 1.75% for Fed-funds would eliminate their existing deficits. The flip side is export markets will become even tougher as the dollar appreciates. (doug.cameron@wsj.com; @dougcameron)

14:19 ET - The Fed is clearly monitoring overseas developments but doesn't seem too concerned. You can see this in its statement: "Overall, taking into account domestic and international developments, the Committee sees the risks to the outlook for both economic activity and the labor market as balanced." Officials add that they'll take an array of factors into consideration as they look to the future, including "readings on financial and international developments." (sudeep.reddy@wsj.com)

14:14 ET - Some of the congressional budget deal's provisions related to the Affordable Care Act are good news for insurers, analysts say. The 1-year delay of the health-insurance premium tax and 2-year holdup on the "Cadillac tax" regarding high-cost plans are positives, they note. Cowen says the premium-tax move would be particularly helpful for insurers with individual and small-group business. On the downside, Wells Fargo notes the deal "prevents any bailout of the risk-corridor program," which hadn't been expected in the industry but would clearly remain blocked under the legislation. (anna.mathews@wsj.com)

14:12 ET - Bearish traders continued to leave the gold market ahead of the Fed decision, propelling prices 1.4% to $1,076.80/oz, the highest close since Dec. 4. The move higher is a reversal from recent weeks, when gold posted five-year lows as expectations of higher interest rates pushed bearish bets to a record high among fund managers. Now, some traders are closing those wagers and shifting focus to what is likely to happen with gold and the Fed next year. "Traders are betting that it isn't going to be an aggressive announcement, it will be one increase and a dovish tone for next year," says RJO's Bob Haberkorn. (tatyana.shumsky@wsj.com; @MissShumsky)

14:12 ET - Several Fed officials have lowered their interest-rate projections for 2017-8. While the median projection in the quarterly update didn't drop significantly, individual members' projections--the so-called dot plot--in some cases did. Previously, 3 members thought a 2018 Fed-funds below 3% was appropriate; now it's 6. And before, 1 official saw the benchmark getting as high as 4% by 2017. Now, the highest 2017 projection is below 3.5%. (david.harrison@wsj.com)

14:11 ET - Bond yields briefly hit session highs after the Fed raises rates for the first time since 2006, and the 2-year Treasury yield rose above 1% first time since 2010. But the selling is moderate as the rate increase was widely expected. Fed signals slow path of tightening which contains the selling pressure in bonds. Bond yields already rose over past two months, and now some investors booked profit from their short bond wagers. The 10-year yield was recently at 2.3% vs 2.296% before the Fed release. The two-year yield was recently at 0.996% vs 0.992% before the Fed decision. (min.zeng@wsj.com; @minzengwsj)

14:09 ET - Stocks gave back some earlier gains, then reversed course and pushed higher after the Fed's rate announcement. The S&P 500 is now up 16 points, or 0.8%, to 2060. The benchmark was up just 12 points before the 2 pm announcement, and briefly dipped into negative territory immediately after the announcement. Utilities stocks lead gainers with a climb of 1.8%. The Dow Industrials rise 105 points, or 0.6% to 17629. (daniel.strumpf@wsj.com)

14:07 ET - The dollar rose against the euro and the yen after the Federal Reserve raised interest rates for the first time in almost a decade. Higher US rates would make the dollar more attractive as they boost returns on assets denominated in greenbacks. The dollar climbed against the common currency, as one euro bought $1.0890 from $1.0949 ahead of the Fed statement, now down 0.3% versus the greenback for the session. The dollar increased versus the yen to Y122.05 from Y121.79 beforehand, now up 0.3% on the day. (james.ramage@wsj.com)

14:07 ET - The unanimity for raising rates is a huge leadership victory for Yellen. She went into the meeting facing great skepticism about a bump in borrowing costs from Chicago Fed chief Evans and Govs. Brainard and Tarullo. But she got them on board--and that could not have been easy given their concerns about the economic outlook and weak inflation. It may have been the Fed's expectation that future rate rises will be gradual which won them over. Getting those doves on board could add to the view the Fed will do this increase and stand aside for a while. (michael.derby@wsj.com)

14:06 ET - The word "gradual" appears twice in today's Fed statement as the central bank seeks to reassure the public it will move slowly to ramp up interest rates now that it's made the first increase. The statement says Fed officials expect continued moderate economic growth "with gradual adjustments in the stance of monetary policy." And it "expects that economic conditions will evolve in a manner that will warrant only gradual increases in the federal-funds rate." Of course, there's a caveat that the actual path for rates "will depend on the economic outlook as informed by incoming data." (ben.leubsdorf@wsj.com; @benLeubsdorf)

14:05 ET - The Fed cleared up one major mystery today beyond raising rates. It will now allow its reverse repo daily size to rise as high as $2T, saying the effort will be limited only by the amount of Treasury bonds it owns. It says hitting such a size is "highly unlikely" but this appears to be as close to unlimited as the Fed can make it. The Fed offered no guidance on when the program might be shrunk, suggesting the reverse repos could be very big for quite some time. (Michael.derby@wsj.com)

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

December 16, 2015 14:23 ET (19:23 GMT)
   COfed : Federal Reserve Board   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | m1421 : Gold Markets | gvbod : Government Bodies | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | namt : All Market Talk | ndjmt : Dow Jones Market Talk | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | nfiac : Fixed Income Asset Class News | nfxacb : Forex Asset Class Basic News | nfxacp : Forex Asset Class Premium News | nfxmt : Foreign Exchange Market Talk | e12 : Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | m14 : Commodity Markets | m142 : Metals Markets | mpcsmt : Precious Metals Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument DJDN000020151216ebcg002wh  



 SEMarkets   HDTwo-Year Yield Rises Above 1% For First Time Since 2010; Move comes after Fed decides to raise interest rates, marking the end of an era   BYBy Min Zeng      WC685 words   PD16 December 2015   ET23:10   SNThe Wall Street Journal Online   SCWSJO   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
   LPThe yield on two-year U.S. government debt settled above 1% for the first time in more than five years Wednesday after the Federal Reserve decided to raise short-term interest rates.

Selling in the bond market was moderate as the Fed's first rate increase in nearly a decade has been widely expected by investors.
   TDThe Fed's decision had a more subdued impact on the yield on the benchmark 10-year note. That yield initially fell as buyers cheered the Fed's signal over a slow tightening cycle, but it ticked up to end the session higher as U.S. stocks rallied.

“The message is clear from the Fed: the process to remove the punch bowl is going to be very slow and very gradual,'' said Mary Ann Hurley, vice president of trading in Seattle at D.A. Davidson & Co. “It is hard to see long-term bond yields jump sharply" unless global growth gathers speed or inflation flares up.

In late afternoon trading, the yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note was 2.291%, compared with 2.269% Tuesday.

The yield was 2.296% right before the Fed's interest-rate statement.

The yield on the two-year note closed at 1.008%, the highest level since April 2010, compared with 0.968% Tuesday.

The two-year yield, which is highly sensitive to expected changes in Fed policy, has nearly doubled over the past two months after Fed officials sent a strong signal about a rate increase before the end of the year.

The 10-year yield's rise has been moderate because that yield is more influenced by factors other than the Fed's short-term rate policy. Sluggish global economic growth and contained inflation have kept a lid on long-term U.S. bond yields.

Many investors have migrated cash away from short-term debt and into long-term bonds over the past two months to prepare for the Fed's policy shift. The allocation partly reflects some concern that the Fed's tightening campaign may undermine U.S. growth momentum and make it more difficult for the Fed to push up inflation to 2% in the medium term.

The prospect of slow growth and contained inflation makes long-term U.S. bonds appealing, especially with their yields among the highest in the developed world.

Some money managers say downward pressure on commodities raises default concerns for global energy firms and hurts commodity-exporting countries. The slump in junk bond prices over the past year tightened financial conditions. A rally in the U.S. dollar this year has raised the cost for foreign firms to service their dollar-denominated debt, potentially aggravating market and economic stress in many developing countries.

But John Bredemus, vice president at Allianz Investment Management, which oversees more than $600 billion globally, said the Fed's signal of being confident in the U.S. economy and a slow tightening cycle bolstered his preference for corporate bonds over lower-yielding U.S. Treasury debt.

Mr. Bredemus said the sweet spot is investment-grade corporate debt. He still shies away from junk bonds especially following last week's slump, as he is concerned the oil market might not stable yet.

Matt Whitbread, money manager at Baring Asset Management which had $35.8 billion assets under management at the end of November, said a risk for bond investors is that inflation may flare up next year, which would drive the Fed to raise interest rates at a faster pace than many currently anticipate.

Inflation chips away bonds' fixed value over time and it is the main threat to long-term bonds.

Michael Franzese, head of fixed income at broker dealer MCAP LLC, said investors need to gird for potentially volatile trading in 2016 with focus now moving toward the pace of the Fed's tightening campaign.

Write to Min Zeng at min.zeng@wsj.com
   COdavda : D.A. Davidson & Co | fed : Federal Reserve Board | dvdsnc : D.A Davidson Companies   INi814 : Banking | iinv : Investing/Securities | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services | i831 : Financial Investments | i83101 : Investment Banking   NSc172 : Corporate Debt Instruments | e212 : Government Borrowing | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | e1202 : Interest Rates | gpol : Domestic Politics | mcpdbt : Corporate Debt/Bond Markets | c17 : Corporate Funding | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e12 : Monetary Policy | e21 : Government Finance | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPDSYND | WSJ-PRO-WSJ.com | Mary Ann Hurley | WSJ.com | Credit Markets   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument WSJO000020151216ebcg00209  



 HDGE's Immelt Backs Yellen on Rate Increase -- Market Talk   WC1,530 words   PD17 December 2015   ET00:26   SNDow Jones Institutional News   SCDJDN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright © 2015, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.   
   LP1824 ET -- Count General Electric CEO Jeff Immelt as one businessman who thinks the Federal Reserve was right to raise interest rates. "I think to a certain extent, having 10 years with no interest rate increases is unnatural," he told reporters after presenting GE's annual outlook meeting in New York. "So I thought the way they did it, they way they communicated it, things like that, makes sense. And I think what's difficult is there's just nothing inflationary. And I think that makes it harder for the regulators to figure out what to do." (ted.mann@wsj.com)
   TD2326 [Dow Jones] Australia's selfies--self-managed superannuation pension funds--had a horrible time in Aussie equities this year. Credit Suisse estimates they collectively endured a combined capital loss of A$40 billion (US$28.82 billion) in the June- and September-ended quarters and are on track to lose a further A$7 billion in the current quarter. As a result, the weight of selfies in Australia's A$2 trillion pension pool is coming down. Still, Credit Suisse notes selfies remain important investors in the country's equities, owning 16% of the market versus 11% for retail funds and 7% for industry funds. Selfies have committed A$13 billion to the asset class in 12 months, more than any other group of investors, and they are growing in numbers. Selfies also help underpin the dividend trade in Australia, Credit Suisse adds. (robb.stewart@wsj.com; Twitter: @RobbMStewart)

2314 GMT -- The USD/JPY will likely remain firm on improvement in risk sentiment that may give a boost to Asian stocks, positioning the pair (now at 122.38) to move in a 121.60-122.60 range during Asia trade, says Osao Iizuka, head of FX trading at Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank. "The market reaction (to the Fed's decision) has been fairly calmer than we expected. Many people assumed the dollar would sell but we don't see it," says Iizuka. But the pair's upside will be limited as investors await the BOJ policy setting meeting Thursday and Friday, he says. The EUR/USD is tipped in a 1.0850-1.0950 range and is now at 1.0877. (hiroyuki.kachi@wsj.com)

2312 GMT -- Bell Potter drops Capitol Health Ltd. (CAJ.AU) to sell from buy and slashes its price target by 56% to 23 Australian cents/share (17 cents/share), because it believes the X-ray and diagnostics company has been bloodied by the federal government's proposed changes to bulk-billing incentives for medical imaging services. Capitol Health bulk bills the vast majority of its services, meaning its revenue and profit is more exposed to the changes than many of its competitors. "These announcements represent crucial changes for Capitol Health's earnings from FY17 and indeed its business model," Bell Potter says. "FY17 earnings are downgraded 52% based on our preliminary estimates of the earnings impact from these announcements." CAJ last traded at A$0.24. (david.winning@wsj.com; @dwinningWSJ)

18:01 ET - Fears about the junk-bond plunge aren't phasing Janet Yellen much. In a press conference after the Federal Reserve moved to raise interest rates, the Fed chairwoman pointed to falling oil prices as the key reason for problems in the high-yield market. She added that deep troubles at a mutual fund run by Third Avenue Management were not indicative of broader issues. Ms. Yellen pointed to conditions that likely will support growth for the economy and said the Fed would continue to track developments in the junk-bond market. Last Thursday, Third Avenue, founded by legendary vulture investor Martin Whitman, moved to bar investor withdrawals while it placed the credit fund's assets in a trust that would be liquidated over time, highlighting the severity of the monthslong junk-bond plunge sweeping Wall Street.(gregory.zuckerman@wsj.com; @GZuckerman)

2259 GMT [Dow Jones] Forecasts for a severe drought in parts of Southeast Asia and Australia next year could spark a surge in inflation led by higher food prices, says Steen Jakobson, chief economist at Denmark-based Saxo Bank. "Lower yields across agricultural commodities will curb supply at a time when demand is still increasing on the back of global economic expansion," he says, adding agriculture prices--as measured by the Bloomberg Agriculture Spot Index--could rise by 40%. (vera.sprothen@wsj.com; Twitter: @verasydney)

2258 GMT -- The USD/JPY (now at 122.21) looks set to remain steady and may test 123 during Asia trade, after the Fed decision to raise rates, says IG Securities market analyst Junichi Ishikawa. Tokyo stocks may gain on U.S. stocks' solid performance (DJIA +224 points) to power the pair's upside momentum. "The possibility is high for the dollar to test Y123," says Ishikawa. But Fed's gradual policy-tightening path along with unstable commodity prices may cause unwinding of USD long position later this month, Ishikawa warns. Focus is how China stocks would perform today in reaction to oil price falloff overnight (due to an increase in U.S. commercial crude and refined-product inventories), says Ishikawa, who tips the pair downside support at 121.00. (hiroyuki.kachi@wsj.com)

17:58 ET - Some big drug makers say the Fed's modest interest rate hike was unlikely to have a big effect on their businesses and financial decisions. Johnson & Johnson (JNJ): "We manage our business for the long term and recognize that changing interest rates are part of the normal course of doing business. Our strong balance sheet gives us the financial flexibility to manage through dynamic global economic conditions. In the near term, an initial small change in interest rates is unlikely to have a significant impact on our business." Eli Lilly (LLY): "We would say this initial increase has been long anticipated, and continued gradual upward moves will not have a meaningful impact on our decision making." (peter.loftus@wsj.com, @Loftus)

2252 GMT [Dow Jones] The New Zealand economy isn't out of the woods yet, despite showing 0.9% quarterly growth in GDP, says Capital Economics. Paul Dales, chief economist for Australia and New Zealand, says the NZ economy has yet to feel the full force of a dairy price slump. As a result, he expects growth to be weaker in the fourth quarter and for most of next year. Still, Capital Economics now expects New Zealand's full-year GDP growth to be around 2.3%, up from the 2.0% it had previously forecast. (kate.geenty@wsj.com)

1751 EST -- In case you were napping, the Fed raised interest rates this afternoon after holding them near zero since December 2008. They've been that way because the economy has been in a... slumber, if you will. Lots of ways to describe the Fed move--Rip Van Winkle references, maybe, or a zombie metaphor should you prefer--but lots of people seem to have settled on just one: "The Fed Awakens." At least two bank research notes today, from Bank of America and Barclays, used the phrase. A search of Google news finds 6,137 recent news articles using it as well. Perhaps there is a large intersection in the Venn diagram of interest rate policy wonks and "Star Wars" nerds--after all, "The Force Awakens" opens Friday. (christian.berthelsen@wsj.com; james.ramage@wsj.com)

17:50 ET - The skinny on Apple (AAPL) shutting down analytics service Topsy is that no one can beat Twitter when it comes to analyzing its own data. Shortly after Apple bought Topsy, a company that analyzes the Twitter data firehose for trends, Twitter (TWTR) bought Topsy rival Gnip. Once Twitter got into the business of selling analytics on its own data, it was nearly impossible for rivals to compete. That's why DataSift, the third rival in the cluster of companies known as Twitter data resellers, began analyzing Facebook (FB) data afterward, dropping the Twitter firehose entirely. (elizabeth.dwoskin@wsj.com; @lizzadwoskin)

2249 GMT -- New Zealand's 3Q GDP growth of 0.9% was slightly stronger than expected and a "bit of payback" from a soft first half of the year, ASB chief economist Nick Tuffley says. Tuffley notes some encouraging detail, such as services and investment demand, that hints at more resilience in the economy than expected. However, he adds that growth on a per capita basis was very subdued. "If it weren't for strong tourist activity the NZ economy would be in a vulnerable position as we head into a dairy downturn," he says. Tuffley expects quarterly growth to continue at a rate of 0.8%, but this isn't likely to be strong enough to change the inflation outlook significantly. He thinks the Reserve Bank of New Zealand will cut the official cash rate a further 50 basis points from June next year, to 2%. (kate.geenty@wsj.com)

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

December 16, 2015 18:26 ET (23:26 GMT)
   COfed : Federal Reserve Board   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | gvbod : Government Bodies | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | namt : All Market Talk | ndjmt : Dow Jones Market Talk | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | nfiac : Fixed Income Asset Class News | nfxacb : Forex Asset Class Basic News | nfxacp : Forex Asset Class Premium News | e12 : Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter   REaustr : Australia | usa : United States | usct : Connecticut | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | namz : North America | use : Northeast U.S. | usnew : New England   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument DJDN000020151216ebcg0048y  

 Page 1 of 1     © 2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.


 

 Page 1     © 2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.

