 


 HDSwiss central bank welcomes  Federal Reserve  rate rise   BYRalph Atkins in Bern    WC485 words   PD15 December 2016   ET14:03   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2016 The Financial Times Ltd. All rights reserved. Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the web. 
   LPSwitzerland’s central bank has welcomed the Federal Reserve’s latest interest rate increase as a “positive sign” of the US leading the world from the exceptional interest rate policies of the financial crisis years.

As the world’s main central banks have sought to boost economic growth with historically low interest rates, the Swiss National Bank has battled to prevent a strong Swiss franc pushing the affluent Alpine economy into recession.
   TDAt minus 0.75 per cent, the SNB has one of the lowest policy interest rates of any central bank.

But the dollar’s recent appreciation has eased some of the pressure on Thomas Jordan, SNB chairman, raising hopes that the US will help to normalise global monetary conditions. “I believe is it is a very positive sign that the world is moving in that direction,” Mr Jordan said in Bern on Thursday.

His comments came as the SNB’s latest quarterly policymaking meeting left Swiss official interest rates unchanged and the bank pledged to “remain active in the foreign exchange market as necessary”. As a result of foreign exchange intervention to try to control the Swiss franc’s rise, the SNB’s balance sheet has swollen to more than SFr700bn this year — larger than Switzerland’s gross domestic product.

However, Mr Jordan noted that the US economy was ahead of the rest of the world in the economic cycle and warned it was “unclear what direction economic policy in the US will take following the presidential election”.

He did not rule out the SNB yet having to push interest rates even further into negative territory.

While a stronger US dollar is a relief for the SNB, the Swiss currency has strengthened against the euro following last week’s European Central Bank decision to extend its quantitative easing programme. “It would be more helpful if the ECB was moving in the same direction [as the Fed], which won’t be for some time,” said Maxime Botteron, an economist at Credit Suisse.

The SNB appeared to hint it might in future put less weight on the franc’s value against the euro, saying its currency market intervention would take “the overall currency situation into consideration”. But Mr Jordan denied the additional wording amounted to a change in strategy.

Nadia Gharbi, an economist at Pictet in Geneva, said: “The SNB might tolerate a slightly stronger Swiss franc against the euro. But the environment remains challenging, in particular in Europe, and the SNB is far from normalising its monetary policy — in contrast to the Fed.”

The SNB lowered slightly to 0.1 per cent and 0.5 per cent its forecasts for Swiss inflation next year and 2018. Mr Jordan said the revisions reflected weaker than expected recent inflation data. The Swiss economy is expected to grow by 1.5 per cent this year and next.
   COfed : Federal Reserve Board   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | e12 : Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter   REswitz : Switzerland | usa : United States | dach : DACH Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTCOM00020161215eccf006va  



 HDKey global  interest rate  nears 1% for first time since 2009   BYJoe Rennison and Eric Platt in New York    WC683 words   PD16 December 2016   ET19:10   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2016 The Financial Times Ltd. All rights reserved. Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the web. 
   LPThe global benchmark interest rate for trillions of dollars of corporate loans, credit cards and derivative contracts is approaching 1 per cent for the first time since the US emerged from recession, as global markets reach the end of a turbulent week.

With the US Federal Reserve anticipating greater US economic strength in 2017, this has pushed the dollar to a 14-year high and spurred further selling across bond markets. The policy-sensitive two-year US Treasury note yield approached 1.3 per cent this week for the first time since 2009, after the US central bank indicated that it may raise borrowing costs three times during 2017, up from a prior forecast of two tightenings.
   TDAlongside the bearish shift in bond markets, the stage has been set for higher borrowing costs for companies, with a key short-term US dollar money market rate, the three month Libor, climbing to a seven-year high of 0.997 per cent on Friday.

Analysts at Bank of America Merril Lynch expect Libor will set modestly higher through the end of the year, with the three-month ending 2016 between 1 and 1.05 per cent.

As rates rise, a flood of money has found its way into loan funds, as investors seek out the higher income paid by floating rate loans, unlike fixed rate debt. Bank loan funds have counted more than $3bn of inflows over the past two weeks, the greatest haul for a two-week period in more than three years, according to data from EPFR.

“Investors are saying we’ve got a new interest rate environment, [Libor] will be trending higher for a while. Let’s find leveraged loans,” said Daniel Kelsh, fixed-income strategist at UBS Wealth Management Americas.

US Libor forms the base for most leveraged loans, with companies agreeing to pay a fixed cost above the rate based on their creditworthiness.

A Libor setting above 1 per cent will break through one of the so-called “Libor floors” that gained widespread use after the financial crisis. The floors, which guarantee Libor at a certain level and provide minimum returns for leveraged loans, were introduced to make the loan market more appealing to investors after Libor tumbled in 2009.

As Libor sets higher, the floors are eroding payments in bonds backed by leveraged loans known as collateralised loan obligations.

The 1 per cent Libor floors provided an added pick-up to so called “equity holders” who hold the riskiest portion of the underlying loans in CLOs and are rewarded with the remaining income generated by the loans after other investors have been paid.

More than 60 per cent of loans in the S&P/LSTA Leverage Loan index contain a Libor floor of 1 per cent, amounting to $545bn of obligations, according to S&P Global Market Intelligence.

However, the gains have been eroded as the benchmark interest rate has climbed towards the floor.

“You would have reaped a huge benefit from the floor effect over the past few years,” said Chris Acito, chief executive at Gapstow Capital Partners.

In contrast with the US this week, short-dated German bond yields fell to fresh negative lows as investors sought debt that could become eligible for the European Central Bank’s quantitative easing programme.

The yield on Germany’s two-year schatz, which moves in the opposite direction to its price, fell two basis points to minus 0.8 per cent on Friday — its lowest on record — reflecting higher demand after the ECB said it was removing a yield floor of minus 0.4 per cent on its purchases of sovereign debt at its recent monthly policy meeting.

Under the initial terms of its quantitative easing programme, the ECB was limited to buying government bonds yielding above -0.4 per cent and between a 2-30 year maturity. It has now scrapped the yield floor and extended its minimum maturity to one-year.

Additional reporting by Mehreen Khan and Elaine Moore

 
   COboasl : Bank Of America Merrill Lynch International Ltd | fed : Federal Reserve Board | ncnbco : Bank of America Corporation   INi814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | m131 : Money Markets | clever : Leveraged Loans | c17 : Corporate Funding | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e12 : Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTCOM00020161216eccg008eu  



 HDFed sees three rate rises in 2017   BYSam Fleming in Washington and Eric Platt in New York    WC1,018 words   PD14 December 2016   ET22:33   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2016 The Financial Times Ltd. All rights reserved. Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the web. 
   LPThe Federal Reserve has raised short-term interest rates for the second time in a decade and forecast a faster pace of tightening in the coming year, as it responds to a US economy that has been gathering momentum and may receive further stimulus from Republican tax cuts. 

With the US on the cusp of full employment and inflation gradually approaching the Fed’s target, the central bank raised the target range for its federal funds rate by a quarter-point to 0.5-0.75 per cent, as was widely expected in the financial markets.
   TDFollowing a long procession of downgrades to its interest-rate forecasts in recent quarters, the central bank’s policymakers pencilled in a median projection of three quarter-point increases for 2017, up from two previously. 

The decision to lift rates on Wednesday, which was unanimous, came in the Fed’s final meeting before president-elect Donald Trump is due to take office, and as Republicans contemplate tax-cutting plans that could add further fuel to the recovery. 

Janet Yellen, Fed chair, told a press conference that the rate increase was a “reflection of the confidence we have in the progress the economy has made and our judgment that that progress will continue. The economy has proven to be remarkably resilient”.

However, she also played down the scale of the forecast changes, calling the new interest-rate outlook a “modest adjustment” by some of the Fed’s policymakers. “We continue to expect the evolution of the economy will warrant only gradual increases [in interest rates],” Ms Yellen said. 

While the Fed chair was repeatedly pushed to discuss the impact of Republican tax and spending plans on the Fed, not all policymakers had factored the prospect of fiscal changes into their new outlooks. “We are operating under a cloud of uncertainty at the moment,” she said.

“Changes in fiscal policy or other economic policies could potentially affect the economic outlook,” she added. “Of course, it is far too early to know how these policies will unfold. Moreover, changes in fiscal policy are only one of the many factors that can influence the outlook in the appropriate course of monetary policy.”

Treasuries slid after the decision, with the yield on the two-year note climbing 10 basis points to 1.26 per cent. Selling was concentrated in the front of the yield curve, most sensitive to changes in monetary policy.

US equity markets weakened, with the S&P 500 falling 0.8 per cent, while the Dow slipped away from the closely watched 20,000 level.

The dollar strengthened, buoyed by the faster than expected projected pace of tightening as US policy diverges further from Europe and Japan. Commodities slipped, with gold falling $16 to $1,142 a troy ounce, while Brent crude dropped 3.4 per cent to $53.81 a barrel.

The Fed has repeatedly overestimated the pace at which it would be able to tighten policy, and spent 2016 engaged in a gloomy rethink of the economy’s longer-term growth outlook. 

However, market expectations of the growth and inflation outlook have been transformed by the prospects of a fiscal stimulus by the next administration and Congressional Republicans, prompting markets to pencil in a steeper pace of Fed tightening before this week’s policy meeting. 

Even before any fiscal expansion by the Republicans, recent data suggest the Fed is already closing in on its employment and inflation goals. Steady hiring has driven the unemployment rate to just 4.6 per cent as of November — below Fed policymakers’ median estimate of its long-run rate. And inflation as measured by the personal consumption expenditures price index excluding food and fuel is at 1.7 per cent, not far from the Fed’s 2 per cent target. 

Ms Yellen denied the Fed risked falling behind the curve in lifting rates, pointing out that inflation remains below the Fed’s goal.

Nevertheless, Fed policymakers’ latest so-called dot plot projections suggest they expect rates to rise faster than the glacial, once-a-year pace set in the past two years. The Fed’s new interest-rate projection for 2017 had the median interest rate centred at 1.375 per cent, compared with 1.125 per cent in the September forecast. 

The median forecast was at 2.125 per cent in 2018, compared with 1.875 per cent previously, and 2.875 per cent in 2019, compared with 2.625 per cent in the last forecasting round. The median projection for the longer-run interest rate was lifted to 3 per cent, reversing its previous, seemingly inexorable decline. 

Unemployment will fall to 4.5 per cent in 2017 and stay there until 2019, according to the median prediction in Fed policymakers’ latest forecasts. That is comfortably below the 4.8 per cent longer-run projection for joblessness.

When the Fed raised rates for the first time in the current recovery this time last year it predicted no fewer than four rate increases in the course of 2016. In the event it has delivered only one. That is in part because the central bank reassessed how much stimulus was needed to keep growth on an even keel. 

Its economic outlook on Wednesday was only marginally more positive than in September, with growth of 2.1 per cent forecast for 2017, up from 2 per cent. Its projection remained at 2 per cent in 2018 and was lifted slightly to 1.9 per cent in 2019.

Core inflation will hit 1.9 per cent next year and 2 per cent in 2018, according to the median forecast. However, the Fed also noted that market measures of inflation expectations were low despite recent increases as it reiterated its guidance that future rate increases would remain gradual. 

Brian Jacobsen, chief portfolio strategist at Wells Fargo Funds, said: “If the Fed is going to hasten the pace of rate hikes, that could lead to reasonably higher yields and be a headwind for equity markets.”
   COfed : Federal Reserve Board   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | e211 : Government Budget/Taxation | effund : Interbank Rate | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News | e12 : Monetary Policy | e21 : Government Finance   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTCOM00020161214ecce009ey  



 HDYellen’s Fed sends a wake-up call to complacent bond market   BYEric Platt and Joe Rennison in New York    WC1,046 words   PD15 December 2016   ET14:28   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2016 The Financial Times Ltd. All rights reserved. Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the web. 
   LP“If they’ve managed to sleep through the night, bonds traders in the US will have quite a shock when they check their screens in the morning,” Mohamed El-Erian, chief economic adviser at Allianz, tweeted early on Thursday.

Wall Street bond traders and investors will have turned in on Wednesday night already jolted by the Federal Reserve, which under Janet Yellen’s leadership has become synonymous with caution on interest rates, delivering a more aggressive path for borrowing costs in 2017 than most expected.
   TDThe entrenched complacency in the $13tn bond market about the US central bank’s likely message was clear in the reaction that followed. Less than 24 hours after the Fed unveiled its projections for where its key short-term rate will be over the next three years and Ms Yellen gave her press conference, the yield on the policy sensitive two-year note surged from 1.16 per cent to 1.30 per cent — its highest level since 2009.

The pain administered by Ms Yellen is not the first dose the bond market has had to swallow of late. Donald Trump’s shock US election victory in early November helped vanquish a historic rally in sovereign bonds, as investors bought into the property mogul’s promise to get the US economy humming. Yesterday’s Fed surprise was that officials’ upward revision to their projected path for interest rates appeared to reflect some sense that the combination of Mr Trump and a Republican-controlled Congress will be able to cut taxes and ease fiscal policy.

“The surprise and what the market is reacting to is that most people expected a wait-and-see stance from the [Fed] in terms of how they would consider the impact of Trumponomics in the year ahead,” says Ian Lyngen, a strategist with BMO Capital Markets.

A widely anticipated rise in the federal funds rate to between 0.5 and 0.75 per cent — only the second from the central bank since the financial crisis — was overshadowed by the Fed rate setters forecasting three rises next year. That was up from a September meeting when their dot plot — which charts where individual policymakers think the Fed funds rate will end the next three years — had pencilled in just two. They also lifted their long-term view of where rates will find equilibrium.

“We have opened the door” to a faster tightening cycle, says Scott Minerd, chief investment officer of Guggenheim Investments. “If the data continue to come in how we expect, the Fed will have to move faster than people were expecting.”

In sharp contrast to most of the year, investors now also appear to be taking the Fed’s intention to raise rates multiples times in 2017 more seriously. Interest rate futures are pricing in almost three quarter-point rate increases by the end of next year.

“The bond market was negatively surprised by the Fed rhetoric and the upward revisions of the ‘dots’,” says Markus Allenspach, head of fixed income research at Julius Baer.

Given the uncertainty surrounding Mr Trump’s plan to boost government spending and reduce both corporate and personal income tax, some investors had anticipated a far more cautious tone from the Fed and no change in the trajectory of future increases. However, a return of momentum in the US economy that began before the election emboldened policymakers, with Ms Yellen saying she expected progress to continue.

The sell-off in the bond market was not just confined to sovereigns, with knock-on effects rippling out to investment-grade corporate bonds and emerging market debt.

The yield on the 10-year Treasury rose above 2.60 per cent on Thursday, its highest since September 2014. The five-year note yield has surpassed 2 per cent for the first time since May 2011.

“We’re on our way to a 2.75 per cent [yielding] 10-year,” says Rick Rieder, BlackRock’s chief investment officer of fixed income. “I don’t subscribe to the thesis we’re moving to much higher interest rates, but it will be pretty hard until we get other information from the Fed for interest rates to do anything other than drift higher.”

US bonds had already been under pressure as investors prepare for faster economic growth and a more aggressive Fed, as well as with the concern that deficits could be funded with a spurt of new Treasury issuance.

However, the more hawkish message from the Fed did not convince everyone. Doubters pointed to the very modest increase in its growth forecasts for next year and the lack of change in its inflation forecasts for 2017 to 2019. Officials on the Fed’s Open Market Committee (FOMC), for example, edge up their GDP forecast for 2017 to 2.1 per cent from 2 per cent.

Richard Clarida, a global strategic adviser at Pimco, says he is puzzled by the Fed’s higher rate forecast profile for next year: “In sum, four members of the FOMC appeared willing to place at least a modest bet that Trumponomics will justify three hikes instead of two in 2017.”

That was echoed by Philip Marey, strategist at Dutch lender Rabobank, who says he was “sceptical of three hikes in 2017”, pointing to the lag in any impact on growth and inflation from an expected infrastructure stimulus from Mr Trump, as well as shift in members of the FOMC voting members next year.

While bonds retreated, the dollar surged in the wake of the Fed and that may also shape as a restraining factor on Fed tightening next year.

With the euro and yen under further pressure, the dollar index stands at its highest level since 2003. The dollar’s performance reflects the accelerating divergence between US and global rates, with the attraction of higher yields on Treasuries drawing capital to the country.

“The US dollar may have been ahead of the Fed in digesting what the US election result might mean for growth, but it will still likely strengthen further on the Fed’s swifter than expected conversion to a possible fiscal reflation theme,” cautioned Daragh Maher, a currency strategist at HSBC.
   COfed : Federal Reserve Board   NSc172 : Corporate Debt Instruments | e1202 : Interest Rates | eitax : Income Tax | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | c17 : Corporate Funding | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e12 : Monetary Policy | e21 : Government Finance | e211 : Government Budget/Taxation | e2111 : Direct Taxation | ecat : Economic News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTCOM00020161214ecce00bf5  



 HDFed raises rates for second time since June 2006   BYSam Fleming    WC252 words   PD14 December 2016   ET20:04   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2016 The Financial Times Ltd. All rights reserved. Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the web. 
   LPThe Federal Reserve has raised short-term interest rates for the second time in a decade and forecast a faster pace of tightening in the coming year, as it responds to a US economy that has been gathering momentum and may receive further stimulus from Republican tax cuts.

With the US on the cusp of full employment and inflation gradually approaching the Fed’s target, the central bank raised the target range for the federal funds rate by a quarter-point to 0.5-0.75 per cent, as was widely expected in the financial markets, reports Sam Fleming in DC.
   TDFollowing a long procession of downgrades to its interest-rate forecasts in recent quarters, the central bank’s policymakers penciled in a median projection of three quarter-point increases for 2017, up from two previously.

The decision to lift rates on Wednesday, which was unanimous, came in the Fed’s final meeting before president-elect Trump is due to take office, and as Republicans contemplate tax-cutting plans that could add further fuel to the recovery.

In its post-meeting statement the Fed said it was raising rates in view of “realized and expected labour market conditions and inflation” while reiterating its existing guidance that increases will be “gradual”.

It added that policy remained “accommodative” and that this would support “some” further strengthening of the labour market – words that suggested the central bank thinks it is closer to maximum employment.
   COfed : Federal Reserve Board   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | effund : Interbank Rate | ecat : Economic News | e12 : Monetary Policy   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTCOM00020161214ecce009ex  



 HDFed-Funds Futures Spring to Life   BYBy Alexander Osipovich      WC632 words   PD14 December 2016   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGB18   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
   LPA once-sluggish market for contracts that traders use to bet on Federal Reserve policy has roared to life.

Federal-funds futures, used to wager on the central bank's interest-rate moves, are poised to have a record year in 2016, according to CME Group Inc., the exchange on which they are traded. On average, about 135,000 of the contracts have changed hands each day this year, based on CME data through the first week of December. In comparison, average daily volume was about 18,000 in 2013.
   TDThe rise in volume on the contract, which has been traded since 1988, reflects deeper shifts in the market that have fueled trading in interest-rate futures, CME and some market observers said. Regulations imposed after the 2008 financial crisis have made it more efficient for firms to hedge against rate increases with futures than swaps, according to the exchange. A swap is a contract in which two parties agree to exchange streams of payments over time.

Fed-funds futures underpin CME's FedWatch tool, which forecasts the likelihood of a Fed rate increase based on what traders are willing to pay for the contract. The contract is tied to the fed-funds rate, which measures what banks charge one another for overnight borrowing.

On Tuesday, FedWatch was indicating a 95% probability that the Fed would raise its benchmark interest rate by a quarter percentage point to a range between 0.50% and 0.75% at the end of its two-day meeting on Wednesday.

Trading in fed-funds futures gained steam in 2015 as the Fed settled on a plan to raise the benchmark rate after seven years of keeping it near zero. Following a rate increase last December, the market expected two or three more Fed rate increases in 2016, said Subadra Rajappa, head of U.S. rates strategy at Societe Generale SA.

Then a series of gloomy reports on the U.S. economy upset those expectations, sending volumes in fed-funds futures shooting upward as the market recalibrated.

Political events such as the U.K.'s vote to exit the European Union and the victory of Donald Trump in the U.S. presidential election further juiced trading in the contract.

The three busiest trading days in the history of fed-funds futures all have taken place in 2016, and two of them were tied to political upheaval, CME data show. Those were Nov. 9, the day after Mr. Trump's win; Sept. 21, when a meeting by the Fed's rate-setting committee took place; and June 24, the day after the U.K.'s Brexit referendum.

"With all the political turmoil over the past year, investors have been trying to position themselves to predict or in some cases be defensive against interest-rate hikes," said Tom Lehrkinder, a senior analyst at Tabb Group, a research and consulting firm.

The surge in volumes has been a boon for CME, which collects more money in fees when more of its contracts are traded. The Chicago-based exchange operator enjoyed record volume in 2016 across all its interest-rate products, but fed-funds futures have seen the largest growth of any major rates contract over the past three years, said a CME spokesman.

Structural shifts in the marketplace like regulations have also boosted volumes, said Agha Mirza, CME's global head of interest-rate products.

Both futures and swaps are used to protect against interest-rate swings, but entering a swap has traditionally meant having to shop among the small number of big banks that offer the product. In contrast, futures are "transparent, liquid and provide all-to-all equal access," Mr. Mirza said.

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   COchmer : CME Group Inc. | fed : Federal Reserve Board   INi81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | iinv : Investing/Securities | i814 : Banking | ifinal : Financial Services | i831 : Financial Investments | i83106 : Securities/Commodity Exchange Activities   NSecat : Economic News | effund : Interbank Rate | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | e12 : Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCABO | AEQI | DJCS | NRG | SGN | FED | USG | FCL | NND | TPX | BAF   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument J000000020161214ecce00002  



 HDShort-Term Loans Get More Expensive --- A boost in borrowing costs could crimp corporate profits as Fed nears rate rise   BYBy Ben Eisen, Min Zeng and Vipal Monga      WC924 words   PD14 December 2016   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGB18   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
   LPShort-term corporate funding costs have hit their highest level in nearly eight years, threatening to crimp companies' profits as the Federal Reserve contemplates raising its benchmark short-term rate.

The three-month dollar London interbank offered rate, a widely watched benchmark for the cost of corporate lending, was at 0.96% on Monday, the highest since 2009. The rate moved sharply higher in the lead-up to regulatory changes that made some types of U.S. money markets less attractive to investors and has continued to rise since the changes took effect in mid-October. The rate is up from 0.88% on Oct. 14 and 0.61% at the end of last year.
   TDThis is no small matter: Higher short-term borrowing rates stand to test some of the economic assumptions underpinning the stock-market rally because they make it more expensive for companies to finance their operations. If not matched by quicker growth, funding costs could start to weigh on an economy that already has fallen short of many analysts' forecasts.

The higher borrowing costs have been driven mostly by regulatory changes that require prime money-market funds to be able to bar outflows or charge redemption fees during periods of market turbulence. The sharp flow of money out of those funds diminished demand for short-term IOUs and other debt, pushing those borrowing rates higher. Now, investors are watching to see whether the economy picks up enough to withstand the impact of higher corporate funding costs.

"I think money-market reform was the catalyst," said Joseph Lynagh, portfolio manager and head of the cash-management team at T. Rowe Price Group. The next test of whether dollar funding costs continue to rise is a Fed rate increase, he said. The Fed is expected to embark on its second rate increase since the financial crisis on Wednesday.

As the Goldman Sachs Financial Conditions Index rose to near its highest level of the year in mid-February, indicating money was getting tighter, Fed Chairwoman Janet Yellen told the Senate Banking Committee that conditions had "become less supportive of growth." That measure, which takes into account factors such as the relative strength of the dollar and the level of Treasury yields, is now lower than in February but has been on the upswing since August.

Investors have been betting on faster economic growth and higher inflation when President-elect Donald Trump takes office in January, wagers that since Election Day have pushed the Dow industrials up 8.6% to records. Such expectations also sent the yield on the 10-year Treasury note above 2.5% for the first time in two years on Monday.

"Tighter financial conditions point to slower, not faster, global growth," said Zoltan Pozsar, director of economics at Credit Suisse Group Inc. and a former markets official at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York.

The rise in short-term funding costs already has sent ripples through the financial markets. With funding getting more expensive, some foreign companies turned to the so-called cross-currency basis swap market to obtain dollars by swapping from their own currencies. That, in turn, drove up the cost of such transactions, investors say.

That has affected firms such as Netherlands-based Wolters Kluwer NV. The information-services company had 1.9 billion euros ($2 billion) of bonds on its books at the end of June, while 61% of its revenue came from North America, according to its first-half earnings report.

The company has a swap program in place for the interest-rate expense on the debt. The rates banks are charging for those swaps have risen, particularly over the past year, said Kevin Entricken, the company's finance chief, as the demand for dollars has picked up. "Banks are making sure to put in place appropriate pricing to mitigate these risks," he said.

The rise in short-term funding costs has prompted some foreign companies to look elsewhere for funding, such as by issuing longer-term dollar-denominated bonds. The amount of so-called Yankee bonds, debt sold in the U.S. by foreign entities, has surged to $932.4 billion this year, already an annual record in data going back to 1995, according to data provider Dealogic.

Japanese financial institutions, including insurance companies, have raised $42.4 billion by issuing dollar-denominated bonds in 2016, also the most on record for a single year, according to Dealogic.

"Increasing costs of dollar funding is a serious problem," said Hidetoshi Ohashi, chief credit strategist in Tokyo at Mizuho Securities. "Each firm is scrambling to secure funding."

Some observers say the worst of the dollar-funding crunch has passed, particularly because rising yields around the globe may limit some of the demand for dollars. Foreign investors who may have sought out dollars to buy U.S. fixed-income investments are now finding domestic debt just as attractive, alleviating the need for dollars to invest, according to Jeffrey Rosenberg, BlackRock's chief investment strategist for fixed income.

Still, Credit Suisse's Mr. Pozsar suggested that structural issues could continue to exacerbate dollar-funding stress. Falling supply and rising demand could push the three-month yen/dollar cross-currency basis swap level to nearly double its current level, he wrote in a report last month.

---

Kosaku Narioka contributed to this article.

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   COfed : Federal Reserve Board   NSm131 : Money Markets | c151 : Earnings | c173 : Financing Agreements | ecat : Economic News | elibor : London Interbank Offered Rate | nfiac : Fixed Income Asset Class News | c15 : Financial Performance | c17 : Corporate Funding | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e12 : Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | effund : Interbank Rate | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCAFXI | MEN | NND | TPX | BAF   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument J000000020161214ecce00001  



 HDRate Rise Unlikely To Reward Depositors   BYBy Peter Rudegeair      WC719 words   PD15 December 2016   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGB1   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
   LPMany borrowers will have to pay more for loans now that the Federal Reserve has raised short-term interest rates. What about bank customers hoping to get paid more for deposits? Keep waiting.

Banks haven't passed on to depositors much of the benefit of last year's Fed rate increase and aren't likely to give savers much this time around. The Fed on Wednesday said that it would increase its short-term rate target by a quarter of a percentage point, bringing it to a range of 0.50 to 0.75 percentage point.
   TDTrue, most banks are quick to raise their "prime" borrowing rate when the federal-funds target moves higher. That immediately bolsters bank profits by lifting the percentage rate they charge for credit cards, home-equity lines of credit and other types of loans.

Bank of America Corp., J.P. Morgan Chase & Co., U.S. Bancorp and others announced boosts to their prime rates on Wednesday. The Wall Street Journal's prime rate, based on a survey of the largest U.S. banks, increases to 3.75% effective Thursday.

But banks generally don't rush to increase deposit rates, allowing them to pocket the higher spread, or difference, between what they earn on loans and what they pay to customers.

Deposit rates especially lag behind in the first year of a period of rising rates, data provided by Bankrate.com showed last year.

The level of deposit rates tends to depend on the Fed's target rate. So while longer-term bond yields have increased significantly of late -- the yield on the 10-year U.S. Treasury has jumped a full percentage point in just five months -- that doesn't affect what bank-account holders get paid for short-term deposits.

At Bank of America, one of the largest deposit takers in the U.S., Chief Executive Brian Moynihan said at an investor conference last week that the Fed's latest rate increase would likely play out the same way as last year's. In other words, deposit rates won't move up in lock step with the Fed.

Mr. Moynihan said that could change for future rate increases, however.

At many large banks, the amount savers received in interest has barely budged since last year. Bank of America paid an average of 0.08% interest on U.S. deposits during the third quarter, according to its financial filings. That is unchanged from the same quarter of 2015, which preceded the Fed's decision to raise short-term interest rates for the first time in a decade.

Online banks tend to be more generous, but several have reported paying lower rates on interest-bearing deposits. Ally Financial Inc., which held $75.7 billion of deposits, said its average retail deposit rate fell to 1.1% in the third quarter of 2016, from 1.14% in the same period a year earlier.

Banks do pay more to customers who hold certificates of deposits, which lock up savers' money for a defined period. But even those rates have increased only slightly: The average interest rate on a one-year CD is 0.31%, only 0.04 percentage point above where it was a year ago, according to data from Bankrate.com.

CD rates haven't only lagged behind the increase in the fed-funds rate, but also the sharper rise in yields on short- and medium-term U.S. government debt. This means banks could park customer money in safe securities and still earn a higher spread than they did last year.

For instance, the yield on the one-year Treasury rose five times as much as average CD rates over the past year.

Of course, investors also could buy Treasurys. But deposits at the biggest banks tend to be quite sticky, due in part to the banks' huge branch networks, mobile apps and heavy marketing budgets.

And, overall, consumers have found it hard to part with deposits. Despite years of rising stock markets and low rates that made deposits the functional equivalent of sticking money under the mattress, domestic U.S. deposits rose about 19% in the three years ended Sept. 30 to about $11.5 trillion.

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   COncnbco : Bank of America Corporation | fed : Federal Reserve Board   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services | iibnk : Integrated Banks   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | effund : Interbank Rate | gvbod : Government Bodies | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m131 : Money Markets | nfiac : Fixed Income Asset Class News | e12 : Monetary Policy | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCAFXI | MEN | FED | USG | FCL | NND | TPX | BAF | SFR   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument J000000020161215eccf0001r  



 HDAnalysis: Yellen, Trump on Same Page, for Now   BYBy Greg Ip      WC899 words   PD15 December 2016   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGA1   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
   LPThe stock market's postelection euphoria got a reality check Wednesday when the Federal Reserve raised interest rates and gently hinted more are in store, in particular if the economy gets a dose of fiscal stimulus.

So is the central bank on a collision course with incoming President Donald Trump? Probably not.
   TDFor at least the next year or two, the interests of Mr. Trump and Fed Chairwoman Janet Yellen are closely aligned. He wants low unemployment and faster economic growth, and she's happy to err on the side of both via the most docile course of interest-rate increases on record, so long as inflation stays low.

Historically, tensions arose between presidents and Fed chairmen as the former wanted low unemployment at any cost, and the latter prioritized low inflation. Today is different. Inflation has persistently been below the Fed's 2% target, and the Fed believes structural changes in the economy mean it can't tolerate a federal-funds rate -- what banks charge each other for overnight loans -- much above 3%. These two factors are a powerful incentive for Mrs. Yellen to err on the side of easy monetary policy.

Mrs. Yellen is a firm believer in the Phillips curve, which holds that if unemployment falls below some natural rate, the scarcity of labor and other resources pushes wages and prices higher. Fed officials put that natural rate at 4.8%. In November, actual unemployment fell to 4.6%.

Yet officials see the jobless rate averaging even less, at 4.5%, for the next three years. "We think that's appropriate because we want inflation to rise to our 2% objective in a timely fashion," she told reporters Wednesday.

November's unexpected drop in unemployment is one reason several Fed officials penciled in three rate increases next year, instead of two, according to projections released after the meeting. Those rate revisions, in turn, sent stocks lower and bond yields higher on Wednesday.

Yet the actual changes were trivial. Averaging all officials' forecasts, the Fed's target for overnight funds is seen rising to 1.37% by the end of next year, up only marginally from 1.31% in September. A more revealing comparison is to the forecasts for the end of the year given in March, when the projected average was 2.04%. So despite a job market that continues to perform solidly, officials are sticking to the "new normal" view of interest rates: much lower than they have been historically, for much longer.

In this world, the Fed tends to see bad news as a reason to delay tightening without using good news as a reason to speed up. A few officials think the prospects of Mr. Trump ushering in a big deficit-financed tax cut and spending boost merit an extra rate increase next year, Mrs. Yellen said, but she doesn't appear to be one of them; she would prefer to see the details.

The Fed chairwoman is also inclined to let the unemployment rate test its lower bounds, though. On Wednesday, she emphasized she wouldn't allow such an experiment to push inflation above the Fed's target.

One potential flashpoint is the dollar. It has rallied sharply since the election on expectations of higher interest rates. That may worsen the U.S. trade deficit, a central preoccupation of Mr. Trump.

Since then-President Bill Clinton adopted the policy of not publicly criticizing the Fed, its chairmen have been largely free to set policy without worrying about what the White House would say. But the days when central bankers stood above the political fray are now over. During the campaign, Mr. Trump accused Mrs. Yellen of holding down rates to help President Barack Obama, and included her in a television ad attacking multinational bankers.

Many of his advisers fret that central banks' stimulative policies, from bond buying to zero or negative interest rates, have done more harm than good. "If we woke uptomorrowand every central bank in the world raised interest rates by 300 basis points, the world would be a better place," Goldman Sachs executive Gary Cohn, soon to become director of Mr. Trump's National Economic Council, said this year.

But those objections may make little practical difference for the next few years since the Fed is moving away from zero anyway. And just as Mr. Trump's campaign attacks on Mr. Obama didn't prevent the two from developing a rapport after the election, his administration's relationship with Mrs. Yellen likely will depend more on her performance than her political party.

Mr. Cohn, after all, is a Democrat. Steven Mnuchin, Mr. Trump's pick for Treasury secretary, has said Mrs. Yellen has done a "good job." Though Mr. Trump has said he'd likely name a Republican when her term expires in early 2018, it is too soon to write off the possibility of reappointment.

Mrs. Yellen declined to speculate on her future, while reminding reporters her term doesn't coincide with the president's for a good reason: it makes it easier to act without fear of political interference. The implicit message is she plans to do what she has to whether Mr. Trump likes it or not. So far, though, there is not a lot to dislike.

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   COfed : Federal Reserve Board   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | e1116 : Employment/Unemployment | ecat : Economic News | effund : Interbank Rate | gvbod : Government Bodies | m131 : Money Markets | npag : Page-One Stories | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Monetary Policy | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCFED | USG | NND | TPX | PGO   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument J000000020161215eccf00023  

 Fed Hikes Rates, Signals More Aggressive Stance
The Wall Street Journal What's News, 14 December 2016, 1788 words, (English)
Summary: As expected, Fed policymakers lifted short-term interest rates a quarter point at their final meeting of 2016. John Canally of LPL Financial said the big news was that the Fed signaled a faster pace of hikes for 2017 than had been ...
Document MMSAJZ0020161215ecce0002t

 U.S. Stocks Fall After Fed Raises Rates
WSJ Blogs, 22:29, 14 December 2016, 1013 words, (English)
Welcome to Evening MoneyBeat, WSJ's closing-bell roundup of all the news and developments in the capital markets. To receive this newsletter, click here: http://on.wsj.com/MoneyBeatEveningSignup
Document WCWSJB0020161214ecce002mh

 Economists React to the Federal Reserve: ‘A Bit Hawkish'
WSJ Blogs, 21:00, 14 December 2016, 654 words, (English)
The Federal Reserve voted Wednesday to raise interest rates by a quarter percentage point to between 0.5% and 0.75%. Wednesday's move was the first in 2016. Fed officials in economic projections accompanying their statement suggested it ...
Document WCWSJB0020161214ecce002bd



 SEEconomy   HDFed Officials See More Rate Rises Coming In 2017; Forecasts,  interest rate  projections surrounded by greater uncertainty than usual   BYBy Michael S. Derby    WC530 words   PD14 December 2016   ET20:04   SNThe Wall Street Journal Online   SCWSJO   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
   LPWASHINGTON—Federal Reserve officials now expect to raise short-term interest rate more often next year, amid a little changed economic outlook.

Officials penciled in around three rate rises for 2017 that would leave their overnight target rate at a median level of 1.4% for that year, up from 1.1% in forecasts released in September. They see an additional three increases each in 2018 and 2019, with the median rate target at 2.9% for the latter year. The forecasts show less consensus among policy makers about rate actions after next year.
   TDDespite the change in monetary views, officials views on growth, hiring and inflation aren't much different relative to September. On the inflation front, policy makers still expect to get back to their 2% price target in 2018.

The Fed's updated forecasts were released as part of their Federal Open Market Committee gathering, held over Tuesday and Wednesday. At that gathering officials met broad expectations that they'd raise their short-term interest rate target, moving from the 0.25% to 0.50% range in place since last December to 0.50% to 0.75%.

The forecasts and interest rate projections released by the Fed are surrounded by greater uncertainty than usual. The unexpected election of Donald Trump and the extension of Republican control over congress portend significant policy changes in the years ahead.

While no one knows what will happen, many observers reckon elected leaders are likely to embark on deficit-fueled spending programs and put in place other changes that could drive economic growth up for a time. That could drive the Fed to raise rates more than it now expects.

Over recent weeks Fed officials have noted they'll change their respective outlooks when new policies are put in place. They've said they are unlikely to change their forecasts based on expectations of what congress and the president might put in place.

On December 6, New York Fed President William Dudley, who also serves as vice chairman of the FOMC, said "it is premature to reach firm conclusions about what will likely occur" under the new administration. "As we get greater clarity over the coming year, I will update my assessment of the economic outlook and, with that, my views about the appropriate stance of monetary policy," he said then.

In the forecasts, Fed officials now expect the U.S. gross domestic product to come in at 1.9% for this year, versus the 1.8% median estimate from September.

For 2017 officials project GDP at a 2.1% rise, from the prior estimate of 2%.

Policy makers still see the economy's long-run growth rate at 1.8%.

For 2017, Fed officials median view for what's now a 4.6% jobless rate moved to 4.7%, versus September's estimate of 4.8%. In 2018 unemployment is see at 4.5%. Inflation is seen hitting 1.9% next year, matching September's estimate.

Write to Michael S. Derby at michael.derby@wsj.com
   INi814 : Banking | ifinal : Financial Services | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gvbod : Government Bodies | npred : Economic Predictions/Forecasts | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | ncat : Content Types   REnamz : North America | usa : United States | usdc : Washington DC | uss : Southern U.S.   IPCG/FED | I/BKS | I/BNK | M/FCL | N/CBK | N/CMR | N/DJN | N/ECO | N/EMJ | N/EMP | N/GENI | N/IEJ | N/IEN | P/HDL | R/DC | R/NME | R/US | R/USS   IPDFED | FED DECISION | FEDERAL RESERVE | FED MEETING | FED PROJECTIONS | FOMC | FOMC MEETING | INTEREST RATES | JANET YELLEN | SEP | SUMMARY OF ECONOMIC PROJECTIONS | YELLEN | Trump, Donald | William Dudley | PRO | SYND | WSJ-PRO-CB | WSJ-PRO-WSJ.com | Central Banks | WSJ.com   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument WSJO000020161214ecce0099i  



 SEMarkets   HDFed  Interest-Rate  Increase Sends Asia Stocks Lower; U.S. central bank expects to raise interest rates by 0.75 percentage point in 2017   BYBy Kenan Machadoand Kosaku Narioka    WC711 words   PD15 December 2016   ET09:19   SNThe Wall Street Journal Online   SCWSJO   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
   LPAsian markets were broadly down Thursday after the U.S. Federal Reserve flagged a faster pace of \b interest-rate\b0  increases than expected in 2017.

"We were certainly surprised by the Fed move," said Tim Condon, head of research for Asia at ING.
   TDOvernight, the Federal Reserve raised the federal-funds rate by a quarter of a percentage point to between 0.50% and 0.75%, and said it expected to raise short-term rates next year by an additional 0.75 percentage point, spread over three rate increases.

Markets had expected a 0.50 percentage-point increase in 2017 over two rate rises.

Rising U.S. rates increase funding costs for Asian companies in dollars, and it pulls money from regional markets to the States.

Australia's S&P/ASX 200 dropped 0.8%, while South Korea's Kospi ended lower. The Shanghai Composite fell 0.7%, and Singapore's Straits Times slid 0.8%.

Hong Kong's Hang Seng Index ended down 1.8%, with property stocks leading declines.

The Hong Kong dollar is pegged to its U.S. counterpart, which means Hong Kong rates rise in sync with those of the U.S. Higher rates make Hong Kong mortgages more expensive, deterring home sales.

On Thursday, the Hong Kong Monetary Authority raised its base rate by 0.25 percentage point to 1.0%, matching the overnight interest-rate increase by the Fed.

The Hang Seng Property Index slumped 2.6%, making it the worst performer among the Hang Seng's main subindexes. Property majors Wharf (Holdings) fell 2.6%, with New World Development down 2.8%.

Citi said in a note that the Fed rate rise "should trigger the start of a Hong Kong home-price downtrend."

Traders' concerns about a selloff in China's onshore bond market hit the share prices of Chinese firms listed in Hong Kong, said Bill Bowler, Asia equities sales trader at Forsyth Barr Asia. "There is a range of speculation about bond-market stress, so it's hitting banks and insurers particularly hard."

China's 10-year and five-year government-bond futures initially traded down Thursday by the daily maximum limit of 2% and 1.2%, respectively. The 10-year instrument is down 1.8%, and the five-year is down 1.2%

Becky Liu, a rate strategist at Standard Chartered Bank, blamed the sell-off on the Fed's rate hike and rising U.S. Treasury yields.

The Fed's aggressiveness sent the U.S. Dollar Index to 13-year highs, with the index 0.7% higher in Asian trade. The stronger dollar weighed on Asian currencies, with the Indonesian rupiah down 0.7% and the Malaysian ringgit off 0.4%.

China set the yuan 0.38% weaker against the U.S. dollar Thursday. The yuan traded on the mainland was last down 0.5%, with the more freely traded offshore yuan down 0.2%.

The only beneficiary of the stronger dollar was Japan, as a weak yen makes the country's exports more competitive.

The U.S. dollar gained 0.6% against the yen, triggering a 1.4% share-price rise for Nissan Motor and Honda Motor. The weaker yen pushed up the benchmark Nikkei Stock Average by 0.1% after rising as much as 1.0% in morning trade.

Japanese financial stocks gained, with insurer T&D Holdings rising 2.3% and Dai-ichi Life adding 1.0%. Hiroyuki Ito, portfolio manager for Japanese equities at Fidelity International, said rising yields on government bonds pushed up the share prices on Japan financial firms.

"The initial reaction is a buy, but the longer-term outlook isn't clear," said Hideyuki Ishiguro, senior strategist at Daiwa Securities, referring to Japan equities broadly. "We'd have to think about the adverse effects of rate increases, such as possible capital outflows from emerging economies."

Rebecca Thurlow, James Glynn, Saumya Vaishampayan, Xie Yifan, Anjie Zheng, Carol Chan and Robb M. Stewart contributed to this article.

Write to Kenan Machado at kenan.machado@wsj.com and Kosaku Narioka at kosaku.narioka@wsj.com
   COfed : Federal Reserve Board   INi814 : Banking | ifinal : Financial Services | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | mntdbt : National Government Debt/Bond Markets | e1102 : Money Supply | e12 : Monetary Policy | e52 : Euro Zone/Currency | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpersf : Personal Finance | gpersi : Personal Investments | gvbod : Government Bodies | m11 : Equity Markets | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | m131 : Money Markets | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mcuop : Currency Options | mforx : Forex Derivatives | nmsmc : Main Stock Market Commentary | nsmcm : Stock Market Commentary | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | m15 : Derivative Securities | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter   REhkong : Hong Kong | china : China | jap : Japan | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia | easiaz : Eastern Asia | indon : Indonesia | malay : Malaysia | namz : North America | russ : Russia | seasiaz : Southeast Asia | sousud : South Sudan | usa : United States | africaz : Africa | apacz : Asia Pacific | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | eafrz : East Africa | eeurz : Central/Eastern Europe | eurz : Europe | ussrz : CIS Countries   IPC0011.HK | 0012.HK | 1106 | 5037 | 62560 | 7201.TO | 7267.TO | CBA.AU | CBAUY | G/FED | G/TRE | HMC | HSNGY | I/BKS | I/BNK | M/FCL | M/JPY | N/BON | N/CBK | N/DJMB | N/DJN | N/EMP | N/FRX | N/GENI | N/IEN | N/MFO | N/MKT | N/MSM | N/SDT | N/SMC | N/STK | N/WER | NSANY | P/TOMW | PP.YY | R/ASA | R/ASI | R/CH | R/FEO | R/HK | R/IO | R/JA | R/MY | R/NME | R/SSA | R/US   IPDASIA MARKETS | ASIAN SHARES | ASIA STOCK MARKETS | CHINA STOCK MARKETS | FED AND ASIA MARKETS | FED AND EMERGING ECONOMIES | FED RATES | JAPANESE STOCK MARKETS | U.S. FEDERAL RESERVE | Bowler, Bill | Condon, Tim | Ishiguro, Hideyuki | PRO | SYND | WSJ-PRO-NP | WSJ-PRO-WSJ.com | Asiastox | WSJ.com   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument WSJO000020161215eccf000ru  



 SEEconomy   HDBullard Raises Rate View, Wants Fed to Consider Shrinking Balance Sheet; St. Louis Fed president says the rise in bond yields has led him to change his  interest-rate  outlook   BYBy Michael S. Derby    WC791 words   PD16 December 2016   ET20:50   SNThe Wall Street Journal Online   SCWSJO   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
   LPFederal Reserve Bank of St. Louis President James Bullard said Friday the U.S. central bank should think seriously about shrinking its massive balance sheet starting next year, in an interview in which he also acknowledged moving his interest-rate outlook higher.

The big upward move in bond yields seen since the election indicates to him the need for a rate rise in 2017, Mr. Bullard told The Wall Street Journal Friday. Ahead of the Fed's policy meeting this week, where the central bank raised rates for the first time in a year, Mr. Bullard favored a single rate rise and then no additional action for the next few years.
   TD"The contours of our outlook for the U.S. economy are the same" as they have been, despite the surprising outcome of the U.S. election in November, Mr. Bullard said. "We've probably got more upside risk than we had before, and we [the St. Louis Fed] did make the one adjustment to the policy rate, and we suggested that policy rate move could be made in 2017."

The shift in bond-market borrowing costs is the key issue in Mr. Bullard's rate outlook change. He said half of what has driven yields higher, and bond prices down, is a welcome increase in inflation expectations. The other half is an expectation of higher real returns, which Mr. Bullard considers a key driver of his monetary policy calculus.

"The real rate going up on the order of 25, 30 basis points, we did take that on board and we think that's important," Mr. Bullard said. But he also added the exact timing of the rate rise he would like to see isn't critical.

Mr. Bullard has been a voting member of the interest-rate-setting Federal Open Market Committee this year, but won't be in 2017. He holds one of the most dovish views among policy makers. In its official outlook, the Fed penciled in around three rate increases for next year if the economy performs as expected, from its estimate of two increases made at the September meeting.

Fed officials have acknowledged now is a time of heightened uncertainty for the outlook given the unexpected election of Donald Trump as president, joined with continued Republican control of Congress.

Mr. Bullard said if the right policies are put in place, getting the economy on a path toward sustained 3% to 4% growth was possible. But, as he has said before, it will take a while before any changes happen and it is unlikely there would be any significant impact on the economy in 2017.

Mr. Bullard, while favoring fewer rate increases than his colleagues, appears more willing to do something about the Fed's $4.5 trillion balance sheet. Fed officials say they want it to shrink at some point, but when remains unclear. A number of officials want rates a bit higher before they take on the issue, but Mr. Bullard is ready to start the conversation now.

The new year "possibly might be a good time to play that card" and start allowing maturing bond securities not to be replaced as they are now, he said. That would allow the Fed's holdings to shrink, which in turn would make financial conditions more restrictive of growth.

If Fed officials aren't ready to allow for outright shrinkage, they could shift what type of bonds are bought in their reinvestments, Mr. Bullard said. He said the Fed could skew purchases toward short-dated bonds as preparation for more active measures of balance-sheet contraction.

"My preference would be to allow some runoff in the balance sheet," he said, but added he doesn't think any moves on this front are imminent.

Mr. Bullard said one of the downside risks he sees to the outlook comes from recent ebullience in the stock market, and what could happen if investors overestimate how many Fed tightenings are likely.

"I'd be a little concerned that markets get carried away with how hawkish the committee might be," Mr. Bullard said. "If the markets start to price in a really aggressive Fed, then at least the way I'm looking at it, that would be overdoing it."

Even with the uncertainty the Fed faces, Mr. Bullard said the central bank is on good footing to respond to challenges. "Monetary policy is in a great position today," he said.

Write to Michael S. Derby at michael.derby@wsj.com

Transcript

* WSJ Interview With James Bullard
   COfrbstl : Federal Reserve Bank of St Louis | fed : Federal Reserve Board   INi814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services | i81401 : Central Banking   NSc172 : Corporate Debt Instruments | cactio : Corporate Actions | e12 : Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvote : Elections | gvote1 : National/Presidential Elections | nitv : Interviews | c17 : Corporate Funding | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter   REnamz : North America | usa : United States | usc : Midwest U.S. | usdc : Washington DC | usmo : Missouri | uss : Southern U.S.   IPCG/FED | I/BKS | I/BNK | M/FCL | N/CAC | N/CBK | N/CMR | N/COB | N/DJCS | N/DJN | N/ECO | N/ELX | N/EMP | N/GEN | N/GENI | N/IEN | N/NRG | N/PLT | N/WER | R/DC | R/MO | R/NME | R/US | R/USC   IPDBULLARD | BULLARD INTERVIEW | FED BULLARD | FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF ST. LOUIS | JAMES BULLARD | ST. LOUIS FED | ST. LOUIS FED PRESIDENT | WSJ BULLARD | Trump, Donald | PRO | SYND | WSJ-PRO-CB | WSJ-PRO-WSJ.com | Central Banks | WSJ.com   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument WSJO000020161216eccg008et  

 Parsing the Fed: How the December Statement Changed from November
WSJ Blogs, 21:19, 14 December 2016, 130 words, (English)
The Federal Reserve releases a statement at the conclusion of each of its policy-setting meetings, outlining the central bank's economic outlook and the actions it plans to take. Much of the statement remains the same from meeting to ...
Document WCWSJB0020161214ecce0028l

 Rates Hikes Akin to This One Tend to Be Ominous for Stocks
WSJ Blogs, 15:11, 15 December 2016, 1858 words, (English)
Morning MoneyBeat is the Journal's pre-market primer. To receive this morning newsletter via email, click here: http://on.wsj.com/MoneyBeatUSSignup
Document WCWSJB0020161215eccf00105



 SEEconomy   HDActivists Blast Fed for Raising Rates; Fed Up group cites impact of central bank policy on lower-income Americans   BYBy Michael S. Derby    WC453 words   PD14 December 2016   ET21:50   SNThe Wall Street Journal Online   SCWSJO   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
   LPAn activist group that has been pressing the Federal Reserve to take better account of the impact of its policies on lower-income Americans said the central bank "blew it" by raising rates Wednesday.

"Today the Fed showed how out of touch they are with the reality of struggling Americans who know we are not yet ready to slow the economy down with rate hikes," Fed Up campaign field director Shawn Sebastian said in a statement. He was reacting to the Fed's widely anticipated decision to boost the cost of borrowing for the first time in a year.
   TDThe left-leaning Fed Up organization, which is part of the Center for Popular Democracy, has over the last couple of years mounted a high-profile campaign to press the Fed to keep rates low, believing such a policy will help ensure the economic recovery is enjoyed by all of the nation and not just the wealthy. The group has also taken the Fed to task for the dominance of white men in its leadership ranks.

The group has gotten the Fed's notice, with central bank policy makers regularly meeting with its activists. At the same time, some of the group's agenda was taken up by Congressional Democrats and the unsuccessful presidential campaign of Hillary Clinton. The group's lack of influence among Republicans raises some questions about what lies ahead for its work.

Fed officials have generally countered Fed Up's monetary policy calls by saying interest rate policy is a blunt tool that can't be aimed to help specific demographic groups. At the same time officials have described their desire to raise rates as an effort to normalize monetary policy after the financial crisis. Officials have argued boosting rates isn't designed to slow the economy but to instead sustain expansion and reduce the risk of overheating, which could cause the Fed to drive rates up strongly, risking the onset of a recession.

Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond President Jeffrey Lacker said recently that "the proposed cure" of keeping rates low to help specific groups "may well be worse than the disease."

"What the critics' argument overlooks is the risk that is posed if the Fed overshoots and runs the economy so ‘hot' that inflation pressures rise quickly," he said.

In his statement, Mr. Sebastian said, "We urge Fed policymakers to proceed with caution in 2017," adding, "the Fed should keep the wages and hours of workers at the center of its decision making."

Write to Michael S. Derby at michael.derby@wsj.com
   COfed : Federal Reserve Board   INi814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gvbod : Government Bodies | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPCG/FED | G/IGV | I/BKS | I/BNK | M/FCL | N/AER | N/CBK | N/CMR | N/DJN | N/ECR | N/EMP | N/EMR | N/GENI | N/ICM | N/IEN | N/WER | R/NME | R/US   IPDFED | FEDERAL RESERVE | FED UP | Clinton, Hillary | Jeffrey Lacker | PRO | SYND | WSJ-PRO-CB | WSJ-PRO-WSJ.com | Central Banks | WSJ.com   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument WSJO000020161214ecce00a3y  



 SEEconomy   HDFed Raises Rates for First Time in 2016, Anticipates 3 Increases in 2017; Central bank will nudge up the federal-funds rate by a quarter percentage point to between 0.50% and 0.75%   BYBy Harriet Torry    WC1,345 words   PD15 December 2016   ET06:51   SNThe Wall Street Journal Online   SCWSJO   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
   LPWASHINGTON—The Federal Reserve showed increasing optimism about the U.S. economy and signaled interest rates would rise at a faster pace than previously projected, as it unanimously approved its second rate increase in a decade.

At the central bank's last policy meeting of the year on Wednesday, officials said they would nudge up the federal-funds target rate by a quarter percentage point, to between 0.50% and 0.75%. Fed officials pointed to a strengthening labor market nearing full employment and inflation moving more rapidly toward targeted levels.
   TDThe Fed's more aggressive tone about rates took steam out of a stock-market rally that has been pinned to hopes for faster growth spurred by the incoming Trump administration's plans to cut taxes, boost spending and cut regulations.

The U.S. central bank has the potential to stand in President-elect Donald Trump's way if it raises borrowing costs to squelch growth. However, Fed Chairwoman Janet Yellen emphasized she would take a wait-and-see approach before deciding how to respond to Mr. Trump's emerging economic agenda.

"Our decision to raise rates should certainly be understood as a reflection of the confidence we have in the progress the economy has made" and that it is expected to make, Ms. Yellen said at a press conference.

The brightening economic outlook also prompted a shift in rate forecasts, with Fed officials now expecting to raise rates next year by another 0.75 percentage point, likely in three quarter-point moves.

The move had an immediate effect. U.S. lenders—including J.P. Morgan Chase & Co., Wells Fargo & Co. and Bank of America Corp.—said Wednesday that they would raise their prime rate, a reference rate for a variety of loans including credit-card debt, to 3.75% from 3.50%. That will push consumer loans higher, because many credit-card rates are pegged to the prime rate.

In September, Fed policy makers had anticipated two rate increases in 2017. Ms. Yellen said the shift was modest and reflects officials' individual views on factors including the unemployment rate, which hit a nine-year low in November, and the prospect of faster growth after Mr. Trump takes office.

The change in tone put the brakes on a stock rally that had the Dow Jones Industrial Average heading for the 20000 level before the Fed announcement.

On Wednesday, the blue-chip index dropped 119 points, to 19793, after seven straight record closes. Treasury prices extended their selloff, with the 10-year yield rising to 2.523%, as prices fell. The dollar rallied, helping to push oil prices lower, as a stronger greenback typically makes commodities denominated in dollars more expensive in other currencies.

The Fed's move this week marks just the second rate increase in more than 10 years. Officials said they still envision raising rates gradually off still-low levels. If they move too fast, they risk choking off growth or even tipping the economy back into recession. But if they go too slowly, they risk letting the economy overheat and inflation take off, which also could cause a downturn.

When the Fed raises rates next will depend on various factors affecting the economic outlook.

Ms. Yellen cited the "cloud of uncertainty" surrounding Mr. Trump's plans for cutting taxes and boosting government spending, which could spur economic growth and inflation. "We have time to wait and see what changes occur," she said.

The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Developmenthas estimated that fiscal stimulus in the early months of Mr. Trump's presidency would boost U.S. economic growth.

Fed rate increases usually, but not always, ripple through the economy, causing other borrowing costs to rise, too.

But the market doesn't always follow the Fed's lead. From 2004 to 2006, when the Fed raised its benchmark short-term rate 4.25 percentage points, yields on 10-year U.S. Treasury notes, corporate bonds and mortgage rates barely budged because of strong global appetite for U.S. securities.

Savers will cheer if banks follow by boosting rates on deposits, which have languished at rock-bottom levels for years.

But banks and credit unions will likely be slower to adjust such rates, which tend not to be indexed to the prime rate, but rise or fall based on market moves and competition.

Alan MacEachin, corporate economist at Navy Federal Credit Union, said "it would take one more [Fed] rate increase to move on the rates we offer" for interest-bearing accounts such as its money-market account.

Ahead of the Fed's announcement, John Caldwell, general manager of Galeana's Van Dyke Dodge in Warren, Mich., said he expects little impact on car sales from a quarter-percentage-point rate rise.

"If our average loan of $25,000 has a term of six years, a quarter point only adds $190," he said. "In the big picture, it's very small."

Signs that the Fed may become more aggressive on raising rates could put more upward pressure on mortgage rates, said Michael Fratantoni, chief economist at the Mortgage Bankers Association. Mortgage rates have climbed since the election and hit a 2016 high last week, according to Freddie Mac. A 30-year fixed-rate mortgage averaged 4.13% for the week ended Thursday, compared with 3.95% a year ago.

Low rates have been "very good" for business, said Eduard Van Loenen, president of First Portland Mortgage Corp. in Portland, Maine.

"We've had a nice long ride here, since probably the early 1990s," he said, adding the refinancing side of his business will suffer due to the rate increase, because fewer people will find it worthwhile to renegotiate mortgages.

Sectors likely to welcome higher interest rates include insurance companies and pension funds. Fixed-income investors have struggled as yields on developed-world government debt have dropped, prompting a wider search to meet obligations.

Many participants at the Fed's November meeting expressed concern that an extended period of low interest rates risked intensifying incentives for investors to reach for yield, according to minutes from the gathering.

Gary Bader, chief investment officer of the Alaska Retirement Management Board, a fund with about $20 billion under management for state retirement plans, said he views a Fed rate increase, however small, as positive.

"If rates go up, we will try to have more fixed income in our portfolio, but at the moment it just doesn't pay," he said.

Fed officials appear to have based their forecast for a faster pace of rate increases next year on the strong job market, J.P. Morgan Chase economist Michael Feroli said. The unemployment rate fell to 4.6% in November, and in new projections officials saw the jobless rate falling to 4.5% next year and remaining there through 2019.

The Fed raised the fed-funds rate by a quarter percentage point last December after holding it near zero for seven years during the financial crisis, recession and fitful economic recovery.

The central bank began this year expecting to nudge rates up four times in quarter-percentage-point increments. It didn't move until now because of recurrent worries about growth, weak inflation, hiring and turbulence overseas—concerns that have since dissipated.

Write to Harriet Torry at harriet.torry@wsj.com

Read More

* Analysis: Yellen, Trump on Same Page, for Now

* Recap: \b Federal Reserve Interest-Rate\b0  Decision

* Graphic: Markets React to the Fed

* Parsing the Fed: How the December Statement Changed from November

* Forecasts Surrounded by Greater Uncertainty Than Usual

* Economists React: ‘A Bit Hawkish'

* Yellen Leaves Door Open to Stay at Fed After Chairman Term Ends

* Activists Blast Fed for Raising Rates

* Interest Rates Are Rising. Here's Why Your Deposit Rate Isn't

* Heard on the Street: Fed Gets Ahead of the Market, and Maybe Trump


   COfed : Federal Reserve Board   INi814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | mntdbt : National Government Debt/Bond Markets | e12 : Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gvbod : Government Bodies | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | nimage : Images | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter   REnamz : North America | usa : United States | usdc : Washington DC | uss : Southern U.S.   IPC8301.TO | BAC | G/FED | G/TRE | G/UKBK | I/BKS | I/BNK | JPM | M/FCL | N/BON | N/CBK | N/CMR | N/DJCS | N/DJN | N/ECB | N/ECO | N/EMP | N/GENI | N/IEN | N/MKT | N/NRG | N/SDT | N/WER | P/HDL | R/DC | R/NME | R/US | R/USS | WFC   IPDFED DECISION | FEDERAL RESERVE | FED MEETING | FED RATES | FOMC | FOMC DECISION | FOMC MEETING | INTEREST RATES | JANET YELLEN | JANET YELLEN PRESS CONFERENCE | Fratantoni, Michael | Trump, Donald | ALERTABLE | PRO | SYND | WSJ-PRO-CB | WSJ-PRO-NP | WSJ-PRO-WSJ.com | Central Banks | WSJ.com   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument WSJO000020161214ecce0099d  


 SEEconomy   HDFed Expected to Raise Interest Rates: What to Watch; The central bank is expected to raise rates, and it also will release economic projections for the first time since the U.S. election   BYBy Harriet Torry    WC791 words   PD14 December 2016   ET14:33   SNThe Wall Street Journal Online   SCWSJO   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
   LPFederal Reserve officials are likely to raise short-term interest rates when their two-day meeting concludes Wednesday, the only increase this year and just the second since June 2006. But what will they signal for the path of rates in 2017 and beyond? This will be the Fed's first policy meeting since the election of Donald Trump, who has pledged tax cuts and new government spending—policies that could affect the Fed's outlook for inflation and interest rates over time. The central bank releases its policy statement and economic and interest-rate projections at 2 p.m. EST Wednesday, and Chairwoman Janet Yellen holds a press conference at 2:30 p.m. Here are five things to watch for.

Plotting the Dots
   TDOfficials' projections for their benchmark federal-funds rate in the quarterly chart known as the "dot plot" will be scrutinized for clues about where rates could be heading next year. At their September meeting, officials implied they expected two quarter-percentage-point rate increases in 2017. But that was before Mr. Trump's victory. Economists surveyed by The Wall Street Journal last week see the pace of Fed interest-rate increases picking up in the coming years for a variety of reasons. Several Fed officials, however, have said they won't change their outlook until they see what fiscal policies are enacted, suggesting their dots won't move much this week.

Another thing to watch in the dot plot is officials' long-term expectation for the fed-funds rate. The median of that projection fell to 2.9% in September from 3.50% a year ago, reflecting the belief that the natural rate of interest—the inflation-adjusted overnight rate that is consistent with the economy operating at full potential without overheating—has fallen in the years since the financial crisis. If it keeps declining, that would be a sign of Fed pessimism about the potential for growth in productivity and economic output.

Full Employment

The summary of economic projections will be examined for details of Fed officials' predictions for the unemployment rate at the end of 2017, which could be lower than their September prediction of 4.6%, since that rate was reached last month.

A question facing Fed officials now is: What is full employment—the lowest level the jobless rate can fall to without pushing inflation higher—and are we there yet? Unlike inflation, for which the Fed and several other global central banks have set a 2% target, there is no fixed goal for maximum employment. If officials judge the economy has reached full employment, that could suggest a quicker pace of rate increases ahead to keep inflation in check.

Ms. Yellen told Congress in November that the economy has had "more room to run" than officials had anticipated, indicating she wasn't worried the economy was at risk of overheating.

Wording the Statement

If the Fed does raise rates, it might tweak its policy statement slightly, compared with the one released in November, including dropping language saying the case for a rate increase had "continued to strengthen." Officials' recent comments suggest they are likely to repeat their expectation of "gradual" rate increases. Fed officials often include a line in their statement assessing the risks to their economic outlook. They said in November that the near-term risks to the outlook were "roughly balanced," and could repeat that Wednesday.

Fiscal Policy Implications

During her postmeeting press conference, Ms. Yellen is likely to field questions about the implications of expansionary tax and spending policies for the path of interest rates. In her comments to Congress in November, she said there is "a great deal of uncertainty" surrounding the fiscal outlook. One of her close allies, New York Fed President William Dudley, said last week that the tightening of financial conditions since the election in expectation of tighter Fed policy "seems broadly appropriate," although he added that "it is premature to reach firm conclusions about what will likely occur."

Watch for Dissents

Ms. Yellen faced dissent at five out of seven meetings this year, each time from officials who wanted to push rates higher. If the Fed raises rates, Ms. Yellen might get dissent from policy makers with the opposite concern—those who favor keeping rates low. If governor Lael Brainard, an advocate of low rates, were to dissent, she would become the first governor to vote against a rate decision since Mark Olson in September 2005.

Write to Harriet Torry at harriet.torry@wsj.com
   COfed : Federal Reserve Board   INi814 : Banking | ifinal : Financial Services | i81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | e1116 : Employment/Unemployment | e12 : Monetary Policy | e211 : Government Budget/Taxation | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e21 : Government Finance   REnamz : North America | usa : United States | usdc : Washington DC | uss : Southern U.S.   IPCG/FED | I/BKS | I/BNK | M/FCL | N/CBK | N/CBP | N/CMR | N/DJCS | N/DJN | N/ECO | N/EMP | N/GEN | N/GENI | N/IEN | N/NRG | N/PLT | N/TAX | N/WER | P/HDL | R/DC | R/NME | R/US   IPDFED | FED DECISION | FEDERAL RESERVE | FEDERAL RESERVE DECISION | FED MEETING | FED PREVIEW | FED RATES | FOMC | FOMC MEETING | FOMC PREVIEW | YELLEN | Janet Yellen | Lael Brainard | Olson, Mark | Trump, Donald | William Dudley | ALERTABLE | PRO | SYND | WSJ-PRO-CB | WSJ-PRO-WSJ.com | Central Banks | WSJ.com   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument WSJO000020161214ecce003pd  



 HDNews Highlights: Top Global Markets News of the Day   WC421 words   PD15 December 2016   ET15:15   SNDow Jones Institutional News   SCDJDN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright © 2016, Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 
   LP
U.S. Consumer Prices Posted Fourth Straight Rise in November 
 

Consumer prices rose in November for the fourth consecutive month, offering fresh evidence that U.S. inflation is firming as the Federal Reserve moves ahead with its plan to gradually ramp up short-term interest rates. 
   TD
 
U.S. Jobless Claims Fall 
 

The number of Americans applying for unemployment benefits fell last week, further evidence that the labor market remains steady as the Federal Reserve moves to raise interest rates. 


 
Stocks Rise, Bonds Sell Off After Fed Move 
 

Stocks rose, bonds and gold sold off and the dollar strengthened to fresh highs after the Federal Reserve signaled interest rates would rise faster than previously projected. 


 
WSJ's Daily Shot: Trump Vs. Yellen Is About to Get Intense 
 

* The Fed strikes a hawkish tone. Views US to be close to "full employment". * Yellen doesn't need Trump's stimulus - will likely counteract with faster rate hikes. * Treasuries get pummelled. * US PPI surprises to the upside - inflation is coming. * Greeks give nation's pensioners a "bonus". Greece's creditors are really annoyed - freeze debt forgiveness, sending Greek stocks, bonds sharply lower. 


 
In Oil Face-Off, Saudis, Shale Both Claim Victory 
 

A two-year battle for global oil supremacy that pit Saudi Arabia, head of the powerful oil cartel, against upstart U.S. shale producers left them both badly wounded but with each side claiming victory. 


 
Canada Factory Sales Unexpectedly Decline 
 

Canadian factory shipments unexpectedly declined in October for the worst month-over-month performance in six months, marking another setback. 


 
Crude Prices Rise on Fed Rate Increase 
 

Crude prices unexpectedly rose despite the U.S. Federal Reserve's move to increase interest rates and a report pointing to increased output from OPEC. 


 
Fed Lifts Rates, Signals More Increases Next Year 
 

The Federal Reserve said it would raise its benchmark short-term interest rate for the first time in a year and signaled that rates would rise at a faster pace than previously projected. 


 
BOE Holds Rates, Flags Global Risks 
 

The Bank of England held its benchmark interest rate steady, saying the outlook for the global economy has darkened amid renewed strains in emerging markets from rising interest rates and a strengthening dollar. 


 
Bond Rout Deepens After Fed Rate Signals 
 

Investors dumped government bonds after the Federal Reserve nudged interest rates higher and officials signaled a quicker pace of rate rises next year.

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

December 15, 2016 09:15 ET (14:15 GMT)
   COfed : Federal Reserve Board   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | ejobcl : Jobless Claims | e1103 : Inflation/Prices | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | nfiac : Fixed Income Asset Class News | nhhour : Headlines of the Hour | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1116 : Employment/Unemployment | e12 : Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | ndj : Dow Jones Top Stories | nfact : Factiva Filters | ntop : Top Wire News | redit : Selection of Top Stories/Trends/Analysis   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument DJDN000020161215eccf0026f  



 HDNews Highlights: Top Global Markets News of the Day   WC421 words   PD15 December 2016   ET15:00   SNDow Jones Institutional News   SCDJDN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright © 2016, Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 
   LP
 
U.S. Consumer Prices Posted Fourth Straight Rise in November 
 

Consumer prices rose in November for the fourth consecutive month, offering fresh evidence that U.S. inflation is firming as the Federal Reserve moves ahead with its plan to gradually ramp up short-term interest rates. 
   TD
 
U.S. Jobless Claims Fall 
 

The number of Americans applying for unemployment benefits fell last week, further evidence that the labor market remains steady as the Federal Reserve moves to raise interest rates. 


 
Stocks Rise, Bonds Sell Off After Fed Move 
 

Stocks rose, bonds and gold sold off and the dollar strengthened to fresh highs after the Federal Reserve signaled interest rates would rise faster than previously projected. 


 
WSJ's Daily Shot: Trump Vs. Yellen Is About to Get Intense 
 

* The Fed strikes a hawkish tone. Views US to be close to "full employment". * Yellen doesn't need Trump's stimulus - will likely counteract with faster rate hikes. * Treasuries get pummelled. * US PPI surprises to the upside - inflation is coming. * Greeks give nation's pensioners a "bonus". Greece's creditors are really annoyed - freeze debt forgiveness, sending Greek stocks, bonds sharply lower. 


 
In Oil Face-Off, Saudis, Shale Both Claim Victory 
 

A two-year battle for global oil supremacy that pit Saudi Arabia, head of the powerful oil cartel, against upstart U.S. shale producers left them both badly wounded but with each side claiming victory. 


 
Canada Factory Sales Unexpectedly Decline 
 

Canadian factory shipments unexpectedly declined in October for the worst month-over-month performance in six months, marking another setback. 


 
Crude Prices Rise on Fed Rate Increase 
 

Crude prices unexpectedly rose despite the U.S. Federal Reserve's move to increase interest rates and a report pointing to increased output from OPEC. 


 
Fed Lifts Rates, Signals More Increases Next Year 
 

The Federal Reserve said it would raise its benchmark short-term interest rate for the first time in a year and signaled that rates would rise at a faster pace than previously projected. 


 
BOE Holds Rates, Flags Global Risks 
 

The Bank of England held its benchmark interest rate steady, saying the outlook for the global economy has darkened amid renewed strains in emerging markets from rising interest rates and a strengthening dollar. 


 
Bond Rout Deepens After Fed Rate Signals 
 

Investors dumped government bonds after the Federal Reserve nudged interest rates higher and officials signaled a quicker pace of rate rises next year.

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

December 15, 2016 09:00 ET (14:00 GMT)
   COfed : Federal Reserve Board   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | ejobcl : Jobless Claims | e1103 : Inflation/Prices | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | nfiac : Fixed Income Asset Class News | nhhour : Headlines of the Hour | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1116 : Employment/Unemployment | e12 : Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | ndj : Dow Jones Top Stories | nfact : Factiva Filters | ntop : Top Wire News | redit : Selection of Top Stories/Trends/Analysis   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument DJDN000020161215eccf001zw  



 HDNews Highlights: Top Financial Services News of the Day   WC416 words   PD15 December 2016   ET06:00   SNDow Jones Institutional News   SCDJDN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright © 2016, Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 
   LP
 
U.S. Dollar Surges Broadly on Hawkish Fed 
 

The U.S. dollar is sharply higher in early Asia trading, with the yen hardest hit after the U.S. Federal Reserve announced its first interest rate increase in 2016 overnight and signaled it expects to increase rates more quickly than previously anticipated in 2017. 
   TD
 
Fed More Pessimistic on Economic Growth Than Private Forecasters 
 

Private forecasters are expecting faster growth, higher inflation and higher interest rates following President-elect Donald Trump's election, but Fed officials' newest forecasts for growth and inflation are almost completely unchanged since September. 


 
Fed Lifts Rates, Signals More Increases Next Year 
 

The Federal Reserve said it would raise its benchmark short-term interest rate for the first time in a year and signaled that rates would rise at a faster pace than previously projected. 


 
Ultralong Bonds Are Short-Term Losers 
 

Many investors in long-dated bonds have gone, on paper, from raking in stellar returns to nursing hefty losses. 


 
Fed Officials See More Rate Rises Coming In 2017 
 

Federal Reserve officials now expect to raise short-term interest rate more often next year, amid a little changed economic outlook. 


 
Yellen Leaves Door Open to Stay at Fed After Chairman Term Ends 
 

Janet Yellen wouldn't rule out staying on at the Federal Reserve after her term as chairwoman ends in February 2018. 


 
Citi, Wells Fargo Among Banks With Most Consumer Complaints 
 

Citigroup Inc., Wells Fargo & Co. and Bank of America Corp. were among the banks that received the most consumer complaints filed through a federal watchdog agency in 2016. 


 
Man Surrenders to Face Charges in J.P. Morgan Cyberattack 
 

Joshua Samuel Aaron, a U.S. citizen living in Moscow, is accused of stealing contact information for more than 100 million customers of U.S. financial institutions. 


 
Fees for College Bank Accounts Are Too High, CFPB Says 
 

Fewer college students are using school-sponsored credit cards, but overdraft fees tied to campus bank accounts remain a problem as they can lead students to rack up hundreds of dollars in fees every year, federal regulators said Wednesday. 


 
EU Narrows 
 

The European Commission has narrowed its review of the proposed merger of Deutsche Boerse AG and London Stock Exchange Group PLC, focusing attention primarily on whether the proposed tie up would give the combined company too much power over the clearing of derivative products.

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

December 15, 2016 00:00 ET (05:00 GMT)
   COfed : Federal Reserve Board   INi8150211 : Unit Trusts/Mutual Funds | iinv : Investing/Securities | i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles | ifinal : Financial Services   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | ncdig : Corporate Digests | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | nfiac : Fixed Income Asset Class News | nhhour : Headlines of the Hour | e12 : Monetary Policy | ncat : Content Types | ndj : Dow Jones Top Stories | nfact : Factiva Filters | ntop : Top Wire News | redit : Selection of Top Stories/Trends/Analysis   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument DJDN000020161215eccf000al  



 HDNews Highlights: Top Global Markets News of the Day   WC439 words   PD15 December 2016   ET07:15   SNDow Jones Institutional News   SCDJDN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright © 2016, Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 
   LP
Asia Stocks Fall Following Fed Rate Increase 
 

Asian markets were down across the board after the U.S. Federal Reserve raised interest rates for the first time in a year and pointed to a faster pace of increases than was previously expected. 
   TD
 
U.S. Dollar Surges Broadly on Hawkish Fed 
 

The U.S. dollar is sharply higher in early Asia trading, with the yen hardest hit after the U.S. Federal Reserve announced its first interest rate increase in 2016 overnight and signaled it expects to increase rates more quickly than previously anticipated in 2017. 


 
Fed More Pessimistic on Economic Growth Than Private Forecasters 
 

Private forecasters are expecting faster growth, higher inflation and higher interest rates following President-elect Donald Trump's election, but Fed officials' newest forecasts for growth and inflation are almost completely unchanged since September. 


 
Fed Lifts Rates, Signals More Increases Next Year 
 

The Federal Reserve said it would raise its benchmark short-term interest rate for the first time in a year and signaled that rates would rise at a faster pace than previously projected. 


 
Flat Auto Sales Cloud U.S. Growth Outlook 
 

The auto industry has been a bright spot during much of the recent U.S. economic expansion, but the country's car buyers are showing signs of fatigue, raising concerns over the broader outlook for consumer spending-a key engine of U.S. growth. 


 
Bank of Korea Keeps Base Rate Unchanged at 1.25% 
 

The Bank of Korea kept its base rate unchanged for a sixth straight month as expected, sticking to its cautious wait-and-see stance as it assesses the impact of the latest U.S. rate increase. 


 
BOJ's Measure of Corporate Inflation Expectations Posts Its First Increase 
 

A gauge of Japan's corporate inflation expectations rose for the first time during the fourth quarter, underscoring the broad ripples from Donald Trump's presidential-election victory. 


 
Australia's Unemployment Rate Rises in November Despite Bump in Jobs 
 

Australia's unemployment rate rose to a higher-than-expected 5.7% in November from 5.6% in October. But employment also rose more than expected for the month. 


 
Hong Kong Monetary Authority Raises Base Rate 
 

The Hong Kong Monetary Authority raised its base rate by 0.25 percentage point to 1.0%, matching the overnight interest-rate increase by the U.S. Federal Reserve. 


 
Ultralong Bonds Are Short-Term Losers 
 

Many investors in long-dated bonds have gone, on paper, from raking in stellar returns to nursing hefty losses.

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

December 15, 2016 01:15 ET (06:15 GMT)
   COfed : Federal Reserve Board | hkmoat : Hong Kong Monetary Authority   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | nfiac : Fixed Income Asset Class News | nhhour : Headlines of the Hour | e12 : Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | ndj : Dow Jones Top Stories | nfact : Factiva Filters | ntop : Top Wire News | redit : Selection of Top Stories/Trends/Analysis   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument DJDN000020161215eccf000dw  



 HDNews Highlights: Top Global Markets News of the Day   WC439 words   PD15 December 2016   ET07:00   SNDow Jones Institutional News   SCDJDN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright © 2016, Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 
   LP
 
Asia Stocks Fall Following Fed Rate Increase 
 

Asian markets were down across the board after the U.S. Federal Reserve raised interest rates for the first time in a year and pointed to a faster pace of increases than was previously expected. 
   TD
 
U.S. Dollar Surges Broadly on Hawkish Fed 
 

The U.S. dollar is sharply higher in early Asia trading, with the yen hardest hit after the U.S. Federal Reserve announced its first interest rate increase in 2016 overnight and signaled it expects to increase rates more quickly than previously anticipated in 2017. 


 
Fed More Pessimistic on Economic Growth Than Private Forecasters 
 

Private forecasters are expecting faster growth, higher inflation and higher interest rates following President-elect Donald Trump's election, but Fed officials' newest forecasts for growth and inflation are almost completely unchanged since September. 


 
Fed Lifts Rates, Signals More Increases Next Year 
 

The Federal Reserve said it would raise its benchmark short-term interest rate for the first time in a year and signaled that rates would rise at a faster pace than previously projected. 


 
Flat Auto Sales Cloud U.S. Growth Outlook 
 

The auto industry has been a bright spot during much of the recent U.S. economic expansion, but the country's car buyers are showing signs of fatigue, raising concerns over the broader outlook for consumer spending-a key engine of U.S. growth. 


 
Bank of Korea Keeps Base Rate Unchanged at 1.25% 
 

The Bank of Korea kept its base rate unchanged for a sixth straight month as expected, sticking to its cautious wait-and-see stance as it assesses the impact of the latest U.S. rate increase. 


 
BOJ's Measure of Corporate Inflation Expectations Posts Its First Increase 
 

A gauge of Japan's corporate inflation expectations rose for the first time during the fourth quarter, underscoring the broad ripples from Donald Trump's presidential-election victory. 


 
Australia's Unemployment Rate Rises in November Despite Bump in Jobs 
 

Australia's unemployment rate rose to a higher-than-expected 5.7% in November from 5.6% in October. But employment also rose more than expected for the month. 


 
Hong Kong Monetary Authority Raises Base Rate 
 

The Hong Kong Monetary Authority raised its base rate by 0.25 percentage point to 1.0%, matching the overnight interest-rate increase by the U.S. Federal Reserve. 


 
Ultralong Bonds Are Short-Term Losers 
 

Many investors in long-dated bonds have gone, on paper, from raking in stellar returns to nursing hefty losses.

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

December 15, 2016 01:00 ET (06:00 GMT)
   COfed : Federal Reserve Board | hkmoat : Hong Kong Monetary Authority   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | nfiac : Fixed Income Asset Class News | nhhour : Headlines of the Hour | e12 : Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | ndj : Dow Jones Top Stories | nfact : Factiva Filters | ntop : Top Wire News | redit : Selection of Top Stories/Trends/Analysis   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument DJDN000020161215eccf000gd  



 HDNews Highlights: Top Global Markets News of the Day   WC455 words   PD15 December 2016   ET09:00   SNDow Jones Institutional News   SCDJDN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright © 2016, Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 
   LP
 
Asia Stocks Fall Following Fed Rate Increase 
 

Asian markets were down across the board after the U.S. Federal Reserve raised interest rates for the first time in a year and pointed to a faster pace of increases than was previously expected. 
   TD
 
U.S. Dollar Surges Broadly on Hawkish Fed 
 

The U.S. dollar is sharply higher in early Asia trading, with the yen hardest hit after the U.S. Federal Reserve announced its first interest rate increase in 2016 overnight and signaled it expects to increase rates more quickly than previously anticipated in 2017. 


 
Fed More Pessimistic on Economic Growth Than Private Forecasters 
 

Private forecasters are expecting faster growth, higher inflation and higher interest rates following President-elect Donald Trump's election, but Fed officials' newest forecasts for growth and inflation are almost completely unchanged since September. 


 
Fed Lifts Rates, Signals More Increases Next Year 
 

The Federal Reserve said it would raise its benchmark short-term interest rate for the first time in a year and signaled that rates would rise at a faster pace than previously projected. 


 
Iraq Is Raising, Not Cutting, Oil Exports, Shipping Document Shows 
 

Iraq plans to increase crude-oil exports in January, government records show, immediately raising questions about its commitment to slashing production in line with OPEC's landmark production agreement last month. 


 
Flat Auto Sales Cloud U.S. Growth Outlook 
 

The auto industry has been a bright spot during much of the recent U.S. economic expansion, but the country's car buyers are showing signs of fatigue, raising concerns over the broader outlook for consumer spending-a key engine of U.S. growth. 


 
Bank of Korea Keeps Base Rate Unchanged at 1.25% 
 

The Bank of Korea kept its base rate unchanged for a sixth straight month as expected, sticking to its cautious wait-and-see stance as it assesses the impact of the latest U.S. rate increase. 


 
BOJ's Measure of Corporate Inflation Expectations Posts Its First Increase 
 

A gauge of Japan's corporate inflation expectations rose for the first time during the fourth quarter, underscoring the broad ripples from Donald Trump's presidential-election victory. 


 
Australia's Unemployment Rate Rises in November Despite Bump in Jobs 
 

Australia's unemployment rate rose to a higher-than-expected 5.7% in November from 5.6% in October. But employment also rose more than expected for the month. 


 
Hong Kong Monetary Authority Raises Base Rate 
 

The Hong Kong Monetary Authority raised its base rate by 0.25 percentage point to 1.0%, matching the overnight interest-rate increase by the U.S. Federal Reserve.

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

December 15, 2016 03:00 ET (08:00 GMT)
   COfed : Federal Reserve Board | hkmoat : Hong Kong Monetary Authority   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | nfiac : Fixed Income Asset Class News | nhhour : Headlines of the Hour | e12 : Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | ndj : Dow Jones Top Stories | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | ntop : Top Wire News | redit : Selection of Top Stories/Trends/Analysis   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument DJDN000020161215eccf000q0  



 HDNews Highlights: Top Global Markets News of the Day   WC455 words   PD15 December 2016   ET09:15   SNDow Jones Institutional News   SCDJDN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright © 2016, Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 
   LP
Asia Stocks Fall Following Fed Rate Increase 
 

Asian markets were down across the board after the U.S. Federal Reserve raised interest rates for the first time in a year and pointed to a faster pace of increases than was previously expected. 
   TD
 
U.S. Dollar Surges Broadly on Hawkish Fed 
 

The U.S. dollar is sharply higher in early Asia trading, with the yen hardest hit after the U.S. Federal Reserve announced its first interest rate increase in 2016 overnight and signaled it expects to increase rates more quickly than previously anticipated in 2017. 


 
Fed More Pessimistic on Economic Growth Than Private Forecasters 
 

Private forecasters are expecting faster growth, higher inflation and higher interest rates following President-elect Donald Trump's election, but Fed officials' newest forecasts for growth and inflation are almost completely unchanged since September. 


 
Fed Lifts Rates, Signals More Increases Next Year 
 

The Federal Reserve said it would raise its benchmark short-term interest rate for the first time in a year and signaled that rates would rise at a faster pace than previously projected. 


 
Iraq Is Raising, Not Cutting, Oil Exports, Shipping Document Shows 
 

Iraq plans to increase crude-oil exports in January, government records show, immediately raising questions about its commitment to slashing production in line with OPEC's landmark production agreement last month. 


 
Flat Auto Sales Cloud U.S. Growth Outlook 
 

The auto industry has been a bright spot during much of the recent U.S. economic expansion, but the country's car buyers are showing signs of fatigue, raising concerns over the broader outlook for consumer spending-a key engine of U.S. growth. 


 
Bank of Korea Keeps Base Rate Unchanged at 1.25% 
 

The Bank of Korea kept its base rate unchanged for a sixth straight month as expected, sticking to its cautious wait-and-see stance as it assesses the impact of the latest U.S. rate increase. 


 
BOJ's Measure of Corporate Inflation Expectations Posts Its First Increase 
 

A gauge of Japan's corporate inflation expectations rose for the first time during the fourth quarter, underscoring the broad ripples from Donald Trump's presidential-election victory. 


 
Australia's Unemployment Rate Rises in November Despite Bump in Jobs 
 

Australia's unemployment rate rose to a higher-than-expected 5.7% in November from 5.6% in October. But employment also rose more than expected for the month. 


 
Hong Kong Monetary Authority Raises Base Rate 
 

The Hong Kong Monetary Authority raised its base rate by 0.25 percentage point to 1.0%, matching the overnight interest-rate increase by the U.S. Federal Reserve.

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

December 15, 2016 03:15 ET (08:15 GMT)
   COfed : Federal Reserve Board | hkmoat : Hong Kong Monetary Authority   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | nfiac : Fixed Income Asset Class News | nhhour : Headlines of the Hour | e12 : Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | ndj : Dow Jones Top Stories | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | ntop : Top Wire News | redit : Selection of Top Stories/Trends/Analysis   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument DJDN000020161215eccf000qe  



 SEMarkets   HDGold Gains as Dollar Surge Stalls   BYBy Katherine Dunn    WC361 words   PD16 December 2016   ET14:15   SNThe Wall Street Journal Online   SCWSJO   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
   LPLONDON--Gold prices traded higher on Friday morning in London as the dollar weakened, chipping back Thursday's decline on the back of the Federal Reserve's announcement to raise U.S. interest rates.

The spot gold price was up 0.64% at $1,135.51 a troy ounce in midmorning trade, after declining 1.3% on Thursday to a fresh 10-month low.
   TDOn Friday, the dollar was falling back from multiyear highs on Thursday, following the Fed's decision to raise interest rates.

The WSJ Dollar Index, which measures the dollar against a basket of other currencies, was down 0.17%. A weaker dollar is generally bullish for dollar-denominated commodities, because it makes the metal more affordable for investors who hold other currencies.

An interest-rate increase by the Federal Reserve on the other hand, which had been anticipated for months, is generally bearish for the precious metal. Gold doesn't pay interest, unlike many other investments, and so demand typically falters when rates rise and other instruments become more attractive.

However, analysts had warned ahead of the hike that the impact on gold was largely priced into the market, making Thursday's losses relatively muted. Traders will likely now look ahead to the timing and pace of rate increases in 2017.

Expectations of further rate hikes in the coming year could increase pressure on the metal, said Joni Teves, a strategist at UBS.

"In order for gold to recover, there needs to be a catalyst for markets to pare back current optimism and retrace the recent moves in [interest] rates and the U.S. dollar," Ms. Teves said.

Silver was also making a recovery on Friday, after gold's decline dragged the metal sharply lower on Thursday to its own 10-month low. The metal was up 0.75% at $16.14 a troy ounce in midmorning European trade.

Other precious metals were mixed. Platinum was up 0.27% at $901.70 a troy ounce, while palladium was down 1.06% at $693.60 a troy ounce.

Write to Katherine Dunn at Katherine.Dunn@wsj.com
   COfed : Federal Reserve Board   INi22 : Primary Metals | i224 : Non-ferrous Metals | i22472 : Precious Metals | i814 : Banking | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | ifinal : Financial Services | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSmpcsmt : Precious Metals Markets | m1421 : Gold Markets | e1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gvbod : Government Bodies | m14 : Commodity Markets | m142 : Metals Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter   REuk : United Kingdom | eland : England | asiaz : Asia | namz : North America | usa : United States | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | weurz : Western Europe   IPCANZ.AU | ANZ.NZ | ANZBY | G/FED | I/BKS | I/BNK | I/MNM | I/ONF | I/PPM | M/BSC | M/FCL | N/EMP | N/GENI | N/GPC | N/IEN | N/MET | N/MKT | N/PCS | R/ASI | R/NME | R/US   IPDPRO | SYND | WSJ-PRO-NP | Precious Metals | WSJPRO   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument WSJO000020161216eccg0018j  



 SEEconomy   HDHong Kong Monetary Authority Raises Base Rate; The HKMA raised its base rate by 0.25 percentage point, matching the  Federal Reserve 's increase   BYBy Joanne Chiu    WC229 words   PD15 December 2016   ET06:38   SNThe Wall Street Journal Online   SCWSJO   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
   LPHONG KONG—The Hong Kong Monetary Authority raised its base rate by 0.25 percentage point to 1.0% on Thursday, matching the overnight interest-rate increase by the U.S. Federal Reserve.

The city's currency peg to the U.S. dollar ties its monetary policy to that of the U.S., so the HKMA generally follows in lockstep any rate adjustments by the Fed.
   TDThe de-facto central bank currently keeps the base rate charged through its overnight discount window at either 0.5 percentage point above the lower end of the prevailing U.S. federal-funds target rate or the average of the five-day moving averages of the overnight and one-month Hong Kong interbank offered rates, whichever is higher. However, it is up to individual banks to decide on changes to their deposit and lending rates.

On Wednesday in the U.S., the Fed's policy-setting board said it would raise its target for the federal-funds rate by a quarter percentage point to between 0.50% and 0.75%, pointing to a strengthening labor market nearing full employment and inflation moving more rapidly toward targeted levels.

Write to Joanne Chiu at joanne.chiu@wsj.com
   COfed : Federal Reserve Board | hkmoat : Hong Kong Monetary Authority   INi814 : Banking | ifinal : Financial Services | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSm131 : Money Markets | e1102 : Money Supply | e12 : Monetary Policy | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | e1202 : Interest Rates | e52 : Euro Zone/Currency | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpersf : Personal Finance | gpersi : Personal Investments | gvbod : Government Bodies | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | m14 : Commodity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mcuop : Currency Options | mforx : Forex Derivatives | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | m15 : Derivative Securities | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter   REhkong : Hong Kong | usa : United States | asiaz : Asia | china : China | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America | pacisz : Pacific Islands | puri : Puerto Rico | russ : Russia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | caribz : Caribbean Islands | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | eeurz : Central/Eastern Europe | eurz : Europe | lamz : Latin America | ussrz : CIS Countries   IPCG/FED | G/IGV | I/BKS | I/BNK | M/FCL | M/HKD | M/NND | M/USD | N/AER | N/APIN | N/BKG | N/CBI | N/CBK | N/CMDI | N/CMR | N/DJAE | N/DJG | N/DJGP | N/DJGS | N/DJGV | N/DJI | N/DJIB | N/DJIV | N/DJMS | N/DJRT | N/DJWI | N/DN | N/ECR | N/EMP | N/EMR | N/EWR | N/FCTV | N/FNVW | N/FRP | N/FXTR | N/FXW | N/GENI | N/ICM | N/IEN | N/MFO | N/MKT | N/MON | N/TSY | N/WAER | N/WED | N/WSJC | P/AEQ | P/AEQI | P/AFXB | P/AFXI | P/AFXP | P/EMG | P/FNVW | P/FXTR | P/PRO | P/RCC | P/WMMI | R/ASI | R/CH | R/FE | R/FEO | R/FXAS | R/HK | R/NME | R/PRM | R/US   IPDFEDERAL RESERVE | HKMA | HONG KONG INTEREST RATES | HONG KONG MONETARY AUTHORITY | US INTEREST RATES | PRO | SYND | WSJ-PRO-CB | Central Banks | WSJPRO   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument WSJO000020161215eccf00209  

 Wealth Adviser Daily Briefing: Answering Clients' Rising-Rate Questions; Curated news and analysis for wealth advisers and their clients...
WSJ Blogs, 11:32, 15 December 2016, 1009 words, (English)
The Federal Reserve said Wednesday that it would raise its benchmark short-term interest rate, and expects to lift it more quickly than previously projected in 2017 amid signs of low unemployment, firming inflation and a pickup in economic ...
Document WCWSJB0020161215eccf000dx



 SEEconomy   HDJanet Yellen and Donald Trump Are on the Same Page, for Now; A slow rise in Fed rates would be in sync with the president-elect's desire for growth and low unemployment   BYBy Greg Ip    WC944 words   PD15 December 2016   ET02:18   SNThe Wall Street Journal Online   SCWSJO   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
   LPThe stock market's postelection euphoria got a reality check Wednesday when the Federal Reserveraised interest rates and gently hinted more are in store, in particular if the economy gets a dose of fiscal stimulus.

So is the central bank on a collision course with incoming President Donald Trump? Probably not.
   TDFor at least the next year or two, the interests of Mr. Trump and Fed Chairwoman Janet Yellen are closely aligned. He wants low unemployment and faster economic growth, and she's happy to err on the side of both via the most docile course of interest-rate increases on record, so long as inflation stays low.

Historically, tensions arose between presidents and Fed chairmen as the former wanted low unemployment at any cost, and the latter prioritized low inflation. Today is different. Inflation has persistently been below the Fed's 2% target, and the Fed believes structural changes in the economy mean it can't tolerate a federal-funds rate—what banks charge each other for overnight loans—much above 3%. These two factors are a powerful incentive for Mrs. Yellen to err on the side of easy monetary policy.

Mrs. Yellen is a firm believer in the Phillips curve, which holds that if unemployment falls below some natural rate, the scarcity of labor and other resources pushes wages and prices higher. Fed officials put that natural rate at 4.8%. In November, actual unemployment dropped below that level, to 4.6%.

Yet officials see the jobless rate averaging even less, at 4.5%, for the next three years. "We think that's appropriate because we want inflation to rise to our 2% objective in a timely fashion," she told reporters Wednesday.

November's unexpected drop in unemployment is one reason several Fed officials penciled in three rate increases next year, instead of two, according to projections released after the meeting. Those rate revisions, in turn, sent stocks lower and bond yields higher on Wednesday.

Yet the actual changes were trivial. Averaging all officials' forecasts, the Fed's target for overnight funds is seen rising to 1.37% by the end of next year, up only marginally from 1.31% in September. A more revealing comparison is to March, when the projected average was 2.04%. So despite a job market that continues to perform solidly, officials are sticking to the "new normal" view of interest rates: much lower than they have been historically, for much longer.

In this world, the Fed tends to see bad news as a reason to delay tightening without using good news as a reason to speed up. A few officials think the prospects of Mr. Trump ushering in a big deficit-financed tax cut and spending boost merit an extra rate increase next year, Mrs. Yellen said, but she doesn't appear to be one of them; she would prefer to see the details.

The Fed chairwoman is also inclined to let the unemployment rate test its lower bounds, though. In October, she speculated that letting unemployment run persistently below its natural rate might pull some discouraged workers back into the labor force. On Wednesday, she emphasized she wouldn't allow such an experiment to push inflation above the Fed's target.

One potential flashpoint with Mr. Trump is the dollar. It has rallied sharply since the election on expectations of higher interest rates. That may worsen the U.S. trade deficit, a central preoccupation of Mr. Trump.

Since then-President Bill Clinton adopted the policy of not publicly criticizing the Fed, its chairmen have been largely free to set policy without worrying about what the White House would say. But the days when central bankers stood above the political fray are now over. During the campaign, Mr. Trump accused Mrs. Yellen of holding down rates to help President Barack Obama, and included her in a television ad attacking multinational bankers.

Many of his advisers fret that central banks' stimulative policies, from bond buying to zero or negative interest rates, have done more harm than good. "If we woke up tomorrow and every central bank in the world raised interest rates by 300 basis points, the world would be a better place," Goldman Sachs executive Gary Cohn, soon to become director of Mr. Trump's National Economic Council, said this year.

But those objections may make little practical difference for the next few years since the Fed is moving away from zero anyway. And just as Mr. Trump's campaign attacks on Mr. Obama didn't prevent the two from developing a rapport after the election, his administration's relationship with Mrs. Yellen likely will depend more on her performance than her political party.

Mr. Cohn, after all, is a Democrat. Steven Mnuchin, Mr. Trump's pick for Treasury secretary, has said Mrs. Yellen has done a "good job." Though Mr. Trump has said he'd likely name a Republican when her term expires in early 2018, it is too soon to write off the possibility of reappointment.

Mrs. Yellen declined to speculate on her future, while reminding reporters her term doesn't coincide with the president's for a good reason: it makes it easier to act without fear of political interference. The implicit message is she plans to do what she has to whether Mr. Trump likes it or not. So far, though, there is not a lot to dislike.

Write to Greg Ip at greg.ip@wsj.com


   COfed : Federal Reserve Board   NSe1116 : Employment/Unemployment | e1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | nimage : Images | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ncat : Content Types   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPCG/FED | GS | N/CMR | N/DJN | N/EMP | N/GEN | N/GENI | N/IEN | N/PLT | R/NME | R/US   IPDDONALD TRUMP | FED | FEDERAL RESERVE | GROWTH | INFLATION | JANET YELLEN | NATURAL RATE OF UNEMPLOYMENT | UNEMPLOYMENT RATE | Clinton, Bill | Cohn, Gary | Mnuchin, Steven | Obama, Barack | Trump, Donald | PRO | SYND | WSJ-PRO-CB | WSJ-PRO-WSJ.com | Capital Account | WSJ.com   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument WSJO000020161215eccf0005l  


 CLMHeard on the Street   SEMarkets   HDGlobal Markets: Wrangling With a Waking Fed; A stronger dollar and higher U.S. bond yields are a double-edged sword for global markets   BYBy Richard Barley    WC483 words   PD15 December 2016   ET17:45   SNThe Wall Street Journal Online   SCWSJO   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
   LPThe Federal Reserve looks like it could pull away from the global central-bank pack again. The dollar and U.S. yields are the key swing variables in what that means for the rest of the world.

Markets had pretty much universally expected the Fed to lift interest rates by 0.25 percentage point, and the Fed duly delivered. But the signal that there could be three interest-rate increases in 2017 rather than two has pushed up bond yields and the dollar sharply. The ICE dollar index has risen 1.8% in two days and reached its highest level since 2002, with the euro falling below $1.05 and the yen weakening to ¥118; the 10-year Treasury yield rose above 2.6% Thursday.
   TDFor developed markets such as Europe, the Fed's faith in a U.S. expansion is probably good news. The European Central Bank, despite market anxiety over its decision to extend its bond purchases at a reduced pace, isn't going anywhere on rates—much like other central banks. Monetary-policy divergence is arriving, and clearly visible in the gap between two-year German and U.S. yields, which has vaulted to more than 2 percentage points, having spent months fluctuating around 1.3 points. A weaker euro should help the eurozone and a moderately steeper yield curve is already buoying European bank share prices, which is a positive development.

For emerging markets, the picture is more mixed. Currencies from the Mexican peso to the South African rand fell against the dollar. That could complicate life for borrowers with U.S. dollar-denominated debt. Some countries are clearly facing tests, like Turkey, where the lira has declined by 17.5% this year against the dollar, prompting the central bank to raise rates even as the economy slows. But emerging-market countries already saw big outflows after the so-called taper tantrum of 2013. That makes them potentially less vulnerable. The recovery in commodities prices also should help exporters.

Still, the world is faced with an odd mix of forces. Markets have bought into reflation in the U.S., spurred by Donald Trump's election victory, and the Fed appears to have bought that story too. A stronger U.S. economy should be good news for global growth, which already was showing signs of gaining momentum in the second half of 2016. But at the same time, a more active Fed raises risks in a world where ultra-generous monetary policy has been the buffer against volatility.

Much will depend on the speed of gains in the dollar and yields. Too rapid a spike in either will likely upset global markets.

Write to Richard Barley at richard.barley@wsj.com
   COfed : Federal Reserve Board   NSm13 : Money/Forex Markets | e1102 : Money Supply | e1202 : Interest Rates | e52 : Euro Zone/Currency | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpersf : Personal Finance | gpersi : Personal Investments | gvbod : Government Bodies | m131 : Money Markets | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mcuop : Currency Options | mforx : Forex Derivatives | ncolu : Columns | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Monetary Policy | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | m15 : Derivative Securities | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter   REnamz : North America | safr : South Africa | usa : United States | africaz : Africa | bric : BRICS Countries | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | souafrz : Southern Africa   IPCG/FED | M/EUR | N/CMR | N/DJN | N/ECB | N/GENI | n/hrd | N/IEN | N/MFO | N/MKT | R/AF | R/NME | R/SF | R/US   IPDECB | EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK | FED | FEDERAL RESERVE | INTEREST RATES | RATES | Trump, Donald | PRO | SYND | WSJ-PRO-CB | WSJ-PRO-WSJ.com | Heard on the Street | WSJ.com   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument WSJO000020161215eccf007pu  



 SEEconomy   HDBank of Mexico Moves Policy Rate a Half Percentage Point Higher; The central bank says the decision took the Fed's rate increase into account   BYBy Juan Montes    WC432 words   PD15 December 2016   ET21:06   SNThe Wall Street Journal Online   SCWSJO   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
   LPMEXICO CITY—The Bank of Mexico raised interest rates by a half percentage point Thursday, more than expected by many economists, in a bid to shore up the peso and keep inflation expectations under control.

The central bank said it took into account this week's quarter-point rate increase by the U.S. Federal Reserve in delivering a bolder increase. The peso appreciated in Mexico City after the announcement to 20.3310 to the U.S. dollar from around 20.5125 before the decision.
   TDIt marked the third time in three meetings that Mexico's central bank has raised the overnight interest rate target, which is now at 5.75%, its highest level since early 2009. The bank has raised the rate five times this year.

The increase comes amid growing uncertainty hitting the peso, driven by Donald Trump's election in the U.S. and expectations of higher interest rates north of the border.

The weaker currency, in turn, is starting to have an impact on consumer prices by making imports more expensive. Annual inflation accelerated in November above the central bank's 3% target.

In its policy statement, the central bank said peso volatility could continue as uncertainty is still high over Mr. Trump's trade and investment policies toward Mexico. The U.S. president-elect has said he would seek to renegotiate the terms of the North American Free Trade Agreement, and has been lobbying U.S. companies not to move production and jobs to Mexico.

If the most extreme of Mr. Trump's proposed policies don't materialize, there is room for the peso to appreciate, the Bank of Mexico said.

By making borrowing more expensive, the decision may have the unintended consequence of deepening the economic slowdown in Mexico. The economy is expected to expand just 1.8% next year, given expectations of protectionist policies in the U.S.

Many economists expect the Bank of Mexico to keep raising rates next year more aggressively than the Fed, since higher yields in the U.S. make the peso less attractive for investors.

The central bank sees annual inflation gradually accelerating to end next year slightly below 4%, mainly due to higher gasoline prices and higher goods prices that are pressured by the weak peso.

The economy remains sluggish and growth prospects have deteriorated, as industrial production remains stagnant, the bank added.

Write to Juan Montes at juan.montes@wsj.com
   CObcmeks : Banco de Mexico | fed : Federal Reserve Board   INi814 : Banking | ifinal : Financial Services | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gvbod : Government Bodies | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics   REmex : Mexico | usa : United States | lamz : Latin America | namz : North America | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies   IPCG/FED | I/BKS | I/BNK | M/FCL | M/USD | N/CBK | N/CMR | N/DJN | N/EMP | N/GENI | N/IEN | R/LTM | R/MX | R/NME | R/US   IPDBANK OF MEXICO | BANXICO | INTEREST RATES | MEXICO RATES | Trump, Donald | ALERTABLE | PRO | SYND | WSJ-PRO-CB | WSJ-PRO-WSJ.com | Central Banks | WSJ.com   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument WSJO000020161215eccf00a9h  



 SEEconomy   HDCentral Banks Show Caution Following the Fed's Rate Increase; Banks from Indonesia to Switzerland stand pat on  interest-rate  policy   BYBy Jason Douglas  in London and Brian Blackstone in Zurich    WC743 words   PD15 December 2016   ET21:54   SNThe Wall Street Journal Online   SCWSJO   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
   LPA day after the Federal Reserve said it is lifting borrowing costs in the U.S., central banks elsewhere held fire, revealing a shared caution about the prospects for the global economy in 2017.

The Fed decision comes amid hopes for stronger growth stemming from President-elect Donald Trump's economic plans, but central bank officials from London to Seoul maintained a wait-and-see approach. In several cases, they contrasted those expectations of healthier growth with the political uncertainty stalking the U.S. and Europe, as well as bubbling tensions in emerging markets. How these forces play out will help shape central bank moves in the year ahead.
   TDThe Fed raised short-term interest rates as expected against a backdrop of a strengthening economy, and telegraphed that it expects to ratchet up borrowing costs in 2017 at a quicker pace than previously projected. Mr. Trump has said he plans to cut taxes, boost spending and cut regulations.

In Europe on Thursday, the Bank of England, the Swiss National Bank and Norway's Norges Bank held their benchmark interest rates steady. In Asia late Wednesday, the Bank of Korea did the same, and Bank Indonesia followed suit Thursday.

In a policy statement accompanying its decision to leave its benchmark rate at a low of 0.25%, the Bank of England said faster U.S. growth would be good for the global economy. But its overall assessment was more gloomy: Officials led by Gov. Mark Carney said the risks to growth have increased. They listed concerns including signs of capital flight from China, banking problems in the eurozone and rising borrowing costs in emerging markets.

They also fretted about "policy uncertainty," central-bank speak for the increasing unpredictability of political decisions in an age of electoral surprises. Mr. Trump's anti-globalization rhetoric has raised the specter of trade conflicts, while the U.K.'s ties to the European Union are unclear following June's Brexit vote. Populist parties are hoping to make gains in elections in France and Germany next year.

Similar concerns were voiced on Thursday by Thomas Jordan, chairman of the Swiss National Bank. He said at a press conference that the SNB's outlook for moderate global growth is still subject to "considerable risks," citing uncertainties about U.S. economic policy, elections in the eurozone and what are likely to be "complex and arduous" Brexit negotiations.

The SNB also flagged one key consequence of the Fed's move and expectations of a stronger U.S. economy: the effect on other nations' currencies. In Switzerland, central-bank officials have battled a strong franc for several years, and Mr. Jordan called the Fed's rate increase "a very positive and a very good sign" for the Swiss and global economies.

The franc has weakened about 5% against the U.S. dollar since the U.S. presidential election on Nov. 8, and tighter Fed policy should weaken it further. That decline hasn't spread to the euro, a more important exchange rate for Switzerland given that it exports the bulk of its goods to the rest of Europe.

Indonesia's central bank held its benchmark rate steady as it tries to balance support for the economy against quickening inflation and a weakening currency; it has burned through some $4 billion in foreign-exchange reserves in the past month alone in an effort to defend the rupiah's value. The Bank of Korea stood pat, concerned that lower rates could send foreign cash scurrying out of the country.

The Fed's decision did prompt some central banks to act. The Bank of Mexico raised interest rates by a half percentage point on Thursday in a bid to shore up the peso and keep inflation expectations under control. The central bank said it took the Fed's move into account in delivering a bolder increase than expected. Also, the Hong Kong Monetary Authority, the city's de facto central bank, raised its benchmark rate by a quarter point to maintain its currency's link to the U.S. dollar.

I Made Sentana in Jakarta, Indonesia, and Kwanwoo Jun in Seoul contributed to this article.

Write to Jason Douglas at jason.douglas@wsj.com and Brian Blackstone at brian.blackstone@wsj.com
   COfed : Federal Reserve Board   INi814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services | i81401 : Central Banking   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | e52 : Euro Zone/Currency | e1102 : Money Supply | e12 : Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpersf : Personal Finance | gpersi : Personal Investments | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | m131 : Money Markets | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mcuop : Currency Options | mforx : Forex Derivatives | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | m15 : Derivative Securities | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | switz : Switzerland | asiaz : Asia | china : China | easiaz : Eastern Asia | eecz : European Union Countries | eland : England | eurz : Europe | hkong : Hong Kong | indon : Indonesia | lamz : Latin America | mex : Mexico | namz : North America | norw : Norway | russ : Russia | scandz : Scandinavia | seasiaz : Southeast Asia | skorea : South Korea | sousud : South Sudan | uk : United Kingdom | ussc : South Carolina | weurz : Western Europe | seoul : Seoul | africaz : Africa | apacz : Asia Pacific | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | dach : DACH Countries | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | eafrz : East Africa | eeurz : Central/Eastern Europe | nordz : Nordic Countries | uss : Southern U.S. | ussrz : CIS Countries   IPCG/FED | G/SNB | G/UKBK | I/BKS | I/BNK | M/FCL | N/CBK | N/CMR | N/DJN | N/EEC | N/EMP | N/EMU | N/FRX | N/GEN | N/GENI | N/IEN | N/MFO | N/MKT | N/PLT | R/ASI | R/CH | R/EC | R/ENG | R/EU | R/FEO | R/HK | R/IO | R/LTM | R/MX | R/NME | R/NOY | R/SCA | R/SK | R/SSA | R/SZ | R/UK | R/US | R/WEU | SNBN.EB   IPDBANK INDONESIA | BANK OF ENGLAND | BANK OF KOREA | BOE | BOK | CENTRAL BANKS | INTEREST RATES | RATE DECISIONS | SNB | SWISS NATIONAL BANK | Jordan, Thomas | Mark Carney | Trump, Donald | PRO | SYND | WSJ-PRO-CB | WSJ-PRO-WSJ.com | WSJ.com   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument WSJO000020161215eccf0096m  



 SEEconomy   HDBOE Holds Rates, Flags Global Risks; U.K. central bank keeps main rate at 0.25% and will proceed with program of bond purchases   BYBy Jason Douglas and Paul Hannon    WC443 words   PD15 December 2016   ET13:19   SNThe Wall Street Journal Online   SCWSJO   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
   LPLONDON—The Bank of England held its benchmark interest rate steady Thursday, saying the outlook for the global economy has darkened amid renewed strains in emerging markets from rising interest rates and a strengthening dollar.

The U.K. central bank said in a statement that its nine-member Monetary Policy Committee unanimously agreed to keep the BOE's main rate at a low of 0.25% and to proceed with a £70 billion ($88 billion) program of bond purchases announced in the summer.
   TDThe U.K. economy appears to be growing healthily in the second half of the year but officials continue to expect a slowdown in 2017, according to minutes of the panel's deliberations.

A slide in the pound since the U.K. voted to leave the European Union in June is fueling faster inflation, which officials said they expect to weigh on household spending next year. They noted the pound has in recent weeks recovered some of its earlier losses, but added they still expect annual inflation to overshoot their 2% target next year.

Sterling fell to a 2-week low against the dollar of $1.2455 after the BOE announcement, from around $1.2483 earlier in the day.

The BOE's decision to hold rates steady comes a day after the Federal Reserveraised short-term borrowing costs in the U.S. and telegraphed that interest rates would rise at a faster pace in 2017 than previously projected.

The Fed's decision comes amid hopes of stronger growth in the U.S. spurred by President-elect Donald Trump's plans to cut taxes, boost spending and cut regulations.

In its assessment, the BOE noted that the new administration's plans may lift growth prospects for the global economy—but added that risks to that outlook have also intensified. Among officials' concerns were capital flight from China, banking problems in the eurozone and rising borrowing costs in some emerging markets.

"The global outlook has become more fragile," the MPC said, citing an increase in "policy uncertainty."

Officials stuck to previous statements on the future path of interest rates, saying they stand ready to raise or lower borrowing costs depending on the how the economy performs. They reiterated that they are willing to tolerate a brief overshoot of their 2% inflation goal to support growth, but that this tolerance has limits.

Write to Jason Douglas at jason.douglas@wsj.com and Paul Hannon at paul.hannon@wsj.com
   CObnkeng : Bank of England   INi814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gvbod : Government Bodies | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter   REuk : United Kingdom | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | usa : United States | weurz : Western Europe | namz : North America   IPCG/FED | G/IGV | G/UKBK | I/BNK | N/AER | N/CBK | N/CMR | N/DJN | N/ECR | N/EEC | N/EMP | N/EMR | N/GENI | N/ICM | N/IEN | N/VOT | N/WER | R/EC | R/EU | R/UK | R/WEU   IPDBOE | BOND PROGRAM | BREXITINSET | DONALD TRUMP | FEDERAL RESERVE | INTEREST RATES | JANET YELLEN | MARK CARNEY | QE | UK | Trump, Donald | PRO | SYND | WSJ-PRO-CB | WSJ-PRO-WSJ.com | Central Banks | WSJ.com   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument WSJO000020161215eccf00439  



 CLMHeard on the Street   SEMarkets   HDGlobal Markets: Wrangling With a Waking Fed; A stronger dollar and higher U.S. bond yields are a double-edged sword for global markets   BYBy Richard Barley    WC482 words   PD15 December 2016   ET16:21   SNThe Wall Street Journal Online   SCWSJO   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
   LPThe Federal Reserve looks as if it could pull away from the global central-bank pack again. The dollar and U.S. yields are the key swing variables in what that means for the rest of the world.

Markets had pretty much universally expected the Fed to lift interest rates by 0.25 percentage point, and the Fed duly delivered. But the signal that there could be three interest-rate increases in 2017 rather than two has pushed up bond yields and the dollar sharply. The ICE dollar index has risen 1.8% in two days and reached its highest level since 2002, with the euro falling below $1.05 and the yen weakening to ¥118; the 10-year Treasury yield rose above 2.6% Thursday.
   TDFor developed markets such as Europe, the Fed's faith in a U.S. expansion is probably good news. The European Central Bank, despite market nerves over its decision to extend its bond purchases at a reduced pace, isn't going anywhere on rates—much like other central banks. Monetary-policy divergence is arriving, and clearly visible in the gap between two-year German and U.S. yields, which has vaulted to over 2 percentage points, having spent months fluctuating around 1.3 points. A weaker euro should help the eurozone and a moderately steeper yield curve is already buoying European bank share prices, which is a positive development.

For emerging markets, the picture is more mixed. Currencies from the Mexican peso to the South African rand fell against the dollar. That could complicate life for borrowers with U.S. dollar-denominated debt. Some countries are clearly facing tests, like Turkey, where the lira has declined by 17.5% this year against the dollar, prompting the central bank to raise rates even as the economy slows. But emerging countries already saw big outflows after the so-called taper tantrum of 2013. That makes them potentially less vulnerable. The recovery in commodities prices also should help exporters.

Still, the world is faced with an odd mix of forces. Markets have bought into reflation in the U.S., spurred by Donald Trump's election victory, and the Fed appears to have bought that story, too. A stronger U.S. economy should be good news for global growth, which already was showing signs of gaining momentum in the second half of 2016. But at the same time, a more active Fed raises risks in a world where ultra-generous monetary policy has been the buffer against volatility.

Much will depend on the speed of gains in the dollar and yields. Too rapid a surge in either would likely upset global markets.

Write to Richard Barley at richard.barley@wsj.com
   COfed : Federal Reserve Board   INi814 : Banking | ifinal : Financial Services | i81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSm13 : Money/Forex Markets | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e1102 : Money Supply | e12 : Monetary Policy | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | e1202 : Interest Rates | e52 : Euro Zone/Currency | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpersf : Personal Finance | gpersi : Personal Investments | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m131 : Money Markets | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mcpdbt : Corporate Debt/Bond Markets | mcuop : Currency Options | mforx : Forex Derivatives | ncolu : Columns | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | m15 : Derivative Securities | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter   REnamz : North America | safr : South Africa | usa : United States | africaz : Africa | bric : BRICS Countries | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | souafrz : Southern Africa   IPC5090 | G/FED | I/BKS | I/BNK | M/EUR | M/FCL | N/BON | N/CBI | N/CBK | N/CMR | N/CNW | N/DJN | N/ECB | N/ECR | N/EMP | N/ENTR | N/FRP | N/FRX | N/GENI | Heard on the Street | N/IEN | N/MFO | N/MKT | N/POV | N/WER | R/AF | R/NME | R/SF | R/US   IPDFED | FED-FUNDS RATE | FED RATE HIKE | FED RATE INCREASE | REFLATION | TRUMP | U.S. ECONOMY | U.S. INTEREST RATES | YELLEN | Trump, Donald | PRO | SYND | WSJ-PRO-CB | WSJ-PRO-WSJ.com | Heard on the Street | WSJ.com   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument WSJO000020161215eccf006pr  



 SEMarkets   HDChina Halts Trading in Key Bond Futures as Panicky Investors Sell Securities; Slowing growth, capital outflows fuel concerns that bull market is coming to an end   WC1,107 words   PD16 December 2016   ET01:05   SNThe Wall Street Journal Online   SCWSJO   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
   LPSHANGHAI—Chinese bond yields soared and authorities halted trading in some futures contracts for the first time on Thursday, as a global bond-market selloff worsened a day after the Federal Reserve signaled a quicker pace of interest-rate increases next year.

The Chinese 10-year government bond yield, which rises when prices fall, hit a 16-month high of 3.4%, extending selling that began in late November and accelerated this week amid slowing growth, outflows of capital and concerns over asset bubbles.
   TDIn early trading, the 10-year and five-year government-bond futures recorded their biggest ever drops in price, falling by 2% and 1.2%, respectively, leading exchange authorities to suspend the securities.

Trading resumed only after China's central bank injected about $22 billion into the short-term money market.

Later in the global day, the selling sent the yield on the 10-year U.S. Treasury note to 2.639%, before settling at 2.580%, compared with 2.523% the day before. It marks the yield's highest close since September 2014.

The Fed raised its benchmark policy rate by a quarter of a percentage point on Wednesday, as investors had expected. But the central bank also forecast three more rate increases in 2017, a surprise for investors.

"The market was not expecting a change," said Mike Amey, a portfolio manager at Pacific Investment Management Co. "You can see that in the reaction in the market."

Prices of short-dated bonds, which are particularly sensitive to changes in monetary policy, also weakened. The yield on the two-year Treasury note rose 0.023 percentage point to 1.261%.

In Europe, the yield on 10-year German government bonds rose 0.062 percentage point, to 0.363%, while the yield on equivalent Australian debt jumped almost 0.2 percentage point, to 2.903%.

U.K. government bonds were among the hardest hit. The yield on the 10-year note declined slightly after the Bank of England said it would keep interest rates and its bond-buying program steady Thursday, but remained up 0.1 percentage point, at 1.352%.

During the summer, bond prices rallied, sending yields to record lows following the U.K.'s vote to leave the European Union. Investors piled into government bonds, especially long-term debt, as they expected a prolonged period of soft global growth, low inflation and ultraloose monetary stimulus from major central banks in Japan and Europe.

But global data over the past few months have shown an improved economic outlook and a slight rise in inflation pressure, causing investors to lighten up on bonds. That narrative has been gaining traction since the U.S. election on Nov. 8, as expectations have been increasing that expansive fiscal policy, lower taxes and lighter regulation proposed by U.S. President-elect Donald Trump would lead to stronger growth and higher inflation.

Between Election Day and this past Wednesday, the global bond selloff has wiped out $1.45 trillion in market value from the Bloomberg Barclays Global Treasury index, which tracks government bonds in both developed and developing countries.

Chinese investors appear to think the Fed's move increases the chance China will guide its own rates higher to stem the yuan's recent decline against the dollar and heavy capital outflows from the country.

But the bond-market slump also exacerbates the policy dilemma facing China's central bank. The People's Bank of China has tightened short-term lending in recent weeks in an effort to make it harder for speculative investors to borrow money. The problem is that such tightening moves—along with any future rate increases—could provoke market plunges and panics as liquidity dries up.

"The Chinese bond bull market is over, as we have seen a turning point in money-market rates this year," said Yang Delong, chief economist at Shenzhen-based First Seafront Fund Management Co., which has $6 billion under management, referring to a tightening of liquidity in China that began this autumn and has recently gathered pace.

China has unleashed a wave of easy credit and fiscal stimulus in recent years to keep its slowing economy afloat. Chinese investors were able to benefit by borrowing cheap money and pouring it into assets from bonds to housing to commodities, producing what some economists have described as a series of unsustainable bubbles.

Some of these bubbles have burst over the past 18 months, with the crash in China's stock market in the summer of 2015 the most notable example. Now the pain has spread to the $9 trillion bond market, which remains overwhelmingly driven by domestic investors, despite some opening up to foreigners this year. The yield on 10-year government bonds had dropped as low as 2.6% in August.

"People woke up to the fact that the bond bubble is too large," said Hao Hong, co-head of research at BoCom International, which is owned by Hong Kong's Bank of Communications. "The bond market in China is under severe pressure, across the board."

Underscoring the skittish feeling among investors, Thursday's selling pressure was also driven by rumors spreading through the markets. A midsize Chinese brokerage denied a report in a major Chinese newspaper that it had defaulted on a large bond payment. One of the country's biggest fund managers, meanwhile, denied a rumor circulating on cellphone chat groups that it was facing large redemptions.

Analysts said such rumors carried weight because many fund managers are heavily in debt, making them vulnerable to declining bond prices.

"The market is very sensitive to rumors now," said Ke Congwei, a fixed-income analyst at Guosen Securities, based in Shenzhen.

The bond selloff adds to broader concerns about the Chinese economy, which likely expanded at its slowest pace in more than 25 years in 2016, weighed down by an increasing debt load and money-losing state-owned industries.

China is also grappling with large-scale capital outflows. The country has lost about $1.2 trillion of its foreign reserves, or around a quarter of its total, in the past two years as billionaires and average citizens transfer savings to the safety of overseas markets.

To stem the outflows, authorities are using measures such as restricting overseas company acquisitions, transactions that could be fronts for spiriting money out of the country.

Yifan Xie, John Lyons and Min Zeng

Related

* Dollar's Rise Triggers Global Rout

* Higher U.S. Rates Put Pressure on Yuan
   COpbchin : The People's Bank of China | fed : Federal Reserve Board   NSmntdbt : National Government Debt/Bond Markets | e1102 : Money Supply | e1202 : Interest Rates | e52 : Euro Zone/Currency | gpersf : Personal Finance | gpersi : Personal Investments | gvbod : Government Bodies | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | m131 : Money Markets | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | m14 : Commodity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mcpdbt : Corporate Debt/Bond Markets | mcuop : Currency Options | mforx : Forex Derivatives | ginvbn : Personal Investments in Bonds | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gfxiin : Fixed Income Investing | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | m15 : Derivative Securities | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter   REchina : China | asiaz : Asia | easiaz : Eastern Asia | gfr : Germany | namz : North America | russ : Russia | uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | apacz : Asia Pacific | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | dach : DACH Countries | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | eecz : European Union Countries | eeurz : Central/Eastern Europe | eurz : Europe | ussrz : CIS Countries | weurz : Western Europe   IPC3328.HK | 601328.SH | G/FED | G/GEGV | G/TRE | G/UKBK | G/UKGV | N/BON | N/MFO | N/MKT | N/MON | N/PBOC | N/SDT | R/ASI | R/CH | R/FEO | R/NME | R/US   IPDASSET BUBBLES | BOND BULL MARKET | CHINA BOND MARKETS | CHINA HALTS BOND TRADING | INTEREST RATES | Amey, Mike | Trump, Donald | PRO | SYND | WSJ-PRO-CB | WSJ-PRO-FR | WSJ-PRO-WSJ.com | Credit Markets | WSJ.com   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument WSJO000020161215eccf003ux  



 SEEconomy   HDBank of Korea Keeps Base Rate Unchanged at 1.25%; Central bank hesitant to lower rates due to concerns over rising household debt, risk of capital flight as Fed signals faster-than-expected rate increases   BYBy Kwanwoo Jun    WC652 words   PD15 December 2016   ET05:24   SNThe Wall Street Journal Online   SCWSJO   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
   LPSEOUL—The Bank of Korea kept its base rate unchanged for a sixth straight month as expected, sticking to its cautious wait-and-see stance as it assesses the impact on the economy of the latest U.S. rate increase and political uncertainty stemming from the impeachment of President Park Geun-hye.

The bank's decision came in a unanimous vote, Bank of Korea Gov. Lee Ju-yeol said at a press conference, just hours after the Federal Reserve raised a key interest rate for the first time in a year and signaled a more hawkish stance on expected policy tightening next year.
   TDThe Bank of Korea remains hesitant to lower rates because of concerns over household debt growing rapidly on cheaper borrowing costs and the risk of capital flight with the Fed signaling rates would increase at a pace faster than markets had expected over the coming year.

The bank said in a policy statement Korea's economy will likely sustain modest growth but "the downside risks to the future growth path have expanded a bit, owing chiefly to the high degrees of uncertainty in recent domestic and external conditions." Gov. Lee said the pace of future U.S. rate rises and how President-elect Donald Trump's protectionist stance will translate into policy were among the risk factors that can undermine Korea's economic growth.

Last week's impeachment of Ms. Park over a political scandal has also added to uncertainty over the future direction of policy and the economy, making it more difficult for the central bank to justify action now.

All 15 market analysts polled by The Wall Street Journal ahead of the decision had expected the bank to hold the policy rate steady at a record-low 1.25% at its December meeting. The bank last cut the rate in June.

Still, most analysts say Korea's anemic economy needs additional fiscal and monetary stimulus, even though some of them have recently pushed back or scaled down their expectations for policy easing amid growing political uncertainty at home and abroad.

"With the Fed just having hiked rates, the Bank of Korea is waiting for the dust to settle. However, Korean exports continue to face stiff headwinds and local demand, especially construction, is likely to cool in the coming months," said Frederic Neumann, a co-head of Asian Economic Research at HSBC. He expects the bank to cut the base rate as early as the first half of 2017.

Korea's exports—accounting for half the country's growth—are still wobbly amid sluggish global demand, despite a rebound in November for the first time in three months. Inflation remains subdued with consumer prices rising 1.3% in November—below the central bank's annual target of 2%. Private spending and business investment remain frail in Korea.

The Korea Development Institute, a state-run think tank, said in a twice-a-year outlook last week it expects the country to grow 2.4% in 2017—slower than its previous estimate of 2.7% growth—as sluggish exports and weak domestic demand drag on the economy.

The downward revision prompted the institute to call on the central bank to continue its accommodative policy and cut its base rate further, if needed, to help counter headwinds from weak global trade, growing international protectionism and other risks to growth.

Tieying Ma, an economist of DBS Bank, said South Korea's central bank may have to stand pat throughout 2017. "There is growing need for the Bank of Korea to balance the risks of economic slowdown, inflation and capital outflows," Mr. Ma said.

Write to Kwanwoo Jun at kwanwoo.jun@wsj.com
   CObnkkor : Bank of Korea | fed : Federal Reserve Board   INi814 : Banking | ifinal : Financial Services | i81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies   REskorea : South Korea | asiaz : Asia | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America | russ : Russia | usa : United States | apacz : Asia Pacific | bric : BRICS Countries | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | eeurz : Central/Eastern Europe | eurz : Europe | ussrz : CIS Countries   IPCG/FED | I/BKS | I/BNK | M/FCL | N/AER | N/CBK | N/CMR | N/DJN | N/ECR | N/EMP | N/EMR | N/GEN | N/GENI | N/IEN | N/PLT | N/WER | P/PRO | R/ASI | R/FEO | R/NME | R/SK | R/US   IPDTrump, Donald | PRO | SYND | WSJ-PRO-CB | WSJ-PRO-NP | Central Banks | WSJPRO   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument WSJO000020161215eccf000xd  



 SEEconomy   HDCreighton's Take: Reserve Politics Could Get Nasty; The Fed is on course to pay more than $30 billion a year – around a fifth of the U.S. banking sector's annual profits – in interest on bank reserves by the end of 2017.   BYBy Adam Creighton    WC438 words   PD16 December 2016   ET12:35   SNThe Wall Street Journal Online   SCWSJO   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
   LPOnce the novelty of rising interest rates and sunnier economic prospects wears off, the Federal Reserve might want to prepare for another bout of political scrutiny over how it conducts monetary policy.

The incoming Republican administration will likely welcome the Fed well-telegraphed decision to raise the federal-funds rate range by a quarter percentage point to a range between 0.5% and 0.75% as a sign of economic recovery.
   TDBut the monetary policy sausage factory might prove as unseemly as its fiscal cousin. Rising rates will mean steadily rising Fed payments to an unpopular political constituency: large foreign and Wall Street banks.

The Fed sets the top of the fed-funds rate range with the interest rate it pays on the money banks park at the central bank, called reserves. On Thursday, the Fed increased the rate on reserves by a quarter point, to 0.75%.

While few Americans are likely to enjoy higher rates on their savings deposits, the Fed action will lift payments on the banks' $2.1 trillion in reserves by around $5 billion a year.

Around a third of reserves are held by subsidiaries of foreign banks and much of the remainder by the Wall Street giants.

Congress gave the Fed the power to make the interest payments, but lawmakers have criticized it at times. Fed Chairwoman Janet Yellen has defended it as a needed tool for managing short-term interest rates.

The chorus of disapproval could grow louder as rates rise in coming years.

The Fed is on course to pay more than $30 billion a year – around a fifth of the U.S. banking sector's annual profits – in interest on bank reserves by the end of 2017, if the fed-funds rate rises by another three quarters of a percentage point, as officials anticipate. (This assumes the level of reserves remains roughly the same.)

For monetary policy aficionados, these payments shouldn't matter: the banks would have been earning revenue – and probably more – from the Treasurys and mortgage securities they owned before the Fed purchased them.

Nonetheless, having an agency of government hand over such a large sum on reserves – an asset that individuals and other businesses aren't able to access – might not look good, especially for a Republican administration that tips its hat to the virtues of the free market.


   COfed : Federal Reserve Board   INi81402 : Commercial Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services | i81401 : Central Banking   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | nimage : Images | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPCG/FED | G/IGV | I/BKS | I/BNK | M/FCL | N/AER | N/CBK | N/CMR | N/DJN | N/ECR | N/EMP | N/EMR | N/GEN | N/GENI | N/ICM | N/IEN | N/PLT | P/PRO | R/NME | R/US   IPDJanet Yellen | PRO | SYND | WSJ-PRO-CB | Central Banks | WSJPRO   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument WSJO000020161216eccg00335  


 SEEconomy   HDYellen Says the Fed Isn't ‘Behind the Curve' in Raising Rates; Fed chief says she expects the economy to expand at a moderate pace over the next few years   BYBy WSJ Staff    WC775 words   PD14 December 2016   ET21:35   SNThe Wall Street Journal Online   SCWSJO   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
   LPFederal Reserve Chairwoman Janet Yellen addresses the media following the central bank's decision Wednesday to lift its benchmark \b interest rate\b0  by a quarter percentage point to 0.50% and 0.75%. Fed officials also indicated they see a brightening economic outlook and expect to raise short-term rates next year by another 0.75 percentage point—likely in three quarter-point moves. Here are highlights from her appearance:
   TD--Ms. Yellen said that monetary policy remains accommodative, but only moderately so, and she noted that inflation remains below the central bank's 2% annual target. Officials expect the jobless rate to hover below its normal level in the coming years, she added, but it isn't a "substantial undershoot" and is seen as helpful in boosting inflation back to healthy levels. "I do not judge that we are behind the curve," Ms. Yellen concluded—with the usual caveat that the outlook is always uncertain and officials will adjust their thinking as the future unfolds.

--Asked if she will serve out her term as Fed chief and her much longer term as a Fed governor, Ms. Yellen responded, "I do intend to serve out my four-year term" as Fed leader. "I haven't made any decision about the future. I recognize I might or might not be reappointed. It's a decision I don't have to make and don't have thoughts on at this time." She acknowledged the questioner's point that she could stay on as a Fed governor, which is a 14-year term: "That's a decision for another day."

--Inside the Fed, policy makers recognize there is "considerable uncertainty" about possible policy changes and their potential economic effects as a new president and new Congress prepare to take office, Ms. Yellen said. Those changes will have to be factored into the Fed's decisions and outlook, she said—once they take definite shape. "We're operating under a cloud of uncertainty at the moment," Ms. Yellen said.

--Ms. Yellen confirmed the Fed has been in touch with President-elect Donald Trump's transition team and "we share the objective that the whole government has to work constructively to ensure a smooth transition." She also took the opportunity to emphasize how important she believes it is not to entirely dismantle the postcrisis regulatory project. "On financial regulation, I feel that we lived through a devastating financial crisis that took a huge toll on our economy and most members of Congress and the public came away from that experience thinking it was important to take a set of steps that would result in a safer and stronger financial system," Ms. Yellen said.

--Ms. Yellen said the Fed's economic projections are very similar to those made in September, and that she expects the economy to expand at a moderate pace over the next few years. "Looking ahead, we expect job conditions will strengthen somewhat further," she said. Characterizing the Fed's economic forecasts, she said that "growth is a touch stronger, unemployment is a shade lower."

--Regarding the Fed's markup to what it expects for the path of its benchmark rate next year, Ms. Yellen stressed that "this is a very modest adjustment in the path of the federal-funds rate," with only some officials changing their projections.

--Asked if a reduction in corporate tax rates could spur productivity gains, Ms. Yellen implied that they might but declined to get drawn into specifics. "Policies that would improve productivity growth would include policy changes that enhance education, training, workforce development, policies that spur either private or public investment to enhance the quality of capital in the United States, and policies that spur innovation or competition or the formation of new firms. So tax policies can have that effect." She added: "It really depends on the specifics. I can't say anything in general about what tax policy would do."

--Ms. Yellen said regulators are planning to undertake a broad review of compliance and the management of compliance risk at the largest financial institutions given recent failures at some firms. While she didn't mention any specific firms by name, she said there is "certainly room for improvement."

Read More

* Graphic: Markets React to the Fed

* Parsing the Fed: How the December Statement Changed

* Forecasts Surrounded by Greater Uncertainty Than Usual

* Economists React: ‘A Bit Hawkish'

* Interest Rates Are Rising. Here's Why Your Deposit Rate Isn't
   COfed : Federal Reserve Board   NSe12 : Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gvbod : Government Bodies | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1101 : Economic Growth | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics   REusa : United States | usdc : Washington DC | namz : North America | uss : Southern U.S.   IPCG/FED | N/CBK | N/CMR | N/DJN | N/ECO | N/EMP | N/GENI | N/IEN | P/PRO | R/DC | R/US   IPDTrump, Donald | ALERTABLE | PRO | SYND | WSJ-PRO-CB | Central Banks | WSJPRO   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument WSJO000020161214ecce009su  



 SEEconomy   HDFed's Lacker Says Gradual Rate Rises Could Mean Three Moves or More; Says have been "definitive signs" inflation is moving back up to 2%   BYBy Michael S. Derby and Eliza Wirebeck    WC261 words   PD16 December 2016   ET23:31   SNThe Wall Street Journal Online   SCWSJO   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
   CXCorrections & Amplifications:

Mr. Lacker said that as he looks ahead, "there's a tremendous amount that's uncertain. Given all that's been said—given current information—as a forecasting exercise, a forecaster would be prudent to factor in some measure of fiscal stimulus." An earlier version of this article incorrectly quoted the central banker. (Dec. 16, 2016)
   LPCHARLOTTE, N.C.—Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond President Jeffrey Lacker said Friday three rate increases are possible in 2017 but he isn't exactly sure how much the U.S. central bank will have to boost borrowing costs going forward.

"I think there's a range of interest-rate hikes that would qualify as gradual including paces that are more rapid than one or two a year—or three a year," Mr. Lacker said in an appearance in Charlotte, N.C.
   TDThe policy maker has been a consistent advocate of raising rates and found himself at odds with his colleagues over much of 2017. The Fed raised rates this week and penciled in around three rate rises for next year, although the outlook is somewhat uncertain given the unexpected election of Donald Trump and continued Republican control of congress.

Mr. Lacker observed that as he looks ahead, "there's a tremendous amount that's uncertain. Given all that's been said—given current information—as a forecasting exercise, a forecaster would be prudent to factor in some measure of fiscal stimulus."

In his comments, Mr. Lacker said there have been "definitive signs" inflation is moving back up to 2%. He says central bankers need to stay attuned to labor market pressures that could push prices higher.

Write to Michael S. Derby at michael.derby@wsj.com
   COfed : Federal Reserve Board   INi814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services   NSe12 : Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gvbod : Government Bodies | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | ncrx : Corrected Items | e1103 : Inflation/Prices | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America | usnc : North Carolina | uss : Southern U.S.   IPCG/FED | G/IGV | I/BNK | N/AER | N/CBK | N/CMR | N/DJN | N/ECR | N/EMP | N/EMR | N/GENI | N/ICM | N/IEN | P/PRO | R/NC | R/NME | R/US | R/USS   IPDJeffrey Lacker | Trump, Donald | PRO | SYND | WSJ-PRO-CB | WSJ-PRO-NP | Central Banks | WSJPRO   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument WSJO000020161216eccg009n9  



 SEEconomy   HDBank Indonesia Leaves Interest Rates Unchanged; Indonesian central bank keeps benchmark seven-day reverse repurchase rate at 4.75%   BYBy I Made Sentana    WC391 words   PD15 December 2016   ET11:49   SNThe Wall Street Journal Online   SCWSJO   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
   LP?JAKARTA—Bank Indonesia left interest rates unchanged Thursday following the Federal Reserve's move overnight to raise U.S. interest rates and flag a faster pace of increases to come, developments that could put renewed pressure on Indonesia's currency.

The Indonesian central bank said it decided to keep the benchmark seven-day reverse repurchase rate at 4.75%. All 13 economists polled by The Wall Street Journal had forecast the bank would leave rates intact.
   TDBank Indonesia has cut borrowing costs by 1.5 percentage points so far this year to stimulate Southeast Asia's largest economy, most recently in September. But economists expected the central bank to hold fire in December while the impact of the U.S. interest rate increase filters through markets and the likely policy stance of U.S. President-elect Donald Trump becomes clearer.

"In the future, the risks that we should watch are the policy direction in the U.S., especially the fiscal policy and the rebalancing of China's economy," Bank Indonesia's spokesman Tirta Segara said.

Since Mr. Trump's election victory, the central bank has been active in markets to defend the rupiah, burning through $4 billion of its reserves in November after global investors pulled funds from emerging markets following the U.S. election.

Bank Indonesia has also signaled its doubts over whether rate cuts are the best way to help the economy, with an uptick in inflation adding to reasons for holding off on lowering rates.

Bank Indonesia's senior deputy governor, Mirza Adityaswara, recently said the economic impact from reducing rates was becoming limited, indicating that the bank should explore other policies to help bolster growth.

Mr. Segara said Bank Indonesia believes that the recent policy easing will continue to help spur economic growth.

Looking ahead, potentially higher oil prices next year would translate into additional inflationary pressure, keeping the bank from easing in the near-term, though many analysts say price growth is still likely to remain within the central bank's 3%-5% target range.

Indonesia's consumer price index rose by a higher-than-forecast 3.6% year over year in November.

Write to I Made Sentana at i-made.sentana@wsj.com
   CObkindo : Bank Indonesia   INi814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gvbod : Government Bodies | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter   REindon : Indonesia | asiaz : Asia | namz : North America | seasiaz : Southeast Asia | sousud : South Sudan | usa : United States | africaz : Africa | apacz : Asia Pacific | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | eafrz : East Africa   IPCG/FED | G/IGV | I/BNK | N/AER | N/CBK | N/CMR | N/DJN | N/ECR | N/EMP | N/EMR | N/GENI | N/ICM | N/IEN | N/WER | P/PRO | R/ASI | R/IO | R/NME | R/SSA | R/US   IPDBANK INDONESIA | INDONESIA | INTEREST RATES | WIDODO | Trump, Donald | PRO | SYND | WSJ-PRO-CB | Central Banks | WSJPRO   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument WSJO000020161215eccf0030d  



 SELEADER   HDThe Fed pulls the trigger on higher interest rates; This week's increase in borrowing costs comes across as premature   WC612 words   PD16 December 2016   SNFinancial Times   SCFTFT   EDUSA Ed1   PG10   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2016 The Financial Times Ltd. All rights reserved. Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the web. 
   LPBy the time it came, the US Federal Reserve's first interest rate rise in 2016 - only the second since the tightening cycle began last year - was no surprise. The ground had been carefully prepared by comments from officials.

But the fact that Wednesday's move was expected does not mean it was wise. The Fed has been hunting around for evidence to raise rates for a while, in the belief that monetary policy is unnaturally loose and it should seize any credible excuse to tighten.
   TDThe problem with this approach is that it risks premature rises on the basis of overinterpreted data. On balance, that is what the Fed has done on this occasion.

If Donald Trump, as promised, executes a large fiscal expansion in the coming years, tighter monetary policy will most likely be needed. But at present, with inflation having undershot the target for so long and inflation expectations still low, there is no compelling reason to raise the cost of borrowing. This is all the more true when higher long-term rates and a stronger dollar - the market's response to the anticipated Trump programme - are tightening the monetary conditions already.

As it has for years, the Fed pinned its expectation of future higher inflation on expansion in the real side of the economy, particularly the labour market. But while unemployment has continued to decline, evidence of a wage-price spiral remains thin. Inflation has consistently undershot forecasts - including the Fed's - in recent years despite reasonable economic growth, suggesting that estimates of full capacity in the economy are unreliable guides for monetary policy.

A rebalancing of monetary policy based on a more expansionary fiscal policy would be welcome. But Mr Trump's infrastructure spending plans remain opaque. Some of his comments suggest giving tax cuts to corporations without increasing investment . It is premature to be raising borrowing costs - or indeed signalling higher rates next year - on the basis of second-guessing what may happen.

The same applies to any effort to forestall influence Mr Trump may seek to exert on the Fed, not least because the direction of such pressure will be unclear. During the election campaign the Republican candidate strongly criticised Janet Yellen , the Fed chair, for keeping interest rates low.

Yet Mr Trump's interests may change once he is in office and wants strong growth to boost his popularity. In the past Mr Trump has described himself as a "low interest rate guy," and few property developers have an instinctive aversion to cheap money.

Fed policymakers would therefore be unwise to second-guess Mr Trump's attitude towards fiscal policy, or towards the central bank itself, let alone the appointments he may make to fill forthcoming vacancies on the FOMC. The Fed has been fortunate since the early 1990s in having presidents who, by and large, respected its independence and refrained from sharp public criticism or from trying to pack it with ideological placepeople. That may cease to be the case. There is little the Fed can or should do about it now.

Now the Fed has pulled the trigger on rate, it needs to avoid giving the impression that it is only a matter of time before it expends more ammunition. It should not hesitate to change its forecast of three hikes next year.

Politically and economically, the US will enter a period of intense uncertainty next year. It needs a central bank prepared to react to events, not push ahead with a predetermined policy that may turn out to be inappropriate.
   COfed : Federal Reserve Board   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Monetary Policy | nedi : Editorials | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPCEN02 | EN | EN0208   IPDEconomic Indicators | Economic News | Interest Rates   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTFT000020161216eccg0001d  

 After Rate Hike, Low-Volatility Funds Fall Short
WSJ Blogs, 18:12, 15 December 2016, 504 words, (English)
Funds designed to provide investors with a smoother ride than the rest of the market didn't quite work after the Fed raised interest rates this week.
Document WCWSJB0020161215eccf001jl



 HDNews Highlights: Top Global Markets News of the Day   WC443 words   PD15 December 2016   ET03:15   SNDow Jones Institutional News   SCDJDN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright © 2016, Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 
   LP
Most Asia Stocks Fall Following Fed Rate Rise 
 

Asian stocks outside of Japan fell after the U.S. Federal Reserve raised interest rates for the first time in a year and pointed to a faster pace of increases than was previously expected. 
   TD
 
U.S. Dollar Surges Broadly on Hawkish Fed 
 

The U.S. dollar is sharply higher in early Asia trading, with the yen hardest hit after the U.S. Federal Reserve announced its first interest rate increase in 2016 overnight and signaled it expects to increase rates more quickly than previously anticipated in 2017. 


 
Fed More Pessimistic on Economic Growth Than Private Forecasters 
 

Private forecasters are expecting faster growth, higher inflation and higher interest rates following President-elect Donald Trump's election, but Fed officials' newest forecasts for growth and inflation are almost completely unchanged since September. 


 
Fed Lifts Rates, Signals More Increases Next Year 
 

The Federal Reserve said it would raise its benchmark short-term interest rate for the first time in a year and signaled that rates would rise at a faster pace than previously projected. 


 
Flat Auto Sales Cloud U.S. Growth Outlook 
 

The auto industry has been a bright spot during much of the recent U.S. economic expansion, but the country's car buyers are showing signs of fatigue, raising concerns over the broader outlook for consumer spending-a key engine of U.S. growth. 


 
Bank of Korea Keeps Base Rate Unchanged at 1.25% 
 

The Bank of Korea kept its base rate unchanged for a sixth straight month as expected, sticking to its cautious wait-and-see stance as it assesses the impact of the latest U.S. rate increase. 


 
BOJ's Measure of Corporate Inflation Expectations Posts Its First Increase 
 

A gauge of Japan's corporate inflation expectations rose for the first time during the fourth quarter, underscoring the broad ripples from Donald Trump's presidential-election victory. 


 
Australia's Unemployment Rate Rises in November 
 

Australia's unemployment rate rose to a higher-than-expected 5.7% in November from 5.6% in October. Economists had expected a seasonally adjusted unemployment rate of 5.6% in November. 


 
Ultralong Bonds Are Short-Term Losers 
 

Many investors in long-dated bonds have gone, on paper, from raking in stellar returns to nursing hefty losses. 


 
Eurozone Suspends Greek Debt Relief 
 

Greece's European creditors suspended proposed debt-relief measures after the Greek government surprised them by announcing it would boost welfare benefits for low-income pensioners, a sign of escalating tensions over the country's bailout.

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

December 14, 2016 21:15 ET (02:15 GMT)
   COfed : Federal Reserve Board   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | nfiac : Fixed Income Asset Class News | nhhour : Headlines of the Hour | e12 : Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | ndj : Dow Jones Top Stories | nfact : Factiva Filters | ntop : Top Wire News | redit : Selection of Top Stories/Trends/Analysis   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument DJDN000020161215eccf0008c  



 HDNews Highlights: Top Global Markets News of the Day   WC443 words   PD15 December 2016   ET03:00   SNDow Jones Institutional News   SCDJDN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright © 2016, Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 
   LP
 
Most Asia Stocks Fall Following Fed Rate Rise 
 

Asian stocks outside of Japan fell after the U.S. Federal Reserve raised interest rates for the first time in a year and pointed to a faster pace of increases than was previously expected. 
   TD
 
U.S. Dollar Surges Broadly on Hawkish Fed 
 

The U.S. dollar is sharply higher in early Asia trading, with the yen hardest hit after the U.S. Federal Reserve announced its first interest rate increase in 2016 overnight and signaled it expects to increase rates more quickly than previously anticipated in 2017. 


 
Fed More Pessimistic on Economic Growth Than Private Forecasters 
 

Private forecasters are expecting faster growth, higher inflation and higher interest rates following President-elect Donald Trump's election, but Fed officials' newest forecasts for growth and inflation are almost completely unchanged since September. 


 
Fed Lifts Rates, Signals More Increases Next Year 
 

The Federal Reserve said it would raise its benchmark short-term interest rate for the first time in a year and signaled that rates would rise at a faster pace than previously projected. 


 
Flat Auto Sales Cloud U.S. Growth Outlook 
 

The auto industry has been a bright spot during much of the recent U.S. economic expansion, but the country's car buyers are showing signs of fatigue, raising concerns over the broader outlook for consumer spending-a key engine of U.S. growth. 


 
Bank of Korea Keeps Base Rate Unchanged at 1.25% 
 

The Bank of Korea kept its base rate unchanged for a sixth straight month as expected, sticking to its cautious wait-and-see stance as it assesses the impact of the latest U.S. rate increase. 


 
BOJ's Measure of Corporate Inflation Expectations Posts Its First Increase 
 

A gauge of Japan's corporate inflation expectations rose for the first time during the fourth quarter, underscoring the broad ripples from Donald Trump's presidential-election victory. 


 
Australia's Unemployment Rate Rises in November 
 

Australia's unemployment rate rose to a higher-than-expected 5.7% in November from 5.6% in October. Economists had expected a seasonally adjusted unemployment rate of 5.6% in November. 


 
Ultralong Bonds Are Short-Term Losers 
 

Many investors in long-dated bonds have gone, on paper, from raking in stellar returns to nursing hefty losses. 


 
Eurozone Suspends Greek Debt Relief 
 

Greece's European creditors suspended proposed debt-relief measures after the Greek government surprised them by announcing it would boost welfare benefits for low-income pensioners, a sign of escalating tensions over the country's bailout.

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

December 14, 2016 21:00 ET (02:00 GMT)
   COfed : Federal Reserve Board   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | nfiac : Fixed Income Asset Class News | nhhour : Headlines of the Hour | e12 : Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | ndj : Dow Jones Top Stories | nfact : Factiva Filters | ntop : Top Wire News | redit : Selection of Top Stories/Trends/Analysis   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument DJDN000020161215eccf0008f  



 HDNews Highlights: Top Global Markets News of the Day   WC443 words   PD15 December 2016   ET05:15   SNDow Jones Institutional News   SCDJDN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright © 2016, Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 
   LP
Asia Stocks Fall Following Fed Rate Increase 
 

Asian markets were down across the board after the U.S. Federal Reserve raised interest rates for the first time in a year and pointed to a faster pace of increases than was previously expected. 
   TD
 
U.S. Dollar Surges Broadly on Hawkish Fed 
 

The U.S. dollar is sharply higher in early Asia trading, with the yen hardest hit after the U.S. Federal Reserve announced its first interest rate increase in 2016 overnight and signaled it expects to increase rates more quickly than previously anticipated in 2017. 


 
Fed More Pessimistic on Economic Growth Than Private Forecasters 
 

Private forecasters are expecting faster growth, higher inflation and higher interest rates following President-elect Donald Trump's election, but Fed officials' newest forecasts for growth and inflation are almost completely unchanged since September. 


 
Fed Lifts Rates, Signals More Increases Next Year 
 

The Federal Reserve said it would raise its benchmark short-term interest rate for the first time in a year and signaled that rates would rise at a faster pace than previously projected. 


 
Flat Auto Sales Cloud U.S. Growth Outlook 
 

The auto industry has been a bright spot during much of the recent U.S. economic expansion, but the country's car buyers are showing signs of fatigue, raising concerns over the broader outlook for consumer spending-a key engine of U.S. growth. 


 
Bank of Korea Keeps Base Rate Unchanged at 1.25% 
 

The Bank of Korea kept its base rate unchanged for a sixth straight month as expected, sticking to its cautious wait-and-see stance as it assesses the impact of the latest U.S. rate increase. 


 
BOJ's Measure of Corporate Inflation Expectations Posts Its First Increase 
 

A gauge of Japan's corporate inflation expectations rose for the first time during the fourth quarter, underscoring the broad ripples from Donald Trump's presidential-election victory. 


 
Australia's Unemployment Rate Rises in November 
 

Australia's unemployment rate rose to a higher-than-expected 5.7% in November from 5.6% in October. Economists had expected a seasonally adjusted unemployment rate of 5.6% in November. 


 
Ultralong Bonds Are Short-Term Losers 
 

Many investors in long-dated bonds have gone, on paper, from raking in stellar returns to nursing hefty losses. 


 
Eurozone Suspends Greek Debt Relief 
 

Greece's European creditors suspended proposed debt-relief measures after the Greek government surprised them by announcing it would boost welfare benefits for low-income pensioners, a sign of escalating tensions over the country's bailout.

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

December 14, 2016 23:15 ET (04:15 GMT)
   COfed : Federal Reserve Board   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | nfiac : Fixed Income Asset Class News | nhhour : Headlines of the Hour | e12 : Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | ndj : Dow Jones Top Stories | nfact : Factiva Filters | ntop : Top Wire News | redit : Selection of Top Stories/Trends/Analysis   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument DJDN000020161215eccf000cm  



 HDNews Highlights: Top Global Markets News of the Day   WC443 words   PD15 December 2016   ET05:00   SNDow Jones Institutional News   SCDJDN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright © 2016, Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 
   LP
 
Asia Stocks Fall Following Fed Rate Increase 
 

Asian markets were down across the board after the U.S. Federal Reserve raised interest rates for the first time in a year and pointed to a faster pace of increases than was previously expected. 
   TD
 
U.S. Dollar Surges Broadly on Hawkish Fed 
 

The U.S. dollar is sharply higher in early Asia trading, with the yen hardest hit after the U.S. Federal Reserve announced its first interest rate increase in 2016 overnight and signaled it expects to increase rates more quickly than previously anticipated in 2017. 


 
Fed More Pessimistic on Economic Growth Than Private Forecasters 
 

Private forecasters are expecting faster growth, higher inflation and higher interest rates following President-elect Donald Trump's election, but Fed officials' newest forecasts for growth and inflation are almost completely unchanged since September. 


 
Fed Lifts Rates, Signals More Increases Next Year 
 

The Federal Reserve said it would raise its benchmark short-term interest rate for the first time in a year and signaled that rates would rise at a faster pace than previously projected. 


 
Flat Auto Sales Cloud U.S. Growth Outlook 
 

The auto industry has been a bright spot during much of the recent U.S. economic expansion, but the country's car buyers are showing signs of fatigue, raising concerns over the broader outlook for consumer spending-a key engine of U.S. growth. 


 
Bank of Korea Keeps Base Rate Unchanged at 1.25% 
 

The Bank of Korea kept its base rate unchanged for a sixth straight month as expected, sticking to its cautious wait-and-see stance as it assesses the impact of the latest U.S. rate increase. 


 
BOJ's Measure of Corporate Inflation Expectations Posts Its First Increase 
 

A gauge of Japan's corporate inflation expectations rose for the first time during the fourth quarter, underscoring the broad ripples from Donald Trump's presidential-election victory. 


 
Australia's Unemployment Rate Rises in November 
 

Australia's unemployment rate rose to a higher-than-expected 5.7% in November from 5.6% in October. Economists had expected a seasonally adjusted unemployment rate of 5.6% in November. 


 
Ultralong Bonds Are Short-Term Losers 
 

Many investors in long-dated bonds have gone, on paper, from raking in stellar returns to nursing hefty losses. 


 
Eurozone Suspends Greek Debt Relief 
 

Greece's European creditors suspended proposed debt-relief measures after the Greek government surprised them by announcing it would boost welfare benefits for low-income pensioners, a sign of escalating tensions over the country's bailout.

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

December 14, 2016 23:00 ET (04:00 GMT)
   COfed : Federal Reserve Board   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | nfiac : Fixed Income Asset Class News | nhhour : Headlines of the Hour | e12 : Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | ndj : Dow Jones Top Stories | nfact : Factiva Filters | ntop : Top Wire News | redit : Selection of Top Stories/Trends/Analysis   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument DJDN000020161215eccf000f6  



 SEMarkets   HDU.S. Dollar Surges Broadly in Asia on Hawkish Fed; U.S. dollar jumps to its highest levels since February against the yen   BYBy James Glynn    WC557 words   PD15 December 2016   ET05:35   SNThe Wall Street Journal Online   SCWSJO   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
   LPSYDNEY—The U.S. dollar is sharply higher in early Asia trading, with the yen hardest hit after the U.S. Federal Reserve announced its first \b interest-rate\b0  increase of 2016 and signaled it expects to increase rates more quickly than previously anticipated in 2017.

Fed officials said they would increase the federal-funds rate by a quarter percentage point to between 0.50% and 0.75%, a move consistent with a brightening economic outlook.
   TDThe Fed now expects the median fed-funds rate to be 1.4% by the end of 2017, reaching 2.1% at the end of 2018 and 2.9% in 2019. That implies three quarter-percentage-point interest-rate increases over each of the next three years, a faster pace than officials projected in September, when they only saw two rate increases next year.

Currency traders said the full extent of the reaction to the Fed rate increase won't be known until European markets have had time to absorb the news.

The reaction in currency markets in early Asia has seen the U.S. dollar jump to its highest levels since February against the yen, with broad gains also posted against the euro and dollar bloc currencies.

The U.S. dollar climbed above 117.0 yen after trading closer to 115.0 yen ahead of the Fed announcement. WSJ Dollar Index is up 0.8% to 91.12, which would mark its highest closing value in more than 14 years. The Australian, Canadian and New Zealand dollars were sharply lower against the greenback.

Richard Grace, the global head of currency strategy at the Commonwealth Bank of Australia, said the Fed is navigating its way through some tricky waters. Fed Chairwoman Janet Yellen has acknowledged the potential for stronger GDP growth if big infrastructure spending by the Trump White House occurs, while also acknowledging monetary conditions have tightened in the past month through a higher U.S. dollar and big increases in U.S. bond yields, he said.

There was a fairly uniform rise in U.S. bond yields overnight, with the 10-year yield climbing to 2.54% from around 2.44% on the Fed announcement.

Ray Attrill, the global head of currency strategy at National Australia Bank said "this is what happens when two (interest rate increases) becomes three."

All currencies have been "smashed" against the U.S., with the yen leading the pack

"Some of the (Fed) members are taking on board the prospect of more growth-supportive and inflationary fiscal policy next year," Mr. Attrill said.

Still, Ms. Yellen has indicated that it is too early to make assumptions about what might happen to the world's largest economy if the budgetary purse strings in Washington are loosened next year, Mr. Attrill added.

Traders said they were also on edge about the potential for increased friction between the Fed and Mr. Trump.

Ms. Yellen had several opportunities to offer critiques of some of the ideas that have been floated for economic policy but refrained from taking the bait. Still, she emphasized the importance of the Federal Reserve's independence several times.

Write to James Glynn at james.glynn@wsj.com
   COfed : Federal Reserve Board   NSm132 : Foreign Exchange News | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | e1102 : Money Supply | e1202 : Interest Rates | e52 : Euro Zone/Currency | gpersf : Personal Finance | gpersi : Personal Investments | gvbod : Government Bodies | m131 : Money Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mcuop : Currency Options | mforx : Forex Derivatives | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | m15 : Derivative Securities | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia | namz : North America | apacz : Asia Pacific   IPCCBA.AU | CBAUY | G/FED | M/USD | N/FRX | N/MFO | N/MKT | R/ASA | R/NME | R/US   IPDASIA MARKETS | CURRENCIES | DOLLAR | FED | FOMC | INTEREST RATES | YELLEN | YEN | Attrill, Ray | Grace, Richard | Janet Yellen | SYND | WSJ-PRO-WSJ.com | Markets Main | WSJ.com   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument WSJO000020161214ecce00bni  



 SEMarkets   HDTreasury Yields Fall Ahead of Fed Decision; Investors see Fed raising interest rates for first time in a year   BYBy Sam Goldfarb    WC729 words   PD14 December 2016   ET16:27   SNThe Wall Street Journal Online   SCWSJO   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
   LPU.S. government bonds strengthened Wednesday as investors anticipated the first interest-rate increase by the Federal Reserve bonds strengthened Wednesday as investors anticipated the first interest-rate increase by the in a year  and reacted to soft economic data.

In recent trading, the yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note was 2.433%, compared with 2.479% Tuesday. Yields fall when bond prices rise.
   TDGovernment bonds got a boost overnight when the Bank of Japan announced it would step up purchases of long-term bonds, a reminder that major central banks outside of the U.S. are still pursuing aggressive stimulus even as the Fed is widely expected to tighten its monetary policy.

Bond purchases by the BOJ and European Central Bank have had spillover effects into this country, as overseas investors facing ultralow and even negative yielding debt in their domestic markets have turned to U.S. assets to bolster their returns, thereby depressing U.S. bond yields.

Treasury yields declined further Wednesday after the Commerce Department reported weaker-than-expected retail sales  for November. The impact of the release was partially offset by the largest year-over-year increase in U.S. business prices in two years but reinforced by a decline in U.S. industrial production .

The "weaker retail sales number definitely brought in some demand for bonds," said Stanley Sun, interest-rates strategist at Nomura Securities International in New York.

Heading into the Fed's interest-rate decision at 2 p.m., some traders may also be hedging their negative bets against Treasurys to protect against losses if the Fed signals a cautious approach to raising rates next year, Mr. Sun said.

In one indication of how popular it has become to short Treasurys, the net value of wagers betting on a rise in U.S. short-term interest rates via the eurodollar futures reached a record $2.239 trillion for the week ended Dec. 6, according to Cheng Chen, U.S. rates strategist at TD Securities, citing data from the Commodity Futures Trading Commission going back to 1993.

Last December, the Fed raised interest rates for the first time since 2006 and put forward what at the time was viewed as a cautious projection of four quarter-percentage interest rate increases this year and four increases in 2017.

Its tightening plan was derailed by slow global growth and inflation as well as political events such as the U.K.'s vote in June to leave the European Union. Treasury yields plunged to record lows following the Brexit vote. But since then solid data from China, the U.S. and Europe has contributed to a brightening economic outlook, and Donald Trump's victory in the Nov. 8 election has produced a surge of optimism, causing investors to rush out of government debt and into riskier assets such as stocks.

Investors expect President-elect Trump and a Republican-controlled Congress to increase the budget deficit by cutting taxes and boosting spending on defense and infrastructure. That could diminish the value of outstanding government debt by adding to the supply of bonds. It could also spur growth and inflation, prompting the Fed to quicken its pace of interest-rate increases.

The 10-year Treasury yield has soared by more than 1 percentage point from its record low in early July. It was 1.867% on Election Day.

Fed-funds futures, a popular derivative market for investors to place bets on the Fed's rate policy outlook, showed a 95% probability of a rate increase Wednesday, according to data from CME Group.

Despite the building expectations for higher growth and inflation under a Trump administration, many analysts expect the Fed to offer a subdued assessment of the economy given the uncertainty that still surrounds government policy.

For much the same reason, some investors have viewed the recent increase in Treasury yields as a buying opportunity, wagering that yields could decline or at least stay steady if tax and spending changes fall short of expectations.

For all the momentum toward higher yields, the 10-year Treasury yield has struggled to surpass 2.5% in recent weeks, breaching that threshold only once in intraday trading.

Write to Sam Goldfarb at sam.goldfarb@wsj.com 
   COfed : Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | mntdbt : National Government Debt/Bond Markets | gvtre : Treasury Department | e12 : Monetary Policy | e212 : Government Borrowing | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mcpdbt : Corporate Debt/Bond Markets | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e21 : Government Finance | gvexe : Executive Branch | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPC8301.TO | CME | G/FDL | G/FED | G/IGV | N/BON | N/CMR | N/DJN | N/ECB | N/EMP | N/GEN | N/GENI | N/IEN | N/MKT | N/PLT | N/SDT | N/WER | R/NME | R/US   IPDBONDS | FED MEETING | FED RATES | INTEREST RATES | TREASURYS | U.S. BONDS | U.S. TREASURY | Trump, Donald | SYND | WSJ-PRO-WSJ.com | Credit Markets | WSJ.com   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument WSJO000020161214ecce006k5  



 SEMarkets   HDCredit-Card Rates Are Going Up and May Keep Rising; Borrowers can expect the quarter-point Fed rate increase to pass through to their card balances within the next two billing cycles   BYBy Peter Rudegeair and AnnaMaria Andriotis    WC757 words   PD16 December 2016   ET15:54   SNThe Wall Street Journal Online   SCWSJO   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
   LPCredit-card companies have been spending huge sums to woo consumers with perks and rewards. Now, cardholders are about to be reminded that lenders can dish out higher costs, too.

The annual percentage rates on millions of credit-card accounts are set to rise following the Federal Reserve's decision on Wednesday to increase its target short-term \b interest rate\b0 .
   TDBorrowers can expect the quarter-point rate increase to pass through to their card balances within the next two billing cycles, said Greg McBride, chief financial analyst at Bankrate.com, a firm that tracks credit-card rates.

Card debt could grow even more expensive for consumers next year if the Fed follows through on plans to keep moving rates higher. Lenders base the rate they charge on credit-card balances on the "prime" rate, which generally tracks the Fed's benchmark and rose a quarter of a percentage point to 3.75% this week.

The prime rate is set individually by banks as their lowest lending rate, although the rate generally referred to is a consensus of rates at large banks surveyed by The Wall Street Journal. A rough rule of thumb is that the prime rate is the fed-funds rate plus 3 percentage points.

For many cardholders, that was likely one of the first times their rates increased in over five years, along with an equal increase in the prime rate in December 2015. If the prime rate were to move up a total of 1 percentage point, the additional annual cost to consumers would be nearly $6 billion, according to a recent report by the U.S. Consumer Financial Protection Bureau.

Since the Fed raised rates last December, interest rates on new credit cards have increased by about half a percentage point, according to Bankrate. Rates then were at 15.8% and averaged 16.2% as of Wednesday. (The APRs borrowers are charged vary based on creditworthiness.)

The 2009 Credit CARD Act restricted lenders from abruptly repricing customers' accounts based on factors like late payments. That left changes in the prime rate as a more important variable for most card issuers, some of whom converted their fixed-rate cards to variable.

"It was a whole different economic equation," said Henry Coffey, an analyst at Wedbush Securities. Excluding introductory rates, almost no consumers currently have fixed-interest-rate cards, according to data provider WalletHub.com. In 2008 and before the recession, around a third of consumers owned a fixed-rate card.

Some 9.3 million consumers are at risk of falling behind on credit card or other loan payments as a result of the Fed's latest rate increase, according to TransUnion. That figure is based on an analysis of credit reports of borrowers who have accounts with variable interest rates and excludes those who don't carry credit-card balances.

The CARD Act doesn't require lenders to notify borrowers if their interest rate is rising because of an increase in the prime rate. It only requires advance notice if they are increasing the margin that gets tacked on to the prime rate.

The rate increase comes at a complex time for cardholders and the industry. Credit-card default rates remain very low, though they are up from a year prior, and income growth and low unemployment will likely help offset the pain from the increase in card rates.

Credit-card companies, which have been trying to win clients with richer rewards, are taking advantage of other ways to maximize revenue within the bounds of the CFPB's rules. Last month, American Express Co. raised the fee it charged customers who are late on more than one payment in a six-month period to a new upper limit the CFPB allowed.

The total dollar amount of credit-card debt that consumers in the U.S. are carrying is approaching $1 trillion—a level that was last breached in 2007. Should rate increases continue—the Fed said this week it anticipates three interest-rate rises next year—some analysts say delinquencies could pick up further.

"The end of 2018 might be the time that consumers reach a breaking point," said Odysseas Papadimitriou, chief executive at WalletHub.com.

Write to Peter Rudegeair at Peter.Rudegeair@wsj.com and AnnaMaria Andriotis at annamaria.andriotis@wsj.com
   COfed : Federal Reserve Board   INi8150108 : Credit Cards | i8150105 : Consumer Lending | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services | i81501 : Credit Types/Services | iplastic : Plastic Cards   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gvbod : Government Bodies | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCAXP | G/FED | I/BKS | I/CFN | I/IAV | M/FCL | N/CMR | N/DJN | N/EMP | N/GENI | N/IEN | N/WER   IPDCARD DEBT | CREDIT CARD COMPANIES | CREDIT CARD DEBT | CREDIT-CARD RATES | CREDIT CARDS | INTEREST RATES | LOAN PAYMENTS | LOANS | RATE INCREASE | Coffey, Henry | McBride, Greg | PRO | SYND | WSJ-PRO-FR | WSJ-PRO-WSJ.com | Markets Main | WSJ.com   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument WSJO000020161216eccg004s9  



 HDFed expected to raise rates for first time in a year   WC242 words   PD14 December 2016   ET11:59   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2016.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved. 
   LPWASHINGTON (AP) — The Federal Reserve is expected to raise its key interest rate for the first time in a year when its policy meeting ends Wednesday.

The move would lift the rate by a quarter point to a range between 0.5 percent and 0.75 percent, likely nudging up the cost of some consumer and business loans. The Fed last increased rates in December a year ago, when it hiked its benchmark rate from a record low set at the depths of the 2008 financial crisis.
   TDAttention Wednesday will revolve around what Fed official say about the pace of future rate increases against the backdrop of Donald Trump's election. How the Fed manages its policies might not be clear even after it issues a statement and Chair Janet Yellen holds a news conference.
   ARTFILE - In this Thursday, Nov. 17, 2016, file photo, Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen testifies on Capitol Hill in Washington, before the Joint Economic Committee. A full year after the Federal Reserve raised a key interest rate for the first time in nearly a decade, it is widely expected that they are finally ready to raise rates again at their final meeting of 2016. But the real anticipation revolves around how the central bank plans to respond to the political tsunami that voters have delivered with the election of Donald Trump. (AP Photo/Susan Walsh, File)    COfed : Federal Reserve Board   INibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | gpol : Domestic Politics | e12 : Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCf   IPDFederal | Reserve | BC-Federal Reserve,1st Ld | National | POLITICIAN | PERSON | Donald Trump | GOVERNMENT_FIGURE | Janet Yellen | Business | General news | Economic policy | Economy | Government business and finance | Government and politics | Government policy | Banking and credit | Financial services | Spot Development | F Level Ds (9----) | AP Business News (F Wire)   PUBThe Associated Press   ANDocument APRS000020161214ecce008c5  



 HDDollar Surges as U.S. Prepares for Higher Rates   BYBy James Glynn and Mike Bird    WC634 words   PD15 December 2016   ET13:22   SNDow Jones Institutional News   SCDJDN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright © 2016, Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 
   LPThe U.S. dollar surged to its highest level in 14 years Thursday, after the U.S. Federal Reserve announced its first interest-rate increase this year and signaled it expects rates to rise quicker than previously anticipated.

A faster-than-expected rise in U.S. interest rates will fuel the dollar's rally further into next year, with major consequences for U.S. exports and Asian companies, analysts say. The greenback has already surged by nearly 30% since the middle of 2014, according to the WSJ Dollar Index. That index rose to as high as 93.19--the highest since 2002--in European trading hours.
   TD"We see broad dollar strength extending to the middle of next year," said Société Générale foreign-exchange analyst Alvin Tan.

The current leg in the dollar's stellar rise came after Fed officials said on Wednesday they would increase the federal-funds target rate by a quarter percentage point, to between 0.50% and 0.75%.

The Fed now expects the median fed-funds rate to be 1.4% by the end of 2017, reaching 2.1% at the end of 2018 and 2.9% in 2019. That implies three quarter-percentage-point interest-rate increases over each of the next three years, a faster pace than officials projected in September, when they only saw two rate increases next year.

But while the Federal Reserve is tightening monetary policy, rates in Japan and most of Europe remain in negative territory. The European Central Bank and the Bank of Japan are still pursuing massive bond-buying programs.

Rising rates tend to boost domestic currencies as money flows into the local economy seeking the extra yield. Bond buying also tends to depress a currency, by flattening yields and sending investors looking for yield elsewhere.

In Asia, the U.S. dollar climbed to as high as Yen118.3 after trading closer to Yen115.0 before the Fed announcement.

The euro tumbled to its lowest level against the greenback since 2003, dropping more than 0.3% to $1.041.

Société Générale expects the dollar to fall to parity against the euro, "on the combination of an accelerating U.S. economy and rising European political risk," said Mr. Tan.

Ray Attrill, the global head of currency strategy at National Australia Bank, said "this is what happens when two [interest-rate increases] becomes three."

"Some of the [Fed] members are taking on board the prospect of more growth-supportive and inflationary fiscal policy next year," Mr. Attrill said.

The result of the Nov. 8 U.S. election introduced an element of uncertainty for the Fed, given President-elect Donald Trump's promises of more expansive fiscal policy.

Richard Grace, the global head of currency strategy at the Commonwealth Bank of Australia, said the Fed is navigating its way through some tricky waters. Fed Chairwoman Janet Yellen has acknowledged the potential for stronger GDP growth if big infrastructure spending by the Trump Administration occurs, while also acknowledging monetary conditions have tightened in the past month through a higher U.S. dollar and big increases in U.S. bond yields, he said.

The effects of the strong dollar are already rattling across the wider world. A stronger greenback makes U.S. exports less competitive abroad, and imports cheaper for American consumers. In emerging markets, the shift can strain corporate balance sheets and Treasury coffers as businesses and governments struggle to pay back dollar-denominated debts. Global commodities--priced in dollars--tend to fall in price as the greenback rises.

Write to James Glynn at james.glynn@wsj.com and Mike Bird at Mike.Bird@wsj.com

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

December 15, 2016 07:22 ET (12:22 GMT)
   COfed : Federal Reserve Board | eurcb : European Central Bank   NSm132 : Foreign Exchange News | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | gvbod : Government Bodies | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncmac : Commodities Asset Class News | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | nfxacb : Forex Asset Class Basic News | nfxacp : Forex Asset Class Premium News | e12 : Monetary Policy | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | eurz : Europe | namz : North America   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument DJDN000020161215eccf001l5  



 HDCredit-Card Rates Are Going Up and May Keep Rising   BYBy Peter Rudegeair and AnnaMaria Andriotis    WC695 words   PD16 December 2016   ET15:45   SNDow Jones Institutional News   SCDJDN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright © 2016, Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 
   LPCredit-card companies have been spending huge sums to woo consumers with perks and rewards. Now, cardholders are about to be reminded that lenders can dish out higher costs, too.

The annual percentage rates on millions of credit-card accounts are set to rise following the Federal Reserve's decision on Wednesday to increase its target short-term interest rate.
   TDBorrowers can expect the quarter-point rate increase to pass through to their card balances within the next two billing cycles, said Greg McBride, chief financial analyst at Bankrate.com, a firm that tracks credit-card rates.

Card debt could grow even more expensive for consumers next year if the Fed follows through on plans to keep moving rates higher. Lenders base the rate they charge on credit-card balances on the "prime" rate, which generally tracks the Fed's benchmark and rose a quarter of a percentage point to 3.75% this week.

For many cardholders, that was likely one of the first times their rates increased in over five years, along with an equal increase in the prime rate in December 2015. If the prime rate were to move up a total of 1 percentage point, the additional annual cost to consumers would be nearly $6 billion, according to a recent report by the U.S. Consumer Financial Protection Bureau.

Since the Fed raised rates last December, interest rates on new credit cards have increased by about half a percentage point, according to Bankrate. Rates then were at 15.8% and averaged 16.2% as of Wednesday. (The APRs borrowers are charged vary based on creditworthiness.)

The 2009 Credit CARD Act restricted lenders from abruptly repricing customers' accounts based on factors like late payments. That left changes in the prime rate as a more important variable for most card issuers, some of whom converted their fixed-rate cards to variable.

"It was a whole different economic equation," said Henry Coffey, an analyst at Wedbush Securities. Excluding introductory rates, almost no consumers currently have fixed-interest-rate cards, according to data provider WalletHub.com. In 2008 and before the recession, around a third of consumers owned a fixed-rate card.

Some 9.3 million consumers are at risk of falling behind on credit card or other loan payments as a result of the Fed's latest rate increase, according to TransUnion. That figure is based on an analysis of credit reports of borrowers who have accounts with variable interest rates and excludes those who don't carry credit-card balances.

The CARD Act doesn't require lenders to notify borrowers if their interest rate is rising because of an increase in the prime rate. It only requires advance notice if they are increasing the margin that gets tacked on to the prime rate.

The rate increase comes at a complex time for cardholders and the industry. Credit-card default rates remain very low, though they are up from a year prior, and income growth and low unemployment will likely help offset the pain from the increase in card rates.

Credit-card companies, which have been trying to win clients with richer rewards, are taking advantage of other ways to maximize revenue within the bounds of the CFPB's rules. Last month, American Express Co. raised the fee it charged customers who are late on more than one payment in a six-month period to a new upper limit the CFPB allowed.

The total dollar amount of credit-card debt that consumers in the U.S. are carrying is approaching $1 trillion -- a level that was last breached in 2007. Should rate increases continue -- the Fed said this week it anticipates three interest-rate rises next year -- some analysts say delinquencies could pick up further.

"The end of 2018 might be the time that consumers reach a breaking point, " said Odysseas Papadimitriou, chief executive at WalletHub.com.

Write to Peter Rudegeair at Peter.Rudegeair@wsj.com and AnnaMaria Andriotis at annamaria.andriotis@wsj.com

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

December 16, 2016 09:45 ET (14:45 GMT)
   COfed : Federal Reserve Board   INi8150108 : Credit Cards | i81501 : Credit Types/Services | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services | iplastic : Plastic Cards   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | gvbod : Government Bodies | m131 : Money Markets | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | ncmac : Commodities Asset Class News | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | nfiac : Fixed Income Asset Class News | nfxacb : Forex Asset Class Basic News | nfxacp : Forex Asset Class Premium News | e12 : Monetary Policy | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument DJDN000020161216eccg001yy  



 SEMARKETS & INVESTING   HDYellen sends wake-up call to bond investors; Analysis: Capital markets   BYBy Eric Platt and Joe Rennison in New York    WC879 words   PD16 December 2016   SNFinancial Times   SCFTFT   EDUSA Ed1   PG20   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2016 The Financial Times Ltd. All rights reserved. Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the web. 
   LPFed's upward revision to its projected path for interest rates knocks debt prices

"If they've managed to sleep through the night, bonds traders in the US will have quite a shock when they check their screens in the morning," Mohamed El-Erian, chief economic adviser at Allianz, tweeted early yesterday.
   TDWall Street bond traders and investors will have turned in on Wednesday night already jolted by the Federal Reserve, which under Janet Yellen's leadership has become synonymous with caution on interest rates, delivering a more aggressive path for borrowing costs in 2017 than most expected.

The entrenched complacency in the $13tn bond market about the US central bank's likely message was clear in the reaction that followed. Less than 24 hours after the Fed unveiled its projections for where its key short-term rate will be over the next three years and Ms Yellen gave her press conference, the yield on the policy sensitive two-year note surged from 1.16 per cent to 1.30 per cent - its highest level since 2009.

The pain administered by Ms Yellen is not the first dose the bond market has had to swallow of late.

Donald Trump's US election victory in early November helped vanquish a historic rally in sovereign bonds, as investors bought into the property mogul's promise to get the US economy humming. Yesterday's Fed surprise was that officials' upward revision to their projected path for interest rates appeared to reflect some sense that the combination of Mr Trump and a Republican-controlled Congress will be able to cut taxes and ease fiscal policy.

"The surprise and what the market is reacting to is that most people expected a wait-and-see stance from the [Fed] in terms of how they would consider the impact of Trumponomics in the year ahead," says Ian Lyngen, a strategist with BMO Capital Markets.

A widely anticipated increase in the federal funds rate to between 0.5 and 0.75 per cent - only the second from the central bank since the financial crisis - was overshadowed by the Fed rate setters forecasting three rises next year.

That was up from a September meeting when their dot plot - which charts where individual policymakers think the Fed funds rate will end the next three years - had pencilled in just two.

"We have opened the door" to a faster tightening cycle, says Scott Minerd, chief investment officer of Guggenheim Investments.

In contrast to most of the year, investors appear to be taking the Fed's intention to raise rates multiple times in 2017 more seriously. Interest rate futures are pricing in almost three quarter-point rate rises by the end of next year.

Given the uncertainty surrounding Mr Trump's plan to boost government spending and reduce both corporate and personal income tax, some investors had anticipated a far more cautious tone from the Fed and no change in the trajectory of future increases.

However, a return of momentum in the US economy that began before the poll emboldened policymakers, with Ms Yellen saying she expects progress to continue. The sell-off in the bond market was not just confined to sovereigns, with knock-on effects rippling out to investment-grade corporate bonds and emerging market debt.

The yield on the 10-year Treasury rose above 2.60 per cent yesterday, its highest since September 2014. The five-year note yield has surpassed 2 per cent for the first time since May 2011.

"We're on our way to a 2.75 per cent [yielding] 10-year," says Rick Rieder, BlackRock's chief investment officer of fixed income. "I don't subscribe to the thesis we're moving to much higher interest rates, but it will be pretty hard until we get other information from the Fed for interest rates to do anything other than drift higher."

US bonds had already been under pressure as investors prepare for faster economic growth and a more aggressive Fed. However, the more hawkish message from the Fed did not convince everyone. Doubters pointed to the modest rise in its growth forecasts for next year and the lack of change in its inflation forecasts for 2017-19. Officials on the Fed's Open Market Committee, for example, edge up their GDP forecast for 2017 to 2.1 per cent from 2 per cent.

Richard Clarida, a global strategic adviser at Pimco, is puzzled by the Fed's higher rate forecast profile for next year: "In sum, four members of the FOMC appeared willing to place at least a modest bet that Trumponomics will justify three hikes instead of two in 2017."

While bonds retreated, the dollar surged in the wake of the Fed move.

With the euro and yen under further pressure, the dollar index is at its highest level since 2003.

"The US dollar may have been ahead of the Fed in digesting what the US election result might mean for growth, but it will still likely strengthen further on the Fed's swifter than expected conversion to a possible fiscal reflation theme," says Daragh Maher, a currency strategist at HSBC.
   COfed : Federal Reserve Board   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | c172 : Corporate Debt Instruments | eitax : Income Tax | ginvbn : Personal Investments in Bonds | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | c17 : Corporate Funding | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e12 : Monetary Policy | e21 : Government Finance | e211 : Government Budget/Taxation | e2111 : Direct Taxation | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gfxiin : Fixed Income Investing | gpersf : Personal Finance | gpersi : Personal Investments | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPCEN   IPDEconomic News   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTFT000020161216eccg0002n  



 SEEconomy   HDTranscript: WSJ Interview With St. Louis Fed's James Bullard; Central banker discusses recent market moves and his outlook for the economy and interest rates   WC4,346 words   PD16 December 2016   ET22:27   SNThe Wall Street Journal Online   SCWSJO   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
   LPFederal Reserve Bank of St. Louis President James Bullard spoke by phone Friday, Dec. 16, 2016, with The Wall Street Journal's Michael S. Derby, two days after the U.S. central bank announced it would raise the federal-funds target rate by a quarter percentage point, to between 0.50% and 0.75%. He acknowledged revising his interest-rate outlook due to market developments, and said it may be time for the Fed to start shrinking its massive balance sheet next year. Here is a lightly edited transcript of the conversation.

MICHAEL S. DERBY: So yeah, so I just wanted to start off by asking you what you thought of the outcome of the FOMC [Fed's interest-rate-setting Federal Open Market Committee] meeting [on Dec. 13-14]. I know that you had – in your forecast you had priced in or you were expecting that the Fed had to do one rate increase, and it seemed that you were OK with that happening in December. So what's your assessment of how the Fed meeting shook out?
   TDJAMES BULLARD: Well, obviously there are a lot of changes in the works regarding fiscal policy. And, you know, that's centered around issues about deregulation; issues about corporate taxes, maybe other types of tax changes; infrastructure spending. It's those three that I think are probably the most immediate as far as the U.S. macroeconomy goes.

I think that the prospect of lower corporate taxes is probably driving the equity rally, because all by itself that would revalue the U.S. corporate sector, and it seems like there's probably a lot of political momentum behind that. So I think a lot of the discussion on equities is centered around the idea of, well, there might be faster growth in the future. But I would say that the prospect of a lower corporate tax is probably the bigger factor there.

I would say all – for all of these possible changes, the effects on 2017 GDP [gross domestic product] growth will be hard to achieve. I think it's just too soon. A government doesn't get formed for a while. You know, they would have to pass legislation. There would be effective dates on the legislation. So I think the – for our forecasting exercise in the SEP [summary of economic projections], we're talking about 2017 and then beyond, and I just didn't think we could probably expect too much different in 2017 from what we thought before the election. So we kept that the same.

For 2018 and 2019, it is possible that these kinds of things would have important effects on U.S. GDP growth. But we've – what we did is we didn't put that into the baseline; we just treated that as an upside risk to the forecast at this point, because you just don't have very many details. It's not clear how the politics shake out and exactly what the details will be. A lot depends on what the details are. So we just kept our forecast the same for GDP, 2 percent over the forecast horizon. That's exactly what it's been since the financial crisis, so we think that will just continue. But there will be some upside risk to that if some of these political plans actually come to fruition in a way that can drive U.S. productivity growth. So, for us, we kept that the same.

And then, on the – you know, the 10-year yields are up substantially since the election, other yields as well. But if you just focus on the 10-year, about half of that seems to be inflation expectations and the other half is the real rate.

On the inflation expectations part, we were already, you know, saying that inflation expectations were too low. So the fact that they've come back up – not all the way to mid-2014 levels, but they've come back up quite a ways – we just regard that as something we were looking for anyway, and so we didn't do anything about that.

But the real rate going up on the order of 25, 30 basis points, we did take that onboard and we think that that is important. And that would mean that our neutral rate went up by about that much, so we increased our policy rate by one notch, up to – up to, you know, like one more rate increase, and just kept that through the forecast, right?

So – (inaudible) – our outlook for the U.S. economy – (inaudible) – the same. We've probably got more upside risk than we had before, and we did make the one adjustment to the policy rate. And we suggested that that policy rate move could be made in 2017.

MR. DERBY: Now, I'm curious about –

MR. BULLARD: And then –

MR. DERBY: Yeah, OK. Go ahead.

MR. BULLARD: Yeah, so I just wanted to give you an outline on what we were – you know, of what we were thinking.

MR. DERBY: Yeah. So I'm interested in the idea that, like, if you – if you factored in an additional rate rise in your forecast because of the move in the 10-year note yield, I mean, obviously you have to at any point look at – look and make an assessment of why the 10-year yield is moving, and it seems that you did in that you're talking about how the real rate was definitely a part of the movement there. But does that mean that going forward your interest-rate forecast is going to be very closely tied to changes in what's happening with, say, you know, the 10-year Treasury note?

MR. BULLARD: Well, I'm using the 10-year as a kind of a benchmark. Of course, yields go up – (inaudible) – the curve.

MR. DERBY: OK.

MR. BULLARD: So I wouldn't just concentrate on one part of the curve. But I did take note of the idea that maybe this very large liquidity premium on government paper is melting a little bit, and of course we've got that as a key part of our regime.

The regime thing that we're talking about really has two key components. One is very slow productivity growth in the U.S. over the last five years. And the other is that there's a very large liquidity premium on government paper around the world, and that's a global phenomenon. But to the extent that all of a sudden investors would not be so interested in holding government paper and decide that they want to do other things with their investments, then that would be important for the way we're looking at policy. And so we're kind of hedging our bets a little bit here because the real rates did move up in a discrete way after the election.

MR. DERBY: Now, do you have any time frame in which you could see that rate rise happening? Would you – I mean, I know you're ending your FOMC voter rotation, but like as you go into next year, do you think you'll be advocating or, you know, arguing to your fellow policy makers that adjusting the [benchmark] fed-funds rate up again sometime early in the year would be the right move? Or are you more agnostic on the – on the timing issue?

MR. BULLARD: Yeah, I'd be agnostic about that, I guess, at this point. You know, we could probably wait and see just as – you know, we just got done with one rate hike, so. But as we get into next year, we'll look at the data and see – and see what we think. Obviously, we've only got the one rate hike, so it wouldn't matter too much exactly when you executed that.

I would say one other thing, though, that I'd be interested now in thinking about balance sheet policy and possibly allowing runoff in the balance sheet. That's something that I've advocated in the past, and it seems to me now might be a good time to – or 2017, possibly, would be a good time to play that card. And then we could start working the balance sheet down. And if we don't want to allow a runoff of the balance sheet, another thing you could do is reverse the Operation Twist that we did earlier and go at a shorter – you know, replace maturing securities with shorter-term securities. You could do that as well. But –

MR. DERBY: Would you do that – would you do that by way of the reinvestment process that's still ongoing?

MR. BULLARD: Yeah. The reinvestment process is ongoing right now. You could redirect that more toward shorter-term securities, or my preference would be just to allow some runoff in the – in the balance sheet. So this is something that the committee was thinking about doing before we started raising interest rates, and then it got put to the back burner. But it seems to me that you could at least think about that in 2017, and that's something I would – I would be interested in looking at.

MR. DERBY: Now, could you sort of sketch out how you – would this be in terms of, say, fading or tapering the reinvestment program, or stopping it? Would that be the first step along that path?

MR. BULLARD: Yeah, you could either – you could just stop reinvestments, or you could do it in a more managed way that would smooth it out a little bit more. And the path I've advocated, you know, thinking about a way to be smooth and allow the – you know, the reinvestment runoff to be managed in an appropriate way. And so we could – we could look at that. I don't think this is imminent, but it's something I'd be interested in. So I guess my point in mentioning this is that that does not show up in the interest-rate forecast, but that's something I would be interested in doing.

MR. DERBY: Do you think the markets are ready for that? I know that would be kind of a real – for a lot of folks out there, that would be a real shot across the bow, and some folks would interpret that as a – as a real push towards tighter monetary policy.

MR. BULLARD: Well, I think you put less downward pressure on longer-term yields, you probably get a steeper yield curve. But in the context of what I'm advocating, which is only one rate increase over the forecast horizon, I think it would probably give you the appropriate amount of policy tightening. If you combined it with a very aggressive rate policy, that would be a lot tighter than what the markets are currently expecting. But – so, I guess, you have to take this in the context of what I'm saying for the policy rate, which is not very many moves in the policy rate, but possibly look at reducing the size of the balance sheet.

MR. DERBY: Now, given the importance of real rates in your outlook, you know, if you were to stop reinvestment, it's possible that long-term bond yields could really – could really swing higher, and that could also then, in turn, affect your rate forecast. Is that an accurate way to look at things?

MR. BULLARD: That's possible. Although, again, I think, you know, we're operating in this global context here and, you know, the extent to which real rates can go higher in the U.S. but not elsewhere in the world is kind of limited. So, I mean, it would be interesting to see exactly what would happen and, like, you'd have to follow that very closely.

MR. DERBY: Do you envision that you will be arguing strongly in favor of doing something with the balance sheet next year?

MR. BULLARD: I think at this point it's an idea and, you know, it's not something that has been on the front burner for a while. What I'm suggesting is that, you know, maybe we should reconsider what we're thinking about the balance sheet or revisit what we're thinking about the balance sheet and how we want to play that going forward.

MR. DERBY: Right. I mean, I guess that is one area that's been kind of vague in Fed plans. I think Chairman [Janet] Yellen was asked about balance-sheet policy, and it's just always been this thing where, you know, we know some sort of adjustment's coming, but it's never been really exactly clear at what point the fed-funds rate has to get to.

MR. BULLARD: Well, sure. You know, the official committee position has been that we wanted to get some way along on the rate policy increase – sorry, policy rate increase, and then we would think about this. And of course, the increases in the policy rate have been slower than probably many people envisioned at this time last year. But, you know, the world has changed a little bit, and now the committee's thinking – not me, but the committee as a whole is thinking about more rate increases this year, and so at some point we would hit this – hit this trigger where we'd allow runoff on the balance sheet.

MR. DERBY: What are the downside risks you see for 2017? I mean, obviously, we've talked a lot about the upside risks that could come out of fiscal policy, but, you know, we've seen some kind of ominous rattlings again in China, and obviously that was a factor in what happened, you know, at the rough start of last year. Do you see any downside risks or things that worry you going into the new year?

MR. BULLARD: I'd be a little concerned that markets get carried away with how hawkish the committee might be. I don't think we're really that hawkish. I don't think we're very far from the neutral policy rate. And if the markets start to price in a really aggressive Fed, then, you know, at least the way I'm looking at it, that would be overdoing it and could cause problems in the global economy. So I'd be a little bit concerned about that. I think that happened last year. We made only the one move in December of 2015, but it got interpreted in the January and February time frame as a very aggressive Fed that was more or less on autopilot and was going to raise rates four times in 2016. Of course, none of that actually panned out in the end, but I think it drove a lot of asset-pricing dynamics in the January-February time frame of 2016. So I definitely don't want to replay something like that.

MR. DERBY: And do you see any risk of that happening right now with the – with the – I don't know how you would describe markets, but, I mean, it's obviously – there's a lot of buoyancy out there, a lot of optimism out there in pricing levels. Do you think that's a risk that they're overplaying it right now?

MR. BULLARD: I don't know. It's a different situation this year. There's just so much going on of – with the – President-elect [Donald] Trump and the possibility of, you know, major changes in fiscal policy in various dimensions. And I think right now everyone that's watching the U.S. macro economy is trying to get their heads around, you know, what kinds of things will actually be implemented and to what extent will the policy changes actually drive medium-term productivity growth, which I think is really what you need to get to the 3 to 4 percent growth rate on a sustained basis that the new administration would like to achieve.

MR. DERBY: Do you think it is possible to get to a sustained 3 to 4 percent growth path?

MR. BULLARD: Well, I think it is because we have had in the recent past productivity growth that was over 2 percent per year. In the last five years it's been about half of 1 percent per year, so it's not like it has never happened. It has happened in the – you know, in the period between 1995 and 2005. So it can be done.

I think a key question is whether these policy changes will really be oriented toward things that will drive U.S. productivity. That should be the number-one question we're asking when we're implementing policy changes: What is this going to do for productivity. Infrastructure spending is a classic example where, you know, historically, lots of different things get built, but I'm not sure there's been adequate attention to how much return on investment each one of those projects is really – has really given us over the medium term and the long term. Also, the infrastructure takes a long time to really pay off, and so how fast of an impact can you really have on productivity growth, or is that something that's more like, perhaps, 10 years down the line?

Same with deregulation. I think that possibly could move faster, but you want to think about, you know, which changes in regulation are really going to drive better productivity in the U.S. If you get rid of unnecessary regulations, that's surely very helpful. But which ones are unnecessary ones and which ones are the necessary ones, I think that's a key political decision that has to be made.

Yeah, so – and taxes. Taxes could have a big impact, and I think that the main impact there would be if you could encourage investment in the U.S., and that could be a big-ticket item that would improve productivity and could drive growth rates higher on a sustained basis. So the difference between me and some of the other people that comment on the economy is I don't have much faith in Keynesian-type things that talk about increasing demand over the short term. Those kinds of issues are about moving consumption from the future to today, temporarily. But then after you have the party today, then you have to pay for it in the future, and so that's just shifting consumption around from the future till now. And I don't think that that's really what we want to do this in this situation. What we want to do is get productivity to be higher so that growth is higher on a sustained basis.

MR. DERBY: Are you at all concerned that any of this stuff, any of these different potential actions by Congress and the Trump administration might be overly fueled by deficit spending? I mean, I know that long-term deficits and dealing with entitlement spending are – you know, have been something that's been on Fed officials' radar, but if this stuff is really fueled by huge budget deficits, is that – which is another thing that would push bond yields up, would that be a problem for you?

MR. BULLARD: Well, I think that that is a political uncertainty that has not been resolved because there are clearly a lot of deficit hawks in the Republican Party, and so how they're going to reconcile proposals to increase the U.S. debt-to-GDP ratio further than where it already is in order to – in order to fund, let's say, tax cuts or other types of fiscal policy is a great question. And I think that that is something that suggests that policy makers like me should be cautious about what's actually going to happen here going forward, because that political uncertainty has not been resolved in a clear way so far, and we won't know probably for six to nine months exactly how they're going to play that.

MR. DERBY: As an economic policy maker, is it difficult for you that so much of the future is now tied to unpredictable political movements rather than just, you know, dealing with a fairly static political environment and allowing the economy to perform within that?

MR. BULLARD: I don't know. There's always uncertainty in the world. I kind of try to resist the idea that uncertainty is always moving higher and that, you know, the world is always more uncertain. I mean, yeah, I think the election was a surprise, and that was not part of the baseline, probably, during the summer. But these things happen, and I think you have to take the uncertainty on board and try to do the best that you can.

I actually think overall that monetary policy is in a great position today. Unemployment is low, and near what the committee thinks is a long-run sustainable level outside of recession. And inflation is low, but not too far from target. So we're actually in great shape. And, you know, there are things that are – look like they're happening, but we have the luxury of waiting to see how this is going to transpire, and then designing an appropriate monetary policy response as things move forward.

MR. DERBY: And we didn't talk about how far left – the unemployment rate has left to run. Do you expect to see further declines in the unemployment rate?

MR. BULLARD: We don't think so. We think that monetary policy is very close to neutral right now, and that unemployment will fluctuate between 4½ percent and 5 percent. We've got it down at 4.7 percent over the forecast horizon, and I feel pretty comfortable with that.

I think if you look at 2006-2007, right before the financial crisis, the unemployment rate averaged about 4.6 percent right in that time frame. And that was actually – you know, relatively speaking, was boom times for the U.S. economy. The housing boom was going full blast, and unemployment didn't really decline any further that time period.

So I think something similar could be said for today, that monetary policy is basically neutral, the unemployment rate will probably just fluctuate in the high 4s, until something happens. And when something happens, if we go back into recession, then the unemployment rate will move out of that range and go much higher.

MR. DERBY: Well, with the closing minutes that we have left to us here, I'd like to ask you about some – how you think the new model that you adopted last June – how's that fared? Are you happy with how that – your new way of thinking about the economy and monetary policy? You know, with six months under that now, do you think that that's been a good framework to interpret what's going on and to make policy in?

MR. BULLARD: I think it has been very good over the last – since we've used it, since last June. We said unemployment would be 4.7 at the end of the year. Right now it's 4.6, so we're looking good. And the – we said inflation would be right about 2 percent, and that's looking pretty good as well. And we said that growth would be 2 percent. It probably won't get all the way to 2 percent this year, but it'll be close. So I think that part looks very good.

I think the main issue for us is whether the new approach to fiscal policy represents a regime change, which'll change our whole – you know, in our framework, if there is a regime change, then we've got to – we've got to shift our policy. And I think the answer to that is it's too early to tell, but it's possible that this new set of policies will really jolt the U.S. economy and you'll switch out into some new regime, which will characterized by higher real interest rates, possibly higher productivity. And if that's the – if that's the world we're headed to, then monetary policy will have to adjust.

But it's too early to make that prediction now. And so, for now, our baseline is that we're going to stick in the old regime. And we've got upside risk that we might switch to a new regime going forward, especially for 2017, I think, where it would be hard to have – hard for fiscal policy to have too much impact on 2017. I think for there, we're in – we're in great shape. It could be, once you get to 2018, that we'll have to admit that something fundamental has changed in the economy, and then we'll adjust policy – our policy recommendations accordingly.

MR. DERBY: I'm sorry, just to make – just to understand, so 2018 is probably the soonest that enough could have changed in the political landscape to do this re-evaluation of the general regime of the economy. Is that accurate?

MR. BULLARD: Yeah, or maybe in the second half of 2017. In that time frame, then Congress would have had time to act, and you'd be through the first hundred days of the administration. You could see the details of what they're proposing, which things actually got done and which things actually got delayed, those kind of things. And then we can reassess at that point.

Article

* Bullard Raises Rate View, Wants Fed to Consider Shrinking Balance Sheet
   COfrbstl : Federal Reserve Bank of St Louis | fed : Federal Reserve Board   NSe12 : Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gvbod : Government Bodies | nitv : Interviews | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1101 : Economic Growth | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter   REnamz : North America | usa : United States | usc : Midwest U.S. | usdc : Washington DC | usmo : Missouri | uss : Southern U.S.   IPCG/FED | N/CBK | N/CMR | N/DJN | N/ECO | N/EMP | N/GENI | N/IEN | R/DC | R/MO | R/NME | R/US | R/USC   IPDBULLARD | BULLARD INTERVIEW | BULLARD TRANSCRIPT | JAMES BULLARD INTERVIEW | JAMES BULLARD TRANSCRIPT | ST. LOUIS FED | BULLARD, JAMES | PRO | SYND | WSJ-PRO-CB | WSJ-PRO-WSJ.com | Central Banks | WSJ.com   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument WSJO000020161216eccg00a15  



 HDFOMC Delivers 25bp Hike; Seeks 'Further' Labor Mkt Improvement   WC815 words   PD14 December 2016   ET20:12   SNMarket News International   SCMARNEW   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2016. Market News International, Inc. 
   TD--Repeats, Risks to Outlook 'Roughly Balanced' 
--Median FFR Forecast Implies 3 Hikes Next Year, Up from 2 in Sept
--Economic Projections Show Small Tweaks

By Jean Yung

     WASHINGTON (MNI) - The Federal Reserve on Wednesday pulled the 
trigger on a widely anticipated interest rate hike though it gave little 
hint on how policymakers will respond to a potential shift toward 
expansionary fiscal policy, which could ease its burden of supporting 
U.S. economic growth. 
    
     The policymaking Federal Open Market Committee voted unanimously to 
raise the fed funds rate to a range between 0.50% to 0.75%, only the 
second move to normalize interest rates in nearly a decade. Since the 
financial crisis, Fed officials have emphasized they intend to raise 
rates gradually and only when data shows the economy continuing to 
advance toward full employment and price stability. 

     Citing strong job growth and a steady economic expansion as 
evidence the economy was ready to tolerate higher interest rates, the 
Fed upgraded its assessment of growth to "a moderate pace" from 
"modest" in November and highlighted the fact the jobless rate has 
"declined." 

     Inflation has "increased," the Fed said, without qualifying the 
statement, though it noted market-based measures of inflation 
compensation "still are low" despite having moved up "considerably."  

     "In view of realized and expected labor market conditions and 
inflation, the Committee decided to raise the target range for the 
federal funds rate to 1/2 to 3/4 percent," the FOMC said. "The stance of 
monetary policy remains accommodative, thereby supporting some further 
strengthening in labor market conditions and a return to 2 percent 
inflation." 

     Wednesday's decision was widely expected, with investors pricing 
the quarter-point hike at a near certainty since November, as measured 
by the CME Group's 30-day fed fund futures prices. 

     Markets have instead been focused on how the Fed will grapple with 
President-elect Donald Trump's pledge to unleash fiscal spending. 
Fed officials have acknowledged in public comments since the election 
that a more expansive fiscal policy would call for a steeper path of 
normalization than they currently anticipate. However, they have also 
emphasized, there is enormous uncertainty about the economic policies 
that might be put into effect, and the Fed would adjust its outlook when 
there is more clarity. The statement made no mention of fiscal policy. 

     The committee raised its projection for the median fed funds rate 
for next year to 1.4% from 1.1% in September, implying three hikes next 
year, and 2.1% the year after, or another three hikes in 2018. 

     Six participants forecast three rate hikes would be appropriate 
next year, compared to just one in September. At the same time, the 
upper range of the so-called central tendency of the rates projection 
fell to 1.6% in 2017 from 1.8% in September, and to 2.6% in 2018 from 
2.8% in September. The narrowing of the range means at least one member 
lowered his or her forecast for the fed funds rate, squeezing the 
median. 

     The longer run median for the fed funds rate rose just a tad to 
3.0% from 2.9% in September. 

     The so-called dot plot is a collection of the views of the 17 FOMC 
members, including non-voters, and not a committment of what the 
committee will do. Only 16 members submitted longer-run forecasts, with 
St. Louis Federal Reserve Bank President James Bullard likely the one 
missing as he declined to contribute longer-run forecasts in June and 
September. 

     FOMC participants lowered slightly their unemployment forecasts, 
projecting 4.7% this year, 4.5% for 2017 through 2019 and 4.8% in the 
longer run. That compares to September's estimates of 4.8% this year and 
4.6% next year. The jobless rate hit a post-crisis low of 4.6% in 
November. 

     The committee also raised its projection of real GDP growth a tenth 
higher next year to 2.1% and in 2019, to 1.9%. Members expected growth 
in 2018 to remain at 2.0% and at 1.8% in the longer run. 

     The projected rise in the price index for personal consumption 
expenditures was mostly unchanged. They expect the PCE to accelerate to 
1.5% this year, compared with September's estimate of 1.3%, and core PCE 
to rise 1.7%, unchanged from the last estimate. 

     The core PCE is projected to rise 1.8% in 2017 and 2.0% in 2018 and 
2019. 

     Markets expect to hear more about the move and the outlook when Fed 
Chair Janet Yellen address the media at 2:30 p.m. ET, where she is 
likely to indicate that the path next year remains uncertain and data 
dependent. 

--MNI Washington Bureau; tel: +1 202-371-2121; email: 
jean.yung@marketnews.com 

[TOPICS: MMUFE$,M$U$$$]
   COfed : Federal Reserve Board   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | e1101 : Economic Growth | e1116 : Employment/Unemployment | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBHawking LLC   ANDocument MARNEW0020161215ecce00001  



 HDFed Officials See More Rate Rises Coming In 2017   WC531 words   PD14 December 2016   ET20:15   SNDow Jones Institutional News   SCDJDN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright © 2016, Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 
   LP
   By Michael S. Derby 
 

WASHINGTON--Federal Reserve officials now expect to raise short-term interest rate more often next year, amid a little changed economic outlook.
   TDOfficials penciled in around three rate rises for 2017 that would leave their overnight target rate at a median level of 1.4% for that year, up from 1.1% in forecasts released in September. They see an additional three increases each in 2018 and 2019, with the median rate target at 2.9% for the latter year. The forecasts show less consensus among policymakers about rate actions after next year.

Despite the change in monetary views, officials views on growth, hiring and inflation aren't much different relative to September. On the inflation front, policymakers still expect to get back to their 2% price target in 2018.

The Fed's updated forecasts were released as part of their Federal Open Market Committee gathering, held over Tuesday and Wednesday. At that gathering officials met broad expectations that they'd raise their short-term interest rate target, moving from the 0.25% to 0.50% range in place since last December to 0.50% to 0.75%.

The forecasts and interest rate projections released by the Fed are surrounded by greater uncertainty than usual. The unexpected election of Donald Trump and the extension of Republican control over congress portend significant policy changes in the years ahead.

While no one knows what will happen, many observers reckon elected leaders are likely to embark on deficit-fueled spending programs and put in place other changes that could drive economic growth up for a time. That could drive the Fed to raise rates more than it now expects.

Over recent weeks Fed officials have noted they'll change their respective outlooks when new policies are put in place. They've said they are unlikely to change their forecasts based on expectations of what congress and the president might put in place.

On December 6, New York Fed President William Dudley, who also serves as vice chairman of the FOMC, said "it is premature to reach firm conclusions about what will likely occur" under the new administration. "As we get greater clarity over the coming year, I will update my assessment of the economic outlook and, with that, my views about the appropriate stance of monetary policy," he said then.

In the forecasts, Fed officials now expect the U.S. gross domestic product to come in at 1.9% for this year, versus the 1.8% median estimate from September. For 2017 officials project GDP at a 2.1% rise, from the prior estimate of 2%. Policymakers still see the economy's long-run growth rate at 1.8%.

For 2017, Fed officials median view for what's now a 4.6% jobless rate moved to 4.7%, versus September's estimate of 4.8%. In 2018 unemployment is see at 4.5%. Inflation is seen hitting 1.9% next year, matching September's estimate. 


 
   Write to Michael S. Derby at michael.derby@wsj.com 
 

(MORE TO FOLLOW) Dow Jones Newswires

December 14, 2016 14:15 ET (19:15 GMT)
   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | gvbod : Government Bodies | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | ncmac : Commodities Asset Class News | nenac : Energy Asset Class News | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | nfiac : Fixed Income Asset Class News | nfxacb : Forex Asset Class Basic News | nfxacp : Forex Asset Class Premium News | nhotbn : Hot Business News | ntop : Top Wire News | nttwn : Today's Top Wire News | e12 : Monetary Policy | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | ndj : Dow Jones Top Stories | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | redit : Selection of Top Stories/Trends/Analysis   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument DJDN000020161214ecce0031j  



 HDTreasury Yields Rise After Fed Decision   BYBy Sam Goldfarb    WC688 words   PD14 December 2016   ET20:33   SNDow Jones Institutional News   SCDJDN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright © 2016, Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 
   LPU.S. government bonds pulled back Wednesday afternoon after the Federal Reserve decided to raise interest rates and pointed to a slightly faster pace of interest-rate increases next year.

The Fed, as widely expected by investors, said it would lift the benchmark federal-fund rate by a quarter-percentage point. Fed officials also signaled that they expect to raise short-term rates three times next year as the U.S. economy shows signs of improvement, up from their previous estimate of two increases,
   TDIn recent trading, the yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note was 2.510%, according to Tradeweb, compared with 2.446% right before the Fed's rate statement.

The yield on the two-year note, which is highly sensitive to expected changes in Fed policy, was 1.227%, compared with 1.166% before the Fed's release.

Yields rise when bond prices fall.

The Fed's policy statement "is remarkably well-balanced," said Anthony Karydakis, chief economic strategist at Miller Tabak. "It's simply the fact that they're thinking of three moves next year versus two that originally threw the Treasury market off track."

Bond prices had climbed earlier Wednesday as investors prepared for a cautious Fed and reacted to soft economic data, including weaker-than-expected retail sales for November. The impact of the retail sales report was partially offset by the largest year-over-year increase in U.S. business prices in two years but was reinforced by a decline in U.S. industrial production.

Government bonds also got a boost overnight when the Bank of Japan announced it would step up purchases of long-term bonds, a reminder that major central banks outside of the U.S. are still pursuing aggressive stimulus even as the Fed tightens its monetary policy.

Investors including hedge funds in recent weeks have piled into bets wagering on higher U.S. interest rates. The net value of wagers betting on a rise in U.S. short-term interest rates via eurodollar futures contracts reached a record $2.239 trillion for the week ended Dec. 6, according to Cheng Chen, U.S. rates strategist at TD Securities, citing data from the Commodity Futures Trading Commission going back to 1993.

Last December, the Fed raised interest rates for the first time since 2006 and put forward what at the time was viewed as a cautious projection of four quarter-percentage interest rate increases this year and four increases in 2017.

Its tightening plan was derailed by slow global growth and inflation as well as political events such as the U.K.'s vote in June to leave the European Union. Treasury yields plunged to record lows following the Brexit vote. But since then solid data from China, the U.S. and Europe has contributed to a brightening economic outlook, and Donald Trump 's victory in the Nov. 8 election has produced a surge of optimism, causing investors to rush out of government debt and into riskier assets such as stocks.

Investors expect President-elect Trump and a Republican-controlled Congress to increase the budget deficit by cutting taxes and boosting spending on defense and infrastructure. That could diminish the value of outstanding government debt by adding to the supply of bonds. It could also spur growth and inflation, prompting the Fed to quicken its pace of interest-rate increases.

The 10-year Treasury yield has soared by more than 1 percentage point from its record low in early July. It was 1.867% on Election Day.

Many analysts had expected the Fed to offer a measured assessment of the economy given the uncertainty that still surrounds government policy and the central bank's reluctance to make political predictions.

For similar reasons, some investors have viewed the recent increase in Treasury yields as a buying opportunity, wagering that yields could decline or at least stay steady if tax and spending changes fall short of expectations.

Write to Sam Goldfarb at sam.goldfarb@wsj.com

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

December 14, 2016 14:33 ET (19:33 GMT)
   COfed : Federal Reserve Board   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | mntdbt : National Government Debt/Bond Markets | gvtre : Treasury Department | e212 : Government Borrowing | ecat : Economic News | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | ncmac : Commodities Asset Class News | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | nfiac : Fixed Income Asset Class News | nfxacb : Forex Asset Class Basic News | nfxacp : Forex Asset Class Premium News | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Monetary Policy | e21 : Government Finance | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | gvexe : Executive Branch | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | eurz : Europe | namz : North America   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument DJDN000020161214ecce0032k  



 HDFed Officials See More Rate Rises Coming In 2017   WC531 words   PD14 December 2016   ET20:00   SNDow Jones Institutional News   SCDJDN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright © 2016, Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 
   LP
 
   By Michael S. Derby 
 

WASHINGTON--Federal Reserve officials now expect to raise short-term interest rate more often next year, amid a little changed economic outlook.
   TDOfficials penciled in around three rate rises for 2017 that would leave their overnight target rate at a median level of 1.4% for that year, up from 1.1% in forecasts released in September. They see an additional three increases each in 2018 and 2019, with the median rate target at 2.9% for the latter year. The forecasts show less consensus among policymakers about rate actions after next year.

Despite the change in monetary views, officials views on growth, hiring and inflation aren't much different relative to September. On the inflation front, policymakers still expect to get back to their 2% price target in 2018.

The Fed's updated forecasts were released as part of their Federal Open Market Committee gathering, held over Tuesday and Wednesday. At that gathering officials met broad expectations that they'd raise their short-term interest rate target, moving from the 0.25% to 0.50% range in place since last December to 0.50% to 0.75%.

The forecasts and interest rate projections released by the Fed are surrounded by greater uncertainty than usual. The unexpected election of Donald Trump and the extension of Republican control over congress portend significant policy changes in the years ahead.

While no one knows what will happen, many observers reckon elected leaders are likely to embark on deficit-fueled spending programs and put in place other changes that could drive economic growth up for a time. That could drive the Fed to raise rates more than it now expects.

Over recent weeks Fed officials have noted they'll change their respective outlooks when new policies are put in place. They've said they are unlikely to change their forecasts based on expectations of what congress and the president might put in place.

On December 6, New York Fed President William Dudley, who also serves as vice chairman of the FOMC, said "it is premature to reach firm conclusions about what will likely occur" under the new administration. "As we get greater clarity over the coming year, I will update my assessment of the economic outlook and, with that, my views about the appropriate stance of monetary policy," he said then.

In the forecasts, Fed officials now expect the U.S. gross domestic product to come in at 1.9% for this year, versus the 1.8% median estimate from September. For 2017 officials project GDP at a 2.1% rise, from the prior estimate of 2%. Policymakers still see the economy's long-run growth rate at 1.8%.

For 2017, Fed officials median view for what's now a 4.6% jobless rate moved to 4.7%, versus September's estimate of 4.8%. In 2018 unemployment is see at 4.5%. Inflation is seen hitting 1.9% next year, matching September's estimate. 


 
   Write to Michael S. Derby at michael.derby@wsj.com 
 

(MORE TO FOLLOW) Dow Jones Newswires

December 14, 2016 14:00 ET (19:00 GMT)
   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | effund : Interbank Rate | gvbod : Government Bodies | m131 : Money Markets | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | m14 : Commodity Markets | m141 : Agricultural Commodity Markets | ncmac : Commodities Asset Class News | nenac : Energy Asset Class News | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | nfiac : Fixed Income Asset Class News | nfxacb : Forex Asset Class Basic News | nfxacp : Forex Asset Class Premium News | nhotbn : Hot Business News | ntop : Top Wire News | nttwn : Today's Top Wire News | e12 : Monetary Policy | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | ndj : Dow Jones Top Stories | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | redit : Selection of Top Stories/Trends/Analysis   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument DJDN000020161214ecce002xv  



 HDFed Signal On Rates Fuels Rise In Dollar   BYBy Mike Bird, Chelsey Dulaney and James Glynn      WC737 words   PD16 December 2016   SNThe Wall Street Journal (Asia Edition)   SCAWSJ   PGA1   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
   LPThe U.S. dollar surged to its highest level in 14 years Thursday, battering emerging-market currencies and pushing the euro closer to parity after the Federal Reserve signaled that it expects to raise interest rates quicker than previously anticipated.

A faster-than-expected rise in U.S. interest rates will fuel the dollar's rally further into next year, with major consequences for U.S. exporters and Asian economies, analysts say. The WSJ Dollar Index, which measures the U.S. currency against 16 others, rose as high as 93.37, its highest level since 2002, marking a gain of more than 1%. The dollar set an eight-year high against the Chinese yuan.
   TD"The biggest risk at this juncture in our view is that markets get ahead of themselves and push the dollar much stronger in short order, which could cause capital outflows from China to pick up further and once again destabilize the [yuan] and global risk appetite," said a Goldman Sachs research note.

The current leg in the dollar's rise came after Fed officials said on Wednesday they would increase the federal-funds target rate by a quarter percentage point, to between 0.50% and 0.75%.

The Fed now expects the median fed-funds rate to be 1.4% by the end of 2017, reaching 2.1% at the end of 2018 and 2.9% in 2019. That implies three quarter-percentage-point interest-rate increases over each of the next three years, a faster pace than officials projected in September, when they only anticipated two rate increases next year.

The effects of the strong dollar are already rattling across the wider world. A stronger greenback adds pressure on emerging-market nations like China by making their dollar-denominated debt more expensive to pay back, while U.S. higher rates make their assets less attractive to investors seeking yield. Emerging markets have already faced aggressive selling and outflows of funds since the U.S. election, prompting central banks in China, Malaysia and Mexico to step in to defend their currencies.

In late morning in New York, the dollar was up 0.6% against the Chinese yuan, 0.7% against the Mexican peso and 0.6% against the Malaysian ringgit. Morgan Stanley analysts see South Africa, Indonesia, Mexico, Turkey and Colombia as particularly vulnerable to U.S. rates.

Developed-market currencies are also coming under pressure. While the Federal Reserve is tightening monetary policy, rates in Japan and most of Europe remain in negative territory. The European Central Bank and the Bank of Japan are still pursuing large-scale bond-buying programs.

The dollar rose to 118.44 yen by midday in New York, compared with roughly 115.0 yen before the Fed announcement.

Currency strategists at Goldman Sachs believe the yen has further to fall, forecasting an exchange rate of 125 yen to the dollar in 12 months, close to the 13-year weak point of 125.9 yen reached in mid-2015.

The euro tumbled to its lowest level against the greenback since 2003, dropping 1.1% to $1.0420. The euro could reach parity in the first half of 2017, analysts said.

Societe Generale SA expects the dollar to move to parity against the euro, "on the combination of an accelerating U.S. economy and rising European political risk," said Societe Generale foreign-exchange analyst Alvin Tan.

"This is what happens when two [interest-rate increases] becomes three," said Ray Attrill, the head of currency strategy at National Australia Bank Ltd. "Some of the [Fed] members are taking on board the prospect of more growth-supportive and inflationary fiscal policy next year."

The dollar has been rallying since the Nov. 8 U.S. election, as investors bet President-elect Donald Trump's promises of more expansive fiscal policy will boost U.S. economic growth and inflation.

Richard Grace, the global head of currency strategy at the Commonwealth Bank of Australia, said the Fed is navigating its way through some tricky waters. Fed Chairwoman Janet Yellen has acknowledged the potential for stronger economic growth if big infrastructure spending by the Trump administration occurs, while also acknowledging that monetary conditions have tightened in the past month as the dollar and U.S. bond yields have risen, he said.

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   COfed : Federal Reserve Board   NSm132 : Foreign Exchange News | e1202 : Interest Rates | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | ecat : Economic News | gvbod : Government Bodies | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | npag : Page-One Stories | e12 : Monetary Policy | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter   REchina : China | usa : United States | col : Colombia | eurz : Europe | indon : Indonesia | mex : Mexico | safr : South Africa | turk : Turkey | africaz : Africa | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | balkz : Balkan States | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | lamz : Latin America | meastz : Middle East | medz : Mediterranean | namz : North America | samz : South America | seasiaz : Southeast Asia | souafrz : Southern Africa | wasiaz : Western Asia   IPCFED | USG | NND | TPX | PGO | TPT   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument AWSJ000020161215eccg00022  



 HDWRAPUP 5-Fed lifts rates, sees faster pace of hikes in Trump's first year   WC911 words   PD14 December 2016   ET22:56   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2016 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved. 
   LP* Fed funds rate raised to range of 0.50 pct to 0.75 pct

* Central bank sees three hikes in 2017
   TD* Yellen cites early adjustments to Trump policies

* Investors sell shorter-dated U.S. Treasuries, stocks

By Howard Schneider and Lindsay Dunsmuir

WASHINGTON, Dec 14 (Reuters) - The U.S. Federal Reserve raised interest rates on Wednesday and signaled a faster pace of increases in 2017 as central bankers adapted to the incoming Trump administration's promises of tax cuts, spending and deregulation.

The increase in the federal funds rate to a range of between 0.50 percent and 0.75 percent was widely expected. But the prospect of a brisker monetary tightening contributed to a selloff in shorter-dated U.S. Treasuries and stocks.

In a news conference following the unanimous rate decision, Fed Chair Janet Yellen said Donald Trump's election had put the central bank under a "cloud of uncertainty" and already prompted some policymakers to shift their view of what's to come.

"All the (Federal Open Market Committee) participants recognize that there is considerable uncertainty about how economic policies may change and what effect they may have on the economy," Yellen said.

Though Trump's inauguration is still a month away, she said "some of the participants" had begun shifting their assumptions about fiscal policy. At least five of 17 Fed policymakers appeared to have boosted their interest rate outlook since September, according to the new "dot plot" of rate projections.

The Fed chief was peppered with questions about the president-elect, refusing to comment on his penchant for tweeting about companies or to give advice on how any fiscal, tax or trade plan should be structured.

"I am not going to offer the incoming president advice about how to conduct himself," Yellen said.

Trump, critical of Yellen during the campaign and considered likely to replace her when her term ends in early 2018, had not by late afternoon issued any comment about the Fed's rate decision, in line with his predecessors' practice.

Yields on shorter-dated Treasuries hit their highest levels in more than five years and U.S. stocks fell in choppy action. The dollar rose against a basket of currencies. Gold hit its lowest level in more than 10 months and oil prices also declined.

Partly as a result of the changes anticipated under Trump, the Fed sees three rate hikes in 2017 instead of the two foreseen as of September.

Yellen called that a "very modest adjustment" driven also by strong job gains and evidence of faster inflation. Wednesday's rate increase should be "understood as a reflection of the confidence we have in the progress the economy has made," she said.

TRUMP IMPACT

Fresh economic forecasts, the first since Trump won the Nov. 8 election on promises of tax cuts and increased infrastructure spending, showed policymakers shifting their outlook to one of slightly faster growth, lower unemployment and inflation just under the Fed's 2 percent target.

The projected three rate increases next year would be followed by another three increases in both 2018 and 2019 before the rate levels off at a long-run "normal" 3.0 percent. That is slightly higher than three months ago, a sign the Fed feels the economy is still gaining traction.

Markets and the Fed appeared to be close on their rate outlooks, with Fed futures markets pricing in at least two and possibly three hikes in 2017.

The Fed's policy statement "didn't mention the fiscal stimulus but typically their aggressiveness does indicate that there's a little more confidence that they can get away with three hikes next year," said Aaron Kohli, interest rate strategist at BMO Capital Markets.

The central bank continued to describe that pace as "gradual," keeping policy still slightly loose and supporting some further improvement in the job market. It sees unemployment falling to 4.5 percent next year and remaining at that level, which is considered to be close to full employment. The economy is projected to grow 2.1 percent in 2017, up from a previous forecast of 2.0 percent.

U.S. bond yields had already begun moving higher following Trump's victory and as expectations of the Fed rate increase solidified. All 120 economists in a recent Reuters poll had expected a rate hike on Wednesday.

In the weeks following the election, Fed policymakers have said Trump's proposals could push the economy into a higher gear in the short run. Even though the details of the Republican businessman's plans remain uncertain, Wednesday marked a rare case in which the Fed moved its interest rate outlook higher in the era after the 2007-2009 financial crisis.

Risks to the outlook remain "roughly balanced" between factors that could slow or accelerate the economy beyond what the central bank anticipates, the Fed said, no change from its assessment last month.

The rate increase was the first since last December and only the second since the crisis, when the Fed cut rates to near zero and deployed other tools such as massive bond purchases to stabilize the economy.

(Reporting by Howard Schneider; Additional reporting by Lindsay Dunsmuir and Jason Lange in Washington, Ann Saphir in San Francisco and Jonathan Spicer and Karen Brettell in New York; Editing by David Chance and Paul Simao) 
   RFReleased: 2016-12-14T22:56:22.000Z   COfed : Federal Reserve Board   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | e1116 : Employment/Unemployment | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ecat : Economic News | effund : Interbank Rate | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | c171 : Share Capital | e12 : Monetary Policy | c17 : Corporate Funding | cactio : Corporate Actions | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCSERVICE:AUF | SERVICE:CANT | SERVICE:G | SERVICE:RBN | SERVICE:J | SERVICE:ABN | SERVICE:M | SERVICE:MNI | SERVICE:RAST | SERVICE:ABX | SERVICE:BNX | SERVICE:FUN | SERVICE:UKI | SERVICE:AFA | SERVICE:CSA | SERVICE:LBY | SERVICE:RWSA | SERVICE:RWS | SERVICE:REULB | SERVICE:GNS | SERVICE:Z | SERVICE:C | SERVICE:D | SERVICE:E | SERVICE:O | SERVICE:U | SERVICE:MTL | SERVICE:GRO | SERVICE:SOF | SERVICE:OIL | SERVICE:RNP | SERVICE:DNP | SERVICE:PGE | LANG:en | f | DBT | MMT | MNEY | MTG | GVD | AGN | MCE | ECON | INT | PLCY | JOB | US | MPLT | NEWS1 | CEN | WASH | POL | FED | BACT | INDU | AMERS | NAMER | GEN | ECO | USA | PIA | OVR | OEC   IPDBusiness | Economy | Politics | US | Media type Pictures | Indicates that the story contains video content | Reports | Media type Graphics | USA-FED/ (WRAPUP 5, PIX, TV, GRAPHICS) | USA | FED | (WRAPUP 5, PIX, TV, GRAPHICS)   PUBThomson Reuters (Markets) LLC   ANDocument LBA0000020161214ecce00sy3  



 SEEconomy   HDTranscript: Janet Yellen 's December Postmeeting Press Conference;  Federal Reserve  chairwoman explains reasons behind the central bank's rate increase   WC6,588 words   PD15 December 2016   ET00:20   SNThe Wall Street Journal Online   SCWSJO   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
   LPFederal Reserve Chairwoman Janet Yellen addressed the media after the central bank decided to raise short-term interest rates at its policy meeting ended Wednesday, Dec. 14, 2016. Here is a transcript of her press conference, provided by CQ Roll Call .

YELLEN: Good afternoon.
   TDToday, the Federal Open Market Committee decided to raise the target range for the federal funds rate by one quarter percentage point, bringing it to one half to three quarters percent. In doing so, my colleagues and I are recognizing the considerable progress the economy has made toward our dual objectives of maximum employment and price stability.

YELLEN: Over the past year, two and a quarter million net new jobs have been created, unemployment has fallen further and inflation has moved closer to our longer-run goal of two percent. We expect the economy will continue to perform well, with the job market strengthening further and inflation rising to two percent over the next couple of years.

I'll have more to say about monetary policy shortly, but first I'll review recent economic developments in the outlook. Economic growth has picked up since the middle of the year. Household spending continues to rise at a moderate pace, supported by income gains and by relatively high levels of consumer sentiment and wealth. Business investment, however, remains soft despite some stabilization in the energy sector.

Overall, we expect the economy will expand at a moderate pace over the next few years. Job gains average nearly 180,000 per month over the past three months, maintaining the solid pace that we've seen since the beginning of the year. Over the past seven years, since the depths of the great recession, more than 15 million jobs have been added to the U.S. economy. The unemployment rate fell to 4.6 percent in November, the lowest level since 2007 prior to the recession.

Broader measures of labor market slack have also moved lower and participation in the labor force has been little changed on net for about two years now, a further sign of improved conditions in the labor market given the underlying downward trend in participation stemming largely from the aging of the U.S. population. Looking ahead, we expect that job conditions will strengthen somewhat further.

Turning to inflation, the 12-month change in the price index for personal consumption expenditures was nearly 1.5 percent in October. Still short of our two percent objective, but up more than a percentage point from a year earlier. Core inflation, which excludes energy and food prices that tend to be more volatile than other prices, has risen to one and three quarters percent.

As the transitory influences of earlier declines in energy prices and prices of imports continue to fade and as the job market strengthens further, we expect overall inflation to rise to two percent over the next couple of years.

Our inflation outlook rests importantly on our judgment that longer-run inflation expectations remain reasonably well anchored. Market-based measures of inflation compensation have moved up considerably, but are still low. Survey-based measures of longer-run inflation expectations are on balance little changed. Of course, we remain committed to our two percent inflation objective and will continue to carefully monitor actual and expected progress toward this goal.

Let me now turn to the economic projections that were submitted for this meeting by committee participants. As always, they conditioned their projections on their own individual views of appropriate monetary policy, which, in turn, depend on each participant's assessment of the multitude of factors that shape the outlook. The median projection for growth of inflation adjusted gross domestic product rises from 1.9 percent this year to 2.1 percent in 2017 and stays close to two percent in 2018 and 2019, slightly above its estimated longer-run rate. The median projection for the unemployment rate stands at 4.7 percent in the fourth quarter of this year.

YELLEN: Over the next three years, the median unemployment rate runs at 4.5 percent, modestly below the median estimate of its longer- run normal rate. Finally, the median inflation projection is 1.5 percent this year and rises to 1.9 percent next year and 2 percent in 2018 and 2019.

Overall, these economic projections are very similar to those made in September. GDP growth is a touch stronger. The unemployment rate is a shade lower. And inflation beyond this year is unchanged.

Returning to monetary policy, the committee judged that a modest increase in the federal funds rate is appropriate in light of the solid progress we have seen toward our goals of maximum employment and 2 percent inflation.

We continue to expect that the evolution of the economy will warrant only gradual increases in the federal funds rate over time to achieve and maintain our objectives.

That's based on our view that the neutral, nominal federal funds rate, that is, the interest rate that is neither expansionary nor contractionary, and keeps the economy operating on an even keel, is currently quite low by historical standards.

With the federal funds rate only modestly below the neutral rate, we continue to expect that gradual increases in the federal funds rate will likely be sufficient to get to a neutral policy stance over the next few years.

This view is consistent with participants' projections of appropriate monetary policy. The median projection for the federal funds rate rises to 1.4 percent at the end of next year, 2.1 percent at the end of 2018, and 2.9 percent by the end of 2019.

Compared with the projections made in September, the median path to the federal funds rate has been revised up just a quarter of a percentage point. Only a few participants altered their estimate of the longer-run normal federal funds rate, although the median edged up to 3 percent.

Of course, the economic outlook is highly uncertain, and participants will adjust their assessments of the appropriate path to the federal funds rate in response to changes to the economic outlook and associated risks.

As many observers have noted, changes in fiscal policy or other economic policies could potentially affect the economic outlook.

Of course, it is far too early to know how these policies will unfold. Moreover, changes in fiscal policy are only one of the many factors that can influence the outlook and the appropriate course of monetary policy.

In making our policy decisions, we will continue, as always, to assess economic conditions relative to our objectives of maximum employment and 2 percent inflation. As I've noted on previous occasions, policy is not on a pre-set course.

Finally, we will continue to reinvest proceeds from maturing Treasury securities and principal payments from agency debt and mortgage-backed securities. As our statement says, we anticipate continuing this policy until normalization of the level of the federal funds rate is well under way.

Thank you. I'd be happy to take your questions.

QUESTION: Thank you, Madam Chair. Harriet Tory (ph) with The Wall Street Journal.

Why does the Fed now see three rate increases next year instead of two? Is it because the economy is at risk of overheating, or is the Fed behind the curve? Or is this a reaction to Donald Trump 's election?

YELLEN: Well, I would like to emphasize that this is a very modest adjustment in the path of the federal funds rate, and involves changes by only, you know, some of -- you know, some of the participants.

So, in thinking about the paths and the revisions, there are a number of factors that were taken into account by participants. The unemployment rate is perhaps a touch -- as I said, a touch lower than previously you've seen some modest downward revisions in that -- in that projection. For this year, there was a slight upward revision to inflation.

YELLEN: And some of the participants, but not all of the participants, did incorporate some assumption of a change in fiscal policy into their projections. And that may have been a factor that was one of several that occasioned these shifts.

But I want to emphasize that the shifts that you see here are really very tiny.

QUESTION: Steve Liesman, CNBC.

In recent testimony, you said your advice was for fiscal authorities to increase the productive capacity of the economy. Do individual and business tax cuts increase the productive capacity of the economy? And how would the Fed's reaction be different to fiscal policies that increase the productive capacity of the economy and those that don't?

YELLEN: So, the statement that I made that it would be useful to increase the productive capacity of the economy reflects my concern that productivity growth has been very low. It's the ultimate determination of the evolution of living standards.

Policies that would improve productivity growth would include policy changes that enhance education, training, work force development. Policies that spur either private or public investment to enhance the quality of capital in the United States that workers have to work with and policies that spur innovation or competition or the formation of new firms. So tax policies can have that effect. It really depends on the specifics.

I don't think there's anything that I could say in general about what tax policy would do, but -- and I really can't tell you what the Fed's response would be to any policy changes that are put into effect. I wouldn't want to speculate until I were more certain of the details and how they would affect the likely course of the economy.

QUESTION: I'm sorry, but if there was a rush of fiscal policy that did not increase the productive capacity of the economy, would that mean the Federal Reserve would have to move more quickly with raising rates?

YELLEN: You know, it's something I really just can't generalize about because while it would be desirable to have tax policies that do increase the productive capacity of the economy, an increase in the pace of productivity changes one of the factors that does affect the economy's neutral rate, a boost to productivity could spur investment is -- we've been saying, we estimate that the value of the neutral federal funds rate is quite low, and one of the reasons for that is slow productivity growth.

And so it's very hard to generalize about it because it could affect that neutral rate.

QUESTION: (inaudible) with the L.A. Times.

For the average American, can you explain what the impact of this hike and three additional hikes will be next year? And should they feel more confident in the economy now that you are raising rates at a slightly faster pace?

YELLEN: So let me say that our decision to raise rates is -- certainly be understood as a reflection of the confidence we have in the progress the economy has made and our judgment that that progress will continue and the economy has proven to be remarkably resilient. So it is a vote of confidence in the economy.

As you know, this was a decision that was well anticipated in markets, and I think it will have relatively small effect on market rates. It could boost very slightly some short-term interest rates that could have an effect on borrowing costs that are linked to them. But overall, I think that households and firms will see very modest changes from this decision.

YELLEN: But certainly, it's important for households and businesses to understand that my colleagues and I have judged the course of the U.S. economy to be strong, that we're making progress toward our inflation and unemployment goals. We have a strong labor market and we have a resilient economy.

QUESTION: Sam Flemming from the Financial Times . Clearly, there's been a lot of discussion already about fiscal but (ph) - a fiscal policy. But even if you discount or don't know what the fiscal outlook is gonna be next year, unemployment is already below the longer-run projection.

Under the policy rule you cited in your August speech, that would suggest that a - a policy ought to be tighter. Is there a risk that the Federal Reserve is already behind the curve even before any fiscal impact steps in next year? Thanks.

YELLEN: So, I would agree that - and as we said in our statement, policy remains accommodative. The degree of accommodation I would characterize as moderate.

As I've emphasized and said in the statement, we currently judge the neutral level of the federal funds rate to be pretty low. So, there is some accommodation. Remember that inflation is still below our objective.

The committee projects - at least the median projection shows a very modest undershoot of estimates of the longer-run normal rate of unemployment. The median unemployment rate here gets down to 4 1/2 percent which is just a few tenths below the estimated longer-run normal level of the unemployment rate. And we think that that's appropriate because we want inflation to rise toward 2 percent objective in a timely fashion.

So there is not a substantial undershoot of the natural rate of unemployment. We're not seeing evidence in labor markets of very substantial upward pressures on labor that could signify extreme shortages of labor that could propel inflation higher in a very rapid way. And inflation is still operating below our objective.

So, I do not judge that we are behind the curve. I've - my - my judgment is that we're on a good path to reaching our objectives. But of course, the outlook is uncertain.

We recognize that there are many sources of uncertainty affecting the outlook. And we will have to adjust our thinking as things evolve, as conditions - conditions evolve and we learn more about economic policy changes that could affect the outlook.

QUESTION: Jim Taggerson (ph), Washington Post .

YELLEN: Of course.

QUESTION: I - I'm curious. You and your predecessor had both at times called for more fiscal stimulus to help with the outlook - the growth outlook. But I'm wondering how much do you judge the economy has capacity for fiscal stimulus right now?

As - as a version of - of Steve's question. But I - I think we're trying to get at how - how much can happen before we run that risk of overheating?

YELLEN: Well, I believe my predecessor and I called for fiscal stimulus when the unemployment rate was substantially higher than it is now. So, with a 4.6 percent unemployment and a solid labor market, there may be some additional slack in labor markets.

But I would judge that the degree of slack is diminished. So, I would say at this point that fiscal policy is not obviously needed to provide stimulus to help us get back to full employment.

But nevertheless, let me be careful that I am not trying to provide advice to the new administration or to Congress as to what is the appropriate stance of policy. There are many considerations that Congress needs to take account of and many bases for justifying changing fiscal policy.

I've continued to highlight the importance of spurring productivity growth that I think that would be something that's beneficial for the economy. Of course, it's also important for Congress to account of the fact that as our population ages, that the debt to GDP ratio is projected to rise. And that needs to continue to be taken into account.

YELLEN: And so there are many factors that I think should enter into such decisions.

MODERATOR: Chris (ph) and then Lindsay (ph).

QUESTION: Chris Condon, Bloomberg News. Chair Yellen, you've just spoken about some of the risks, the inflationary risks of running an expansionary fiscal policy. But in October, you were wondering whether it might be possible to repair some of the damage done to the labor force during the recession by running what you termed "a high- pressure economy."

So I'm wondering why couldn't fiscal policy serve the same end in seeking to run a high-pressure economy, hoping to draw more Americans off the sidelines and into the workforce? Is there something necessarily riskier about approaching it from the fiscal side? Or perhaps you become less enthusiastic about the idea of running a high- pressure economy?

Thank you.

YELLEN: So, I want to be clear that what I said in that speech in Boston is that an important research question is whether or not in an economy with a very strong labor market, there might be changes that took place that permanently raise the labor force participation, training and other things of the labor force, that would be positives for the productive potential of our economy on a long-lasting basis.

I never said that I favor running a high-pressure economy. And, you know, as -- as you can see in the SEP (ph) projections of the participants, and this has long been true, not just in this forecast, but in earlier ones as well. You see a modest under-shooting. The unemployment rate is projected to modestly under-shoot for several years, levels that are deemed to be normal in longer run.

That's an appropriate (ph) policy, purely on the grounds that inflation is running below our objective, and while we don't want to over-shoot our two percent objective, we also don't want a persistent under-shoot of our two percent objective. And that does involve a labor market that may succeed in attracting more people off the sidelines into the labor market. It's something we'll -- we will see as we examine experience over the next couple of years. We may adjust our views on this.

But I do want to make clear that I have not recommended running a hot economy as some sort of experiment. QUESTION: Hi, Lindsay Dunsmuir with Reuters.

How comfortable are you with possible interference on Fed policy by the incoming president? And I'm talking there about the negative impact his tweets on aerospace companies in the last week have had on their share prices. And do you feel having a president tweeting about individual companies, do you feel that that could begin to distort corporate decision-making?

YELLEN: Well, I'm not going to offer the incoming president advice about how to conduct himself in policy. I'm a strong believer in the independence of the Fed. We have been given the independence by Congress to make decisions about monetary policy in pursuit of our dual mandate objectives of maximum employment and inflation.

And that is what I intend to stay focused on. That's what the committee is focused on.

QUESTION: (inaudible) the New York Times .

The president-elect has said that overhauling financial regulation is a high priority for him. I'm curious whether the Fed has been asked to provide any advice on how that might be done? And what advice you would provide for the president-elect about how our financial regulatory system should be improved?

YELLEN: So, we have been -- our staff have been in touch with the Trump transition team. And we, of course, share the objective that the full government has to work constructively to ensure a smooth transition. I've not been in touch beyond that and it's not something that I would expect.

But -- I'm sorry -- so...

(CROSSTALK)

YELLEN: About the financial -- yes.

So, OK, on financial regulation, I feel that we lived through a devastating financial crisis that took a huge toll on our economy. And most members of Congress and the public came away from that experience feeling that it was important to take a set of steps that would result in a safer and stronger financial system.

And I feel that we have done that. That has been our mission since the financial crisis for the last six or seven years. That's what Dodd-Frank was designed to do. I think it's very important that we have reduced the odds that a systemically important firm could fail by requiring higher capital, higher liquidity by performing stress tests that provide us another way of ensuring that the firms we count on to supply credit to households and businesses would be able to go on doing that even in the face of a severely adverse shock.

The firms -- the largest firms have a great deal more capital than they did before the crisis. Those are important changes. We have placed the toughest regulations on those firms that are systemically important. I would advise that -- and we have been trying to do this, that it's important to look for ways to relieve regulatory burden on community banks and smaller institutions, to tailor regulation so that it's appropriate for the systemic risk profile of the particular institutions.

I think there was broad agreement also that we should end too big to fail, and that means not only reducing the odds of the failure of systemically important institution, but also making sure that should such a firm fail, that it could be resolved in an orderly way. And the living wills process has been about that, and I think we've made considerable progress in making sure that the largest and most systemic firms conduct their businesses in the day-to-day way with some thought about -- with important thinking in place about whether or not the way they're conducting their business would aid resolution in the event that they encountered a severe negative shock. So this is progress, I would say. It's very important not to -- not to roll back. There may be some changes that could be made, and we've suggested a few, like eliminating the burden of compliance with the Volcker Rule or incentive compensation regulations for smaller banks or modestly raising the threshold for banks that are subject to enhanced prudential supervision. But I would -- I would urge that it's important to keep -- to keep this in place.

QUESTION: Marty Crutsinger with the Associated Press.

The election of Donald Trump seemed to have -- spark a major reaction in financial markets; stock prices at record highs, the dollar has strengthened, long-term interest rates are higher. Did any of that get discussed in the meeting? And did -- do you feel that it will have any effect, either negative or positive, on things?

And also, did you have any broader discussion about Trump's economic plan and what it might do and how the Fed might have to react?

YELLEN: So we did -- we did discuss these topics in our meeting today. I would simply summarize by saying that all the FOMC participants recognize that there is considerable uncertainty about how economic policies may change and what effect they will have on the economy. And insofar as that will affect monetary policy, of course we will have to factor those policies along with many other things, including the global environment and oil prices and other matters. We will have to factor that into our outlook and figure out what is an appropriate response.

But we are operating under a cloud of uncertainty at the moment and we have time to wait to see what changes occur and to factor those into our decision-making as we attain greater clarity.

You mentioned the market moves. So I see the market moves as implicit forecasts about what impact these policies are likely to have on the economy.

The changes -- the financial market changes that you have described, particularly the increase in stock prices, the increase in longer-term rates, and the strengthening of the dollar suggest that many market participants anticipate expansionary fiscal policies that would raise interest rates somewhat in the United States relative to abroad, and would cause a strengthening in the dollar.

But market participants are uncertain too. And I would expect changes in our understanding of what is going to happen to also affect market prices in financial markets as we move forward.

QUESTION: Hi, Nancy (ph). Marcia Gensler (ph) with "Marketplace."

I am wondering about slack. When do you think the slack in the labor market will have worked its way through so we are no longer talking about it at press conferences and it's not such a big issue? YELLEN: So this is not something that is possible to judge precisely. My colleagues write down their best estimates of a normal longer-run unemployment rate, the median stands at 4.8 percent. So we are close, possibly the unemployment rate is ever so slightly below but in the neighborhood.

If we look at larger, broader measures of slack, like the U-6 measure that includes involuntary part-time employment, and those who are marginally attached to the labor force, they are slightly higher than pre-recession levels, but they have come down considerably.

We look at a broad array of indicators of the labor market. And if you look at job openings, or the hires rate, or the click (ph) rate, or difficulty of hiring workers as reported in business surveys, you know, I would say the labor market looks a lot like the way it did before the recession.

That it's -- we're roughly comparable to 2007 levels when we thought there was a normal amount of slack in the labor market. The labor market was in the vicinity of maximum employment.

QUESTION: Michael McKee from Bloomberg Television and Radio.

Given President-elect Trump's criticism of your low-rate policy during the campaign, like it or not, market participants are going to focus a lot in 2017 on you. You've suggested you will serve out your term but I'm curious if that statement still holds, if you would like another term as Fed chair, if you would accept another term as Fed chair. And would you stay on the committee if you are not Fed chair?

YELLEN: So I guess the way I think about it is that I was confirmed by the Senate to a four-year term. The term of the Fed chair was not meant to coincide with that of the president. And there were good reasons for that too. It's part of ensuring the independence of the Fed.

And so I do intend to serve out my four-year term. I haven't made any decision about the future. I recognize I might or might not be reappointed. It's a decision that I don't have to make and don't have thoughts on at this time. And as you said, I recognize too that I could stay on as a board member and that is a decision for another day.

QUESTION: Peter Barnes (ph), FOX Business.

Just to follow up on Marty's (ph) question about the financial markets, the Dow is about to hit 20,000. It is up substantially since the election on apparently investor optimism about the potential impact of President-elect Trump's policies on the economy and an approving economy.

I wonder if you share that optimism, number one. And if not, are we seeing a bout of perhaps rational exuberance right now or are you concerned at all about a bubble in equity prices that could create some financial instability in the economy? YELLEN: So, you know, I really don't want to comment on the level of stock prices. They may have been boosted by expectations about tax policy. possible cuts in corporate tax rates that have been much discussed, or by expectations about growth, possible reductions in downside risk to the economy. But these are things that market participants are trying to view along with the likely path of -- paths of interest rates, and I think all of that factors into movements in stock valuations. But I don't want to offer a view as to whether they're appropriate.

QUESTION: (inaudible) on equity prices, you have talked about whether or not the valuations are still -- are within historical ranges or norms. Is this Dow 20,000 kind of within the historical norms? Are you comfortable with that?

YELLEN: Well I think rates of return in the stock market relative to -- remember that the level of interest rates is low and taking that into account, I believe it's fair to say that they remain within normal ranges.

QUESTION: John Hellmann (ph) of "American Banker". You said that much has been made since the crisis in making banks more secure, more safe, higher liquidity capital levels, et cetera. Does that feeling extended to the culture of the banks? The way that they run, the way that they operate, and their approach towards business? Do you think that more needs to be done there? Do you expect that if there has been improvement that it will continue to be -- the culture will continue to improve in the next administration and the next Congress?

YELLEN: Well, there have been many ways in which there have been compliance failures at large organizations. And you've seen a series of enforcement actions by the banking regulators over a range of practices that suggest some breakdown of compliance or culture. Whether it involves violations of sanctions or foreign exchange or LIBOR or other matters. So this is something we have discussed and emphasized the importance of a culture of compliance. And the board will be undertaking a review. We've already begun this year broadly of compliance and management of compliance risk in the largest corporations, so I think this is something that's important and the failings that we've seen in a number of institutions suggests there is certainly room for improvement.

QUESTION: Greg Rob (ph) from "Market Watch". I'd like to -- two questions, if I might. Follow-up on the question of running the economy hot that you mentioned in your speech up in Boston a couple months ago. You brought it up. Are you now sort of distancing yourself from the idea?

YELLEN: Well, I want to make clear what I said and what I didn't say. One of the things we learned from our financial crisis and from a series of financial crises in history and around the globe is that very commonly, when the economy takes a hit and falls into a recession, that productivity doesn't pick up to pre-recession levels and that there looks like there is a permanent hit to the path of potential output for the economy, which is called hysteresis. And I raised the question as to whether or not this might operate in the opposite direction as well.

We have seen quite a few people who lost their jobs during the great recession drop out of the labor force and lose their ties and become discouraged and not reenter. And I raised the question as to whether or not hysteresis could operate in the opposite direction. And that was a research question for economists to see if there is any evidence because it could be important in determining policy. But I didn't draw any policy conclusions from that. And as I indicated, I think the path that you see that the committee has laid out in a tentative way, that involves a modest degree of under-shooting of normal longer-run levels of unemployment going down to around 4.5 percent, would remain for a couple of years, might provide some insight.

So, I was not recommending a substantially easier policy in order to test that hypothesis.

QUESTION: My question that I had before that followup was: Both times you've raised rates in this cycle, the market expectations of a rate-hike have been over 50 percent. The market has, you know, kind of priced it in. Is that a prerequisite going forward? Will that have to happen as you go forward?

YELLEN: It's not a prerequisite, but we do try to explain our evolving views as clearly as we can. It's important for market participants to have a sense of how we think about the economy and the appropriate path of policy, to look at incoming data and to form their own judgments as to whether or not changes in policy would be appropriate.

And while it's not a prerequisite, if we're in good sync in terms of explaining what goes into our policy judgments, it's not surprising that it would often be true that moves are well anticipated by the market.

As I said, in thinking about today's move, we've indicated that we thought we were making progress on our objectives. We wanted to see some more. I think anyone looking at incoming data can clearly see that we have -- we have enjoyed further progress both in the labor market and on inflation. And therefore, there are good reasons why the market should have anticipated a move today.

QUESTION: Chair Yellen, Patrick Gillespie with CNN .

There's been a lot of discussion about manufacturing jobs and trade. I'm wondering what do you think are two or three concrete steps that could be taken to increase manufacturing employment in the United States. And separately, I've asked you about the importance of job training programs, something that you've emphasized.

Specifically, what do you think about the worker assistance provided to workers who lose their jobs to trade -- both the financial assistance and the worker retraining programs? Are they sufficient?

YELLEN: So, I don't want to weigh in. I don't intend to weigh- in. I haven't weighed in on either fiscal policy specifics, of evaluating policies. I'm not going to weigh in either on the details or particular trade policies.

But more generally, I'd say, you asked me about manufacturing. There were a lot of manufacturing jobs lost over a long period of time, and particularly after -- during the Great Recession.

We've had some recovery in manufacturing employment as the economy has recovered. So to some extent, manufacturing employment depends on the progress of the economy. And we have seen some recovery.

Over a long period of time, technological change is something that has been important in reducing manufacturing employment absolutely and as a share of jobs in the economy. For decades, the pace of technological change in manufacturing has outstripped that in the economy as a whole. And so, firms -- manufacturing firms have found it easier to continue producing with reducing their workforces. And that's a change that I would expect to continue.

You mentioned worker assistance. So, some of the forces are acting on manufacturing and other sectors, including technological change and globalization. Even though most economists would judge the overall consequences of these developments for the economy to be positive, certainly there are groups of workers who were harmed by developments pertaining to globalization and technology.

And I think most economists and policy-makers recognize that it's important to provide ways for workers who were harmed by these kinds of developments to be retrained for jobs so that they can succeed in the economy. And so -- I mean, I would agree without getting into any particular program and whether it's sufficient, I do think it's important to recognize there are those who were harmed by these developments and their concerns, I think, need to be addressed by policymakers, certainly.

QUESTION: Justine Underhill, Yahoo Finance.

So the Fed's balance sheet has grown to over $4 trillion, and as the Fed begins removing policy accommodation, under what circumstances would you see the Fed removing -- possibly winding down its balance sheet and either letting mature -- securities mature or possibly outright selling bonds from the (inaudible) portfolio?

YELLEN: So we're indicated in our normalization principles that we expect to diminish the size of our portfolio over time, largely by ceasing reinvestments of principle rather than by selling securities.

We've indicated that once the process of normalization of the federal funds rate is well underway, we would probably begin to allow our portfolio to run off. We've not yet made any precise decisions about when that will occur. We want to feel that if the economy were to suffer an adverse shock, that we have some scope through traditional means of interest rate cuts to be able to respond to that.

Now, there's no mechanical rule about what level of the federal funds rate we might deem appropriate to begin that process. It's not something that only depends on the level of the federal funds rate. It also depends on our judgment of the momentum in the economy and possible concerns about downside risks to the economy. So we've not yet made this decision, but it is something that we have long planned to begin to allow our balance sheet to run off and then it would take several years. And we would end up, if all goes well, with a substantially smaller balance sheet than we have at present.

QUESTION: Mike Dury (ph) from Dow Jones News Wires.

Wondered if the unexpected outcome of the election -- and sensed that a lot of people are really upset with how the economy's performing despite having, you know, aggregate economic statistics that look pretty good. Is that causing you in any way to think differently about how you evaluate the economy, like what sort of things you look for to get a sense of what's going on in the economy? Is -- you know, basically, did how things turned out in the election, is it making you think differently about how you evaluate the economy's performance and how it's doing?

YELLEN: Well, I mean, we've long been aware, and I've spoken about previously disturbing trends in the economy, particularly rising wage inequality, income inequality and the fact that a significant share of our population hasn't been enjoying significant real wage gains, if any.

And so these are long-standing concerns. These are not new phenomenon, but the recession was very severe and probably exacerbated developments that had long been affecting many American workers and households. And I think they are quite disturbing.

Now, there are ones that the Fed is not well positioned -- I think our policies can effect the general level of economic activity and slack in the labor market, the level -- the rate of inflation, which we focus on. But I think it's important for policymakers more broadly to be attentive to these trends and to think about policies that could -- could address them.

We have been quite attentive with respect to particular demographic groups in the labor market, particularly minorities tend to be very badly effected by downturns. We've discussed that. We've been focused on it -- it's not just since the election -- and are pleased to see that they are enjoying gains. For example, the African-American unemployment rate at this point is now about back to 2007 levels as well.

But these are important trends. And I think it's important for policy to address them.
   COcqroll : CQ Roll Call | fed : Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System   INi814 : Banking | iadv : Advertising/Marketing/Public Relations | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | ifinal : Financial Services | i81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | i83952 : Market Research/Public Relations   NSe12 : Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States | usdc : Washington DC | uss : Southern U.S.   IPCFTM.YY | G/FED | I/ADV | I/BKS | I/BNK | M/CYC | M/FCL | N/CBK | N/ECO | N/EMP | N/GENI | N/IEN | NYT | P/PRO | R/DC | R/NME | R/US   IPDBarnes, Peter | Janet Yellen | McKee, Michael | Trump, Donald | PRO | SYND | WSJ-PRO-CB | Central Banks | WSJPRO   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument WSJO000020161214ecce00c9p  



 HDActivists Blast Fed for Raising Rates   WC452 words   PD14 December 2016   ET22:05   SNDow Jones Institutional News   SCDJDN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright © 2016, Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 
   LP
By Michael S. Derby 

An activist group that has been pressing the Federal Reserve to take better account of the impact of its policies on lower-income Americans said the central bank "blew it" by raising rates Wednesday.
   TD"Today the Fed showed how out of touch they are with the reality of struggling Americans who know we are not yet ready to slow the economy down with rate hikes," Fed Up campaign field director Shawn Sebastian said in a statement. He was reacting to the Fed's widely anticipated decision to boost the cost of borrowing for the first time in a year.

The left-leaning Fed Up organization, which is part of the Center for Popular Democracy, has over the last couple of years mounted a high-profile campaign to press the Fed to keep rates low, believing such a policy will help ensure the economic recovery is enjoyed by all of the nation and not just the wealthy. The group has also taken the Fed to task for the dominance of white men in its leadership ranks.

The group has gotten the Fed's notice, with central bank policy makers regularly meeting with its activists. At the same time, some of the group's agenda was taken up by Congressional Democrats and the unsuccessful presidential campaign of Hillary Clinton. The group's lack of influence among Republicans raises some questions about what lies ahead for its work.

Fed officials have generally countered Fed Up's monetary policy calls by saying interest rate policy is a blunt tool that can't be aimed to help specific demographic groups. At the same time officials have described their desire to raise rates as an effort to normalize monetary policy after the financial crisis. Officials have argued boosting rates isn't designed to slow the economy but to instead sustain expansion and reduce the risk of overheating, which could cause the Fed to drive rates up strongly, risking the onset of a recession.

Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond President Jeffrey Lacker said recently that "the proposed cure" of keeping rates low to help specific groups "may well be worse than the disease."

"What the critics' argument overlooks is the risk that is posed if the Fed overshoots and runs the economy so 'hot' that inflation pressures rise quickly," he said.

In his statement, Mr. Sebastian said, "We urge Fed policymakers to proceed with caution in 2017," adding, "the Fed should keep the wages and hours of workers at the center of its decision making."

Write to Michael S. Derby at michael.derby@wsj.com

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

December 14, 2016 16:05 ET (21:05 GMT)
   COfed : Federal Reserve Board   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | gvbod : Government Bodies | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | ncmac : Commodities Asset Class News | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | nfiac : Fixed Income Asset Class News | nfxacb : Forex Asset Class Basic News | nfxacp : Forex Asset Class Premium News | e12 : Monetary Policy | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument DJDN000020161214ecce003gg  



 HDGold Gains as Dollar Surge Stalls   BYBy Katherine Dunn    WC373 words   PD16 December 2016   ET13:16   SNDow Jones Institutional News   SCDJDN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright © 2016, Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 
   LPLONDON--Gold prices traded higher on Friday morning in London as the dollar weakened, chipping back Thursday's decline on the back of the Federal Reserve's announcement to raise U.S. interest rates.

The spot gold price was up 0.64% at $1,135.51 a troy ounce in midmorning trade, after declining 1.3% on Thursday to a fresh 10-month low.
   TDOn Friday, the dollar was falling back from multiyear highs on Thursday, following the Fed's decision to raise interest rates.

The WSJ Dollar Index, which measures the dollar against a basket of other currencies, was down 0.17%. A weaker dollar is generally bullish for dollar-denominated commodities, because it makes the metal more affordable for investors who hold other currencies.

An interest-rate increase by the Federal Reserve on the other hand, which had been anticipated for months, is generally bearish for the precious metal. Gold doesn't pay interest, unlike many other investments, and so demand typically falters when rates rise and other instruments become more attractive.

However, analysts had warned ahead of the hike that the impact on gold was largely priced into the market, making Thursday's losses relatively muted. Traders will likely now look ahead to the timing and pace of rate increases in 2017.

Expectations of further rate hikes in the coming year could increase pressure on the metal, said Joni Teves, a strategist at UBS.

"In order for gold to recover, there needs to be a catalyst for markets to pare back current optimism and retrace the recent moves in [interest] rates and the U.S. dollar," Ms. Teves said.

Silver was also making a recovery on Friday, after gold's decline dragged the metal sharply lower on Thursday to its own 10-month low. The metal was up 0.75% at $16.14 a troy ounce in midmorning European trade.

Other precious metals were mixed. Platinum was up 0.27% at $901.70 a troy ounce, while palladium was down 1.06% at $693.60 a troy ounce.

Write to Katherine Dunn at Katherine.Dunn@wsj.com

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

December 16, 2016 07:16 ET (12:16 GMT)
   COfed : Federal Reserve Board   NSmpcsmt : Precious Metals Markets | m1421 : Gold Markets | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | gvbod : Government Bodies | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncmac : Commodities Asset Class News | nenac : Energy Asset Class News | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | nfiac : Fixed Income Asset Class News | nfxacb : Forex Asset Class Basic News | nfxacp : Forex Asset Class Premium News | e12 : Monetary Policy | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | m14 : Commodity Markets | m142 : Metals Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter   REuk : United Kingdom | eland : England | usa : United States | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument DJDN000020161216eccg0017y  



 HDUSD/JPY May Be Supported by Fed Rate Expectations -- Market Talk   WC140 words   PD16 December 2016   ET00:55   SNDow Jones Institutional News   SCDJDN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright © 2016, Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 
   LP2355 GMT - The USD/JPY may be supported by the prospects of faster interest rate increases by the Federal Reserve and the Bank of Japan's stance of keeping the domestic bond yield low. Fed now projects three rate rises next year, instead of two previously projected. How resolutely BOJ will attempt to contain yield gains is another important factor going forward. If it does, a wider interest-rate differential between the US and Japan would mean more money flow into dollar-denominated assets. BOJ said Wednesday it would offer to buy government bonds Friday. The USD/JPY is at 118.25, compared to 118.17 late Thursday in New York.(kosaku.narioka@wsj.com)

(END) Dow Jones Newswires
   TDDecember 15, 2016 18:55 ET (23:55 GMT)
   COfed : Federal Reserve Board   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | gvbod : Government Bodies | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mntdbt : National Government Debt/Bond Markets | namt : All Market Talk | ndjmt : Dow Jones Market Talk | nfiac : Fixed Income Asset Class News | nfxacb : Forex Asset Class Basic News | nfxacp : Forex Asset Class Premium News | nfxmt : Foreign Exchange Market Talk | e12 : Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter   REjap : Japan | usa : United States | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument DJDN000020161215eccf004o3  



 HDGlobal Forex and Fixed Income Roundup: Market Talk   WC1,368 words   PD14 December 2016   ET20:58   SNDow Jones Institutional News   SCDJDN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright © 2016, Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 
   LP14:57 ET - The outlook for further inflation continues to be positive due to the likelihood of fiscal expansion and tax reform but also because the labor market is tight and oil prices have stabilised, says Kasia Kiladis, investment director for US equities at Fidelity International. "The frequency and magnitude of further rate hikes will mainly be reliant on the timing and impact of Donald Trump's pro-growth inflationary policies but also his ability to deploy trade tariffs," Kiladis says. Investors continue to be positive on Trump's fiscal stimulus and tax reform policies which could lead to renewed business investment, thereby, driving productivity and economic growth, the investment director says. (emese.bartha@wsj.com; @EmeseBartha)
   TD14:55 ET - Make no mistake: Yellen wants households and businesses to know the Fed's decision to raise short-term interest rates is a vote of confidence in the economy. She notes Fed officials judged the economy to be strong and says the central bank is making progress toward its goals of maximum employment and stable prices. "The economy has proven to be remarkably resilient," adding the decision was well-anticipated by markets and likely will have a relatively small effect on market rates. "Overall, I think households and firms will see very modest changes from this decision." (kate.davidson@wsj.com)

14:53 ET - Utility stocks plummeted after the Federal Reserve raised its target interest rate by 0.25% and signaled three additional increases next year. Utilities pay reliable dividends and offer investors an alternative to bonds when there's little money to be maid in fixed income. Rising rates make the sector less attractive. The Utilities Selector Sector SPDR Fund (XLU) rose as high as $49.44 before the Fed's decision was announced at 2 pm, then tumbled as low as $48.11, according to FactSet. (asjylyn.loder@wsj.com; @asjylyn)

14:53 ET - Fed-fund futures are catching up with central bankers on rate policy. Amid today's rate hike was the biggest grouping of officials anticipating 3 more increases in 2017, with 2 the next-highest prediction. Futures show an 88% chance of at least one hike by November, versus 75% immediately before the top-of-the-hour pronouncements, according to CME data. Also for November, futures are priced in 56% chance for at least 2 hikes, compared with 36%. (chris.dieterich@wsj.com; @chrisdieterich)

19:49 GMT - The FOMC's hike was as expected but "the surprise is that despite sluggish recent quarters, the FOMC members viewed the economic conditions improving and were more optimistic on inflation and growth projections," says Antoine Lesne, EMEA head of ETF strategy at SPDR ETFs. Based on the fiscal stimulus expected to be delivered by the Trump administration the FOMC increased its expectations for more than 2 hikes in 2017, he says. "The jury is still out but this outcome may put further pressure on bonds increasing yields in the shorter end of the curve," he says, adding that higher inflation expectations may benefit TIPS on a relative value basis. "Watch for equities incorporating higher bond yields and this could warrant more caution." (emese.bartha@wsj.com; @EmeseBartha)

14:46 ET - One of the key questions surrounding Janet Yellen's press conference was whether she would directly address the effect of Donald Trump's election last month. Federal Reserve Chairwoman did just that in her opening remarks but did not offer any firm guidance. Yellen said it was too soon to judge how fiscal changes would affect the Fed's outlook. "Changes in fiscal policy are only one of the many factors that can influence the outlook and the appropriate course of economic policy," she said. Yellen also said some Fed officials incorporated possible fiscal policy changes in their economic projections. (david.harrison@wsj.com)

14:42 ET - Amid today's rate hike, House Financial Services Chairman Hensarling (R., Texas) touts a bill which would revamp how the Fed conducts monetary policy. "While today's rate hike was expected, what remains unclear is what comes next." He contends the Financial Choice Act would greatly improve the central bank's transparency and accountability using a rules-based monetary-policy approach. "Hardworking Americans would have more certainty about what comes next so they could better plan for their future." (donna.borak@wsj.com; @donnaborak)

14:40 ET - There may be some nervousness about the Fed raising rates, but investors needn't accept lower returns as a result, says Nigel Green, CEO of London financial-advisory firm DeVere. He posits savvy investors will favor the dollar over other currencies since higher US interest rates will bring overseas capital into the country. Meanwhile, higher dollar-borrowing rates threaten emerging-market corporate debt because the stronger greenback makes interest and capital repayment more expensive in local-currency terms. Green also points out that higher interest will be demanded when debt has to be rolled over. (daisy.maxey@wsj.com; @DaisyMaxey)

14:37 ET - Fed-fund futures showed the odds for the Fed to raise rates by at least 25bps by the June 2017 meeting rose to 74% recently, vs 63% a day earlier, according to CME. The two-year US yield was up 6bps at 1.231%, continuing its normalization from historically low levels. The 10-year yield was up 2.6bps at 2.506%. Despite more than 100bps rise from its record close low, the 10-year yield is only up modestly from 2.273% traded at the end of 2015. Some analysts say this point to more room for the yield to rise in 2017, and revisit 3%--a level traded in early 2014. (min.zeng@wsj.com)

14:26 ET - The Bank of Mexico is expected to follow the Fed's rate increase with one of its own Thursday, but analysts are divided between a quarter- or half-point to follow up four 50-basis-point hike which have already occurred this year. Arguments for a bigger increase include a weak peso and rising inflation expectations, says Nomura, while a slowing economy and the possible need to save ammunition to match further Fed moves in 2017 favor a smaller rise. The peso is weaker in Mexico City, around MXN20.4075/dollar versus MXN20.26 before the Fed decision. (anthony.harrup@wsj.com)

14:25 ET - The Fed's projection of three hikes in 2017 is higher vs 2 increases forecast in September's meeting. The prospect of a faster pace of tightening is driving investors to sell TIPS, reflecting a view that the Fed's action may contain a rise in inflation risk down the road. A main trade after Trump's win has been selling Treasurys to buy TIPS amid upticks in inflation signals. Now the Fed's stance is driving investors to lighten up on this trade--by selling TIPS and moving money back to Treasurys. The 10-year breakeven rate was recently down 3bps to 196bps. (min.zeng@wsj.com)

14:18 ET - The official policy rate, the federal funds rate, is likely to trade around 0.66% as of Thursday when the Fed's decision to raise rates goes into effect, according to a quick poll of money market traders on Wall Street. That would be comfortably inside the Fed's new 0.5%-0.75% target range set by its interest-rate setting panel Wednesday, which lifted the benchmark for the second time in this post-crisis economic period. The fed-funds rate has averaged 0.38% this year, but around 0.41% in recent days. A fed-funds rate of 0.66% would be 0.09 percentage point below the ceiling on the Fed's new range set by the 0.75% interest on reserves or "IOER" rate, and 0.16% above its floor set by the Fed's overnight reverse repo or "RRP" program. The IOER and RRP work in tandem to keep the fed-funds rate inside the range. (katy.burne@wsj.com)

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

December 14, 2016 14:58 ET (19:58 GMT)
   COfed : Federal Reserve Board   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | e211 : Government Budget/Taxation | ecat : Economic News | gvbod : Government Bodies | gvote : Elections | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | namt : All Market Talk | ndjmt : Dow Jones Market Talk | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | nfiac : Fixed Income Asset Class News | nfxacb : Forex Asset Class Basic News | nfxacp : Forex Asset Class Premium News | nfxmt : Foreign Exchange Market Talk | e12 : Monetary Policy | e21 : Government Finance | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument DJDN000020161214ecce0036q  



 HDAsia Credit Weakens on Fed Hawkishness; 2 Issuers Brave Market -- Market Talk   WC208 words   PD15 December 2016   ET05:17   SNDow Jones Institutional News   SCDJDN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright © 2016, Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 
   LP0417 GMT [Dow Jones] Asian credits trade wider Thursday after the U.S. Federal Reserve overnight indicated it would raise interest rates faster than expected in 2017. Spreads of Asian investment-grade U.S. dollar bonds over U.S. Treasurys widened by 5-6 basis points with long-dated dollar sovereign bonds issued by Indonesia and the Philippines as well as oil names seeing selling pressure, according to a bond trader. The Fed, as widely expected, announced a 25 basis point interest-rate increase overnight, but it surprised the market by signaling three interest rate hike in 2017, up from the previous estimate of two increases. "The more hawkish tone with respect to future hikes has affected market sentiment," the trader says. Despite the weak market sentiment, two issuers are marketing dollar bond deals Thursday.
   TD Chinese property developer China Vanke is marketing three-year bonds to yield around 4.25% while Xuzhou Hi-Tech Industrial Development, a Chinese local government financial vehicle, is marketing three-year bonds to yield around 6.25%. They aim to price their deals later today. (carol.chan@wsj.com)

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

December 14, 2016 23:17 ET (04:17 GMT)
   COasiacd : Industrial & Commercial Bank of China (Thai) PCL | fed : Federal Reserve Board | icbk : Industrial and Commercial Bank of China Ltd   INi814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | gvbod : Government Bodies | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m131 : Money Markets | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | m15 : Derivative Securities | msovd : Sovereign Debt Derivatives | namt : All Market Talk | ndjmt : Dow Jones Market Talk | nfiac : Fixed Income Asset Class News | nfxacb : Forex Asset Class Basic News | nfxacp : Forex Asset Class Premium News | e12 : Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument DJDN000020161215eccf000fe  



 SEMarkets   HDSelloff of U.S. Government Bonds Eases; Bonds sold off Wednesday afternoon and into Thursday after the  Federal Reserve  raised interest rates   BYBy Sam Goldfarb    WC402 words   PD16 December 2016   ET16:28   SNThe Wall Street Journal Online   SCWSJO   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
   LPSelling of U.S. government bonds slowed to a modest pace Friday, pushing yields slightly higher after two days of sharp increases.

In recent trading, the yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note was 2.588%, according to Tradeweb, compared with 2.580% Thursday. Yields rise when bond prices fall.
   TDBonds sold off Wednesday afternoon and into Thursday after the Federal Reserve raised interest rates for the second time since 2006 and signaled a slightly faster pace of tightening next year than it had previously anticipated.

Fed officials justified the moves by pointing to an improving U.S. economy. But Fed Chairwoman Janet Yellen acknowledged that the central bank is also monitoring U.S. fiscal policy, which is widely expected to become more expansive next year as President-elect Donald Trump assumes office.

The yield on the 10-year note, which was 2.446% right before Fed's policy announcement, climbed as high as 2.628% Thursday.

Still, there were signs Thursday that the selling was orderly, reflecting a rational response to the possibility of more rate increases next year rather than "just an outright market collapse," said John Canavan, market analyst at Stone and McCarthy Research Associates.

Bonds now have a chance to make "a little bit of a quiet correction" though any pause in the selloff wouldn't "necessarily tell us anything about where we're at going forward," he added.

After reaching record lows in July, bond yields began to rise in the late summer and early fall due in part to a run of solid economic data and signs that inflation might be starting to creep up after years of remaining stubbornly below the Fed's 2% target.

Inflation chips away bonds' fixed returns over time and is a big threat to long-term government bonds.

Yields then soared after the Nov. 8 election, reflecting bets that Mr. Trump and a Republican-controlled Congress will increase the budget deficit by cutting taxes and boosting spending on defense and infrastructure.

Adopting expansive fiscal policies could diminish the value of outstanding government debt by adding to the supply of bonds. It could also spur growth and inflation, prompting the Fed to quicken its pace of interest-rate increases.

Write to Sam Goldfarb at sam.goldfarb@wsj.com 
   COfed : Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System   NSmntdbt : National Government Debt/Bond Markets | e12 : Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPCG/FDL | G/FED | N/BON | N/CMR | N/DJN | N/EMP | N/GEN | N/GENI | N/IEN | N/MKT | N/PLT | N/SDT | N/WER | R/NME | R/US   IPD10-YEAR NOTE | 10-YEAR TREASURY NOTE | BOND PRICES | BONDS | FED CHAIRMAN | FED CHAIRWOMAN | FEDERAL RESERVE | U.S. GOVERNMENT BONDS | Janet Yellen | Trump, Donald | SYND | WSJ-PRO-WSJ.com | Credit Markets | WSJ.com   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument WSJO000020161216eccg005h9  



 SEMarkets   HDGold Declines on Prospect of Rate Increases; The  Federal Reserve 's plan to speed up rate rises put pressure on gold prices.   BYBy Ed Ballard and Stephanie Yang    WC415 words   PD15 December 2016   ET16:43   SNThe Wall Street Journal Online   SCWSJO   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
   LPGold dropped to a 10-month low on Thursday, extending a steep decline as markets adjusted to the prospect of more interest-rate increases next year in the wake of the U.S. Federal Reserve's meeting.

Futures for February delivery were recently down 3% at $11.29.40 a troy ounce, trading at the lowest level since Feb. 3 in the biggest one day drop since Nov. 11.
   TDOn Wednesday, the Fed raised the federal funds target rate by a quarter percentage point, to between 0.50% and 0.75%. While the market largely expected the central bank to raise rates at the December meeting, officials also indicated plans to raise rates three times in 2017, more than previously expected.

"At this point, I don't see what's going to make gold go higher," said Bob Haberkorn, senior market strategist at RJO Futures. "The story this entire year has always turned back to the Fed."

Higher interest rates increase the returns of yield-bearing assets and tend to damp demand for gold, which pays its holders nothing. Kit Juckes, a macro strategist at Société Générale, Thursday noted that gold's decline in recent weeks has closely tracked a pickup in the inflation-adjusted yield of U.S. Treasurys.

The U.S. dollar also put pressure on gold, as the currency continued to gain on Thursday after hitting a 14-year high following the Fed meeting. On Thursday, the WSJ Dollar Index was up 0.9% at 93.19.

David Govett, head of precious metals at brokerage Marex Spectron, said continued strength in the U.S. dollar will likely continue to weigh on gold into 2017. "As long as the dollar stays firm then this will be the way of the world for the time being," he wrote in a note to clients.

A rising dollar is bearish for gold, as the metal is priced in the U.S. currency and becomes more expensive for foreign buyers when the dollar appreciates.

Investors withdrew money from exchange-traded funds that buy gold for the 25th consecutive day Wednesday. Outflows accounted for nearly 22 tons of gold, the most for a single session since July 2013, noted analysts at Commerzbank.

Write to Ed Ballard at ed.ballard@wsj.com and Stephanie Yang at stephanie.yang@wsj.com
   COfed : Federal Reserve Board   INi2112 : Silver Ore Mining | i22 : Primary Metals | i22472 : Precious Metals | i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i224 : Non-ferrous Metals | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying   NSm1421 : Gold Markets | e12 : Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gvbod : Government Bodies | m14 : Commodity Markets | m142 : Metals Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mpcsmt : Precious Metals Markets | mplat : Platinum/Palladium Markets | msilv : Silver Markets | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter   REnamz : North America | usa : United States | usny : New York State | use : Northeast U.S.   IPC1090 | 61035 | 61045 | 82270 | 82333 | G/FED | G/TRE | I/GLD | I/PPM | N/CMD | N/CMR | N/DJCS | N/DJN | N/EMP | N/EMR | N/GENI | N/GPC | N/IEN | N/MET | N/MKT | N/NRG | N/OSCM | N/OSFF | N/OSFR | N/OSME | N/OSOV | N/PCS | N/PLM | N/SVR | N/WER | O/DJCS | R/NME | R/NY | R/US   IPDDOLLAR | GOLD | GOLD PRICE | INTEREST RATES | PRECIOUS METALS | RATE INCREASES | SILVER | Govett, David | Haberkorn, Bob | SYND | WSJ-PRO-WSJ.com | WSJ.com   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument WSJO000020161215eccf003e9  



 HDBuoyant Markets Pose New Challenges for Fed   BYBy Harriet Torry      WC830 words   PD14 December 2016   SNThe Wall Street Journal (Asia Edition)   SCAWSJ   PGA1   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
   LPWASHINGTON -- A rallying stock market, rising bond yields and the return of inflationary pressures are creating new challenges for the Federal Reserve leading up to its policy announcement Wednesday, with investors already looking past an expected increase in the benchmark interest rate and focusing on any signals about a more-aggressive stance in the months and years ahead.

Ahead of the Fed's announcement on interest rates officials have largely maintained a cautious tone even as joblessness is at a nine-year low and economic growth is accelerating. But many Fed watchers see the prospect of tax cuts and fiscal spending under Donald Trump, as well as rising oil prices and inflation expectations, pointing to an accelerated pace of rate increases.
   TDInvestors expect the Fed to decide at the meeting to raise rates by a quarter percentage point to a range between 0.50% and 0.75%.

The outlook has shifted since the last time Fed officials issued economic forecasts in September. That time, they cut their outlook for growth and inflation this year, and predicted slightly higher unemployment by the end of 2016. The unemployment rate has since fallen to 4.6% -- the lowest level since 2007 -- and economic growth accelerated in the third quarter.

Central-bank policy makers are nonetheless likely to signal Wednesday they expect to proceed cautiously before raising rates again, despite the drastically different political backdrop and market environment since they last issued economic projections in September.

"As a central banker, I think it's very important to be patient and let events and policies unfold, and not attempt to prejudge them . . . because you know they may unfold in a way that we can't predict," Dallas Fed President Robert Kaplan said in a recent interview with The Wall Street Journal.

The course of interest-rate increases is perhaps the pivotal factor for many investors in assessing the prospects for prices across the stock, bond, commodity and currency markets. Many money managers say an upsurge of inflation throughout 2017 ranks among the top risks to a continued advance in U.S. stocks, where the Dow industrials are on the verge of surpassing 20000 for the first time. Many portfolio managers and strategists are basing predictions for rising U.S. stock indexes on the "gradual pace" of increases that Fed officials have often nodded to.

Oil prices climbed again intraday on Tuesday, after more oil-producing nations agreed to cut production, with U.S. crude futures gaining $0.24, or 0.45%, to $52.80 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. On the bond market, a gauge of inflation expectations rose to the highest level in more than two years and edged above the Fed's 2% inflation target.

The 10-year break-even rate -- the yield premium that investors demand to hold 10-year Treasury notes relative to 10-year Treasury inflation-protected securities -- reached 2.01 percentage points, its highest level since September 2014. That suggests investors, after years of skepticism, finally believe that inflation will run at around the Fed's 2% target over the next decade.

Stocks rose in midday trading Tuesday, with the Dow Jones Industrial Average climbing 84 points, or 0.4%, to 19881 and the S&P 500 adding 0.6% to 2269. The Dow closed Monday at 19796.43

Analysts at money manager BlackRock Inc. recommended buying TIPS in a report Monday, saying they expect the break-even rate to continue rising.

The yield on the 10-year Treasury note settled Monday at 2.478%, up from 1.867% on Election Day and its record low of 1.366% on July 8. The yield on the 10-year note Tuesday was off slightly at 2.471%.

Donald Trump's election as president has boosted expectations that the next administration will cut taxes and increase spending. That has big implications for the Fed. The fiscal stimulus Mr. Trump has proposed could boost demand and cause inflation to accelerate.

Expectations of higher inflation have firmed further after the agreement by oil-producing nations boosted crude prices -- an increase that could lead to higher consumer prices.

"Markets are indeed running on the expectation that the full package Trump has promised will come through," said Gregory Daco, chief U.S. economist at Oxford Economics.

Economists surveyed by The Wall Street Journal last week expected four quarter-percentage-point rate increases between now and the end of 2017. Some cited rising inflation, while others said Mr. Trump's tax and spending plans might boost price pressures or saw Mr. Trump's potential Fed nominees advocating a more hawkish path for interest rates.

But bank officials have made clear in recent public comments they will wait to see how policies develop under Mr. Trump and a Republican-controlled Congress before the Fed rethinks policy.

---

Min Zeng and Christopher Whittall contributed to this article.

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   COfed : Federal Reserve Board   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | gvbod : Government Bodies | npag : Page-One Stories | e12 : Monetary Policy | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | ncat : Content Types   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCFED | USG | NND | PGO | TPT   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument AWSJ000020161213ecce0001j  



 SEMarkets   HDInterest Rates Are Rising. Here's Why Your Deposit Rate Isn't; Banks haven't passed on to depositors much of the benefit of last year's Fed rate increase and aren't likely to give savers much this time around   BYBy Peter Rudegeair    WC788 words   PD14 December 2016   ET23:41   SNThe Wall Street Journal Online   SCWSJO   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
   LPMany borrowers will have to pay more for loans now that the Federal Reserve has raised short-term interest rates. What about bank customers hoping to get paid more for deposits? Keep waiting.

Banks haven't passed on to depositors much of the benefit of last year's Fed rate increase and aren't likely to give savers much this time around. The Fed on Wednesday said that it would increase its short-term rate target by a quarter of a percentage point, bringing it to a range of 0.50 to 0.75 percentage point.
   TDTrue, most banks are quick to raise their "prime" borrowing rate when the federal-funds target moves higher. That immediately bolsters bank profits by lifting the percentage rate they charge for credit cards, home-equity lines of credit and other types of loans.

Bank of America Corp., J.P. Morgan Chase & Co., U.S. Bancorp and others announced boosts to their prime rates on Wednesday. The Wall Street Journal's prime rate, based on a survey of the largest U.S. banks, increased to 3.75% effective Thursday.

But banks generally don't rush to increase deposit rates, allowing them to pocket the higher spread, or difference, between what they earn on loans and what they pay to customers. Deposit rates especially lag behind in the first year of a period of rising rates, data provided by Bankrate.com showed last year.

The level of deposit rates tends to depend on the Fed's target rate. So while longer-term bond yields have increased significantly of late—the yield on the 10-year U.S. Treasury has jumped a full percentage point in just five months—that doesn't affect what bank-account holders get paid for short-term deposits.

At Bank of America, one of the largest deposit takers in the U.S., Chief Executive Brian Moynihan said at an investor conference last week that the Fed's latest rate increase would likely play out the same way as last year's. In other words, deposit rates won't move up in lockstep with the Fed. Mr. Moynihan said that could change for future rate increases, however.

At many large banks, the amount savers received in interest has barely budged since last year. Bank of America paid an average of 0.08% interest on U.S. deposits during the third quarter, according to its financial filings. That is unchanged from the same quarter of 2015, which preceded the Fed's decision to raise short-term interest rates for the first time in a decade.

Online banks tend to be more generous, but several have reported paying lower rates on interest-bearing deposits. Ally Financial Inc., which held $75.7 billion of deposits, said its average retail deposit rate fell to 1.1% in the third quarter of 2016, from 1.14% in the same period a year earlier.

Banks do pay more to customers who hold certificates of deposits, which lock up savers' money for a defined period. But even those rates have increased only slightly: The average interest rate on a one-year CD is 0.31%, only 0.04 percentage point above where it was a year ago, according to data from Bankrate.com.

CD rates haven't only lagged behind the increase in the fed-funds rate, but also the sharper rise in yields on short- and medium-term U.S. government debt. This means banks could park customer money in safe securities and still earn a higher spread than they did last year.

For instance, the yield on the one-year Treasury rose five times as much as average CD rates over the past year.

Of course, investors could also buy Treasurys. But deposits at the biggest banks tend to be quite sticky, due in part to the banks' huge branch networks, mobile apps and heavy marketing budgets.

And, overall, consumers have found it hard to part with deposits. Despite years of rising stock markets and low rates that made deposits the functional equivalent of sticking money under the mattress, domestic U.S. deposits rose about 19% in the three years ended Sept. 30 to about $11.5 trillion.

Write to Peter Rudegeair at Peter.Rudegeair@wsj.com

Read More

* Live Analysis of the Fed \b Interest-Rate\b0  Decision

* When the Fed Raises Rates, These Traders Make It Happen

* Fed Raises Rates for First Time in 2016, Anticipates 3 Increases in 2017
   COncnbco : Bank of America Corporation | fed : Federal Reserve Board   INi814 : Banking | ifinal : Financial Services | i81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | iibnk : Integrated Banks   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | eprime : Prime Rate | gcat : Political/General News | gvbod : Government Bodies | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPCALLY | BAC | G/FDL | G/FED | G/TRE | I/BKS | I/BNK | JPM | M/FCL | N/CBK | N/CMR | N/DJN | N/EMP | N/GENI | N/IEN | N/PRT | N/WER | R/NME | R/US | USB   IPDBANK OF AMERICA | BANKS | CENTRAL BANKS | DEPOSIT RATES | DEPOSITS | FEDERAL FUNDS RATE | FEDERAL RESERVE | INTEREST RATES | RATE INCREASE | SAVERS | SAVINGS | Moynihan, Brian | SYND | WSJ-PRO-WSJ.com | Markets Main | WSJ.com   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument WSJO000020161214ecce0099g  



 HDTREASURIES-Yields advance on Fed rate hike outlook   WC524 words   PD15 December 2016   ET16:20   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2016 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved. 
   LP* U.S. CPI data show tame inflation

* Jobless claims, Philly Fed business index positive overall
   TD* Fed fund futures pricing gradual rate hike pace (Adds comments, byline, updates prices,)

By Gertrude Chavez-Dreyfuss

NEW YORK, Dec 15 (Reuters) - U.S. Treasury yields rose broadly on Thursday, boosted by the prospect of more interest rate increases by the Federal Reserve next year, although those on long-dated bonds came off their highs after fairly tame consumer inflation data for November.

Benchmark U.S. 10-year yields hit more than two-year highs, while yields on U.S. two-year notes touched more than seven-year peaks, bolstered by the outlook for higher interest rates.

The belly of the yield curve also climbed to multi-year peaks, with U.S. five-year notes rising to their strongest level in 5-1/2 years and seven-year notes hitting almost three-year highs.

The Fed's policy-setting committee, which raised rates by a quarter point on Wednesday, said it anticipates three more rate increases in 2017, a jump from the September meeting when it said it expected just two hikes.

"It is the Fed's updated projections for three rate hikes next year, revised from two before, followed by three more rate hikes in 2018, that will mark the actual beginning of normalization," said Lena Komileva, chief economist at G+ Economics in London,

Yields, however, came off their highs after the release of soft U.S. inflation data.

The consumer price index rose just 0.2 percent last month, after advancing 0.4 percent in October. Gasoline price increases slowed and food costs remained soft during the month, pulling the index lower.

"Core inflation remains tame ... although the data still show at least modest acceleration on a trend basis," said Jim O'Sullivan, chief U.S. economist at High Frequency Economics in New York.

That said, other pieces of data such as initial jobless claims and the Philadelphia Federal Reserve business index were solid overall, but had little impact on yields.

The U.S. data on Thursday backed the Fed's hawkish stance on the economy and rates.

Fed funds futures are showing a gradual rate hike path so far, with about a 40 percent chance for a quarter-point tightening by the March meeting, and about a 50 percent probability for a May rate increase.

In mid-morning trading, benchmark 10-year Treasury prices were down 12/32, yielding 2.567 percent, up 4 basis points from levels late on Wednesday.

U.S. 30-year bond yields were yielding 3.149 percent, up slightly from the previous session.

U.S. two-year notes yielded 1.2636 percent, up almost 3 basis points from Wednesday.

The yield curve was also flatter, with the spread between the U.S. 5-year notes and 30-year bonds at around 107 basis points, a nod to the additional rate hikes forecasted by the Fed. That's the flattest curve since early September. (Reporting by Gertrude Chavez-Dreyfuss; Editing by Chizu Nomiyama and Paul Simao) 
   RFReleased: 2016-12-15T16:20:41.000Z   COfed : Federal Reserve Board   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | ejobcl : Jobless Claims | mntdbt : National Government Debt/Bond Markets | ecat : Economic News | ecpin : Consumer Price Index | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1103 : Inflation/Prices | e1116 : Employment/Unemployment | e12 : Monetary Policy | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCSERVICE:C | SERVICE:D | SERVICE:E | SERVICE:M | SERVICE:O | SERVICE:U | SERVICE:MTL | SERVICE:GRO | SERVICE:SOF | SERVICE:OIL | SERVICE:AUF | SERVICE:CANT | SERVICE:J | SERVICE:UKI | SERVICE:Z | SERVICE:RNP | SERVICE:DNP | SERVICE:PTD | SERVICE:RBN | LANG:en | OEC | DBT | DRV | MMT | MNEY | GVD | INT | US | MEVN | INFL | MCE | ECON | CEN | AMERS | NAMER | USA | BACT   IPDBusiness | Economy | US | Market Reports | Reports | USA-BONDS/ (UPDATE 1) | USA | BONDS | (UPDATE 1)   PUBThomson Reuters (Markets) LLC   ANDocument LBA0000020161215eccf00rxr  



 HDTREASURIES-U.S. shorter-dated yields hit multi-year highs after rate projections raised   WC478 words   PD14 December 2016   ET21:24   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2016 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved. 
   LP(Updates to include analysts quotes, more data)

By Dion Rabouin
   TDDec 14 (Reuters) - Shorter-dated U.S. Treasury yields rose to their highest point in more than five years after the release of the Federal Open Market Committee's rate decision and statement on Wednesday in which the Fed announced a 0.25 percentage point increase to U.S. overnight interest rates.

Yields on two-year Treasury notes rose to their highest level since August 2009, while three-year yields hit their highest since May 2010 and five-year yields rose to their highest since May 2011.

The FOMC also said it was expecting to raise rates three times in 2017, an increase from the Federal Reserve's September meeting at which the committee said it foresaw two increases.

The increase by 25 basis points to 0.5-0.75 percent was largely expected but the increase of the Fed's so-called dot plot caught the market slightly off-guard, analysts said, leading to the selloff in shorter-dated maturities.

"That was a little bit more hawkish than we expected and it looks like the market is taking that in stride as well," said Collin Martin, director, fixed income at the Schwab Center for Financial Research in New York. "It's a little bit more bearish for the Treasury market than we had anticipated and we're seeing that with yields across the curve up a few basis points."

Shorter-dated maturities are the most vulnerable to action by the Federal Reserve as an increase in U.S. overnight interest rates reduces their value most immediately.

The FOMC's longer term projections were little changed, leading to less selling of Treasuries with longer-dated maturities.

"Changing the near-term means you are more certain that you will have a little more rope to go," said Aaron Kohli, interest rate strategist at BMO Capital Markets in New York. "They didn't move any of the longer-term stuff so maybe that confidence isn't supremely high but certainly it's improving for them."

U.S. two-year Treasury notes were last down 4/32 in price to yield 1.238 percent, an increase of more than 8 basis points from its late Tuesday levels. The three-year note dropped 7/32 in price to yield 1.527 percent, a gain of around 9 basis points. The five-year note fell 13/32 in price for a 1.984-percent yield, 9 points higher.

Benchmark 10-year Treasury notes dropped 10/32 in price to yield 2.499 percent, a little more than 4 basis points above its late Tuesday mark and the highest since September 2014. (Reporting by Dion Rabouin; Editing by James Dalgleish and Bill Trott) 
   RFReleased: 2016-12-14T21:24:37.000Z   COfed : Federal Reserve Board   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | mntdbt : National Government Debt/Bond Markets | ecat : Economic News | e12 : Monetary Policy | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCSERVICE:C | SERVICE:D | SERVICE:E | SERVICE:M | SERVICE:O | SERVICE:U | SERVICE:MTL | SERVICE:GRO | SERVICE:SOF | SERVICE:OIL | SERVICE:AUF | SERVICE:CANT | SERVICE:J | SERVICE:NAT | SERVICE:UKI | SERVICE:Z | SERVICE:RNP | SERVICE:DNP | SERVICE:PTD | SERVICE:RBN | LANG:en | f | DBT | DRV | MMT | MNEY | GVD | INT | US | FED | MEVN | CEN | MCE | ECON | AMERS | NAMER | USA | BACT | OEC   IPDBusiness | Economy | US | Market Reports | Reports | USA-BONDS/ (UPDATE 1) | USA | BONDS | (UPDATE 1)   PUBThomson Reuters (Markets) LLC   ANDocument LBA0000020161214ecce012qw  



 HDU.S. Fed raises rates for second time since Great Recession   WC2,528 words   PD15 December 2016   ET03:24   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2016 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved. 
   LP(Reuters) - The U.S. Federal Reserve raised interest rates by a quarter point on Wednesday and signaled a faster pace of increases in 2017 as the Trump administration takes over with promises to boost growth through tax cuts, spending and deregulation.

KEY POINTS:* FOMC forecasts suggest 3 hikes in 2017 vs 2 from September projections
   TD* Longer-run FOMC target rate seen around 3.0 pct vs 2.9 pct in September projections

* FOMC statement: "Market-based measures of inflation compensation have moved up considerably but still are low"

* FOMC statement: "The stance of monetary policy remains accommodative, thereby supporting some further strengthening in labor market conditions and a return to 2 percent inflation"

* Vote was unanimous

COMMENTS:

MINH TRANG, SENIOR FOREIGN CURRENCY TRADERS, SILICON VALLEY BANK, SANTA CLARA, CALIFORNIA:

"She basically came out to support the rate hike today. She is also giving a guideline for 2017 with possibly three rate hikes. This is a vote of confidence on the economy that's strong enough to support another rate hike. It paints a supportive picture for dollar. The dollar has been strong for the last 30 days. That's been the dominant move. Today that trend continues. The press conference is tempering the initial enthusiasm from the statement. More fiscal stimulus and more rate increases will create a stronger dollar but we are looking pretty far ahead. You are seeing more of a weakness against the yen at this point. I wouldn't be surprised to hear about the parity chant again on the euro with anti-establishment wind blowing there."

LUKE BARTHOLOMEW, INVESTMENT MANAGER, ABERDEEN ASSET MANAGEMENT, LONDON:

"The Fed has finally delivered a second rate hike a year after the last one in this cycle.

"What's more interesting is their guidance on where interest rates might go from here. This time last year the Fed turned out to be wildly off mark in what they were predicting. But this year there are reasons for thinking the Fed's guidance is more realistic. The economy is in a more advanced stage of recovery and market pricing reflects this. We can expect rates to slowly climb through next year and beyond."

"Trump is the big known unknown. The Fed is currently agnostic about the impact his policies will have. But that's partly because neither they, or any of the rest of us, knows what they'll be. If there is a large fiscal stimulus then this will almost certainly create inflationary pressure that the Fed will have to fight by raising rates. It's far from clear how big any stimulus will be and what impact it will have. The Fed is as much in the dark about this as the rest of us."

JASON WARE, CHIEF INVESTMENT OFFICER, ALBION FINANCIAL GROUP, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH:

"Last time we had a hike a year ago what it meant for markets was volatility and downside. Is the same thing going to happen this time? Nobody knows for sure, but I think what we can take from this is that the market is taking it in stride, we're not seeing a big selloff, not too big of a deviation from what was happening in the market before they made the announcement. Looking at it on a one-day basis, kind of the reaction you'd expect: bit of volatility in the equity market, kind of a flat reaction, bond prices down, yields up, dollar up a little bit, gold down a little bit."

"What was perhaps a bit of a surprise was the forward guidance on the dot plot. They were expecting two prior to this, they're now saying three expected for 2017, so maybe that could be read as a bit more of a hawkish tilt on the Fed policy looking out over the next 12 months.

"If you got back a year ago they were expecting three or four hikes in 2016. We got one. Reading too much into that I think would be kind of a fool's errand. But the market reaction right now is, hey maybe they're a touch more hawkish than we expected going into the meeting."

DAVID SCHIEGOLEIT, MANAGING DIRECTOR, U.S. BANK PRIVATE CLIENT RESERVE, LOS ANGELES:

"The initial reaction is it was pretty much as expected across the board, even the statement. The only change we really saw was from September they have upped their prediction for the number of hikes from two to three. That is really not that big of a surprise, the market did a good job getting ahead of the curve on that. So we will wait and see what comes out in the press conference but just from the statement there wasn't a lot of surprises."

"Whenever we get these policy statements in the minutes afterwards we always see a lot of volatility (in stocks) so I don't read too much into it. However, I'm beginning to think the market might be looking for an excuse to take some profits. We've had such a strong run here for the past couple of weeks that any excuse to take some money off the board might hold a little bit more water than usual. That could be what we see here and heading into the close."

The economic projections don't "surprise me especially, on the employment side since we have had some pretty decent numbers here for the past several quarters. So them coming down on that doesn't surprise me a whole lot, that just tells me they feel in terms of the employment number they are fairly positioned and a little bit ahead of the curve. This statement, everything I have read so far is almost a yawner, it really is very much in line across the board with what the market seemed to be expecting and what we were expecting. So even their move from two to three (rate hikes) is not much of a surprise."

FRANCES DONALD, SENIOR ECONOMIST, MANULIFE ASSET MANAGEMENT IN BOSTON:

"All elements we've received so far from the Fed including the policy statement, the forecasts, the dot plot tilt hawkish. They imply that the Fed sees more room to run with interest rates higher given the Trump election."

    "Yellen's challenge will be to tilt the press conference more dovish in order for today to be seen as a balanced statement. The U.S. dollar is strengthening aggressively and bond yields are rising more sharply than would be justified by interest rate hikes alone. If the fed appears overly hawkish it will restrain growth in 2017 which is problematic given that the impact of Trump policies is more likely to be in 2018."

"It appears the Federal Reserve is removing the punch bowl for equities more quickly than we initially thought. How equities end the day will depend heavily on the tone Janet Yellen uses in her press conference. How she explains this hike, whether its dovish or hawkish, will matter considerably to markets for 2017."

AARON KOHLI, INTEREST RATE STRATEGIST, BMO CAPITAL MARKETS, NEW YORK:

"It's a little bit more hawkish than expected. They moved up the dots a little bit more aggressively in the near-term and their near-term projections for GDP. There was a dot plot change that was a little more aggressive than anticipated. Changing the near-term means you are more certain that you will have a little more rope to go, they didn't move any of the longer-term stuff so maybe that confidence isn't supremely high, but certainly it's improving for them. The real question is whether this is caused by the continuation of economic growth or whether it's really the result of any new data we've received, specifically on fiscal stimulus. They didn't mention the fiscal stimulus but typically their aggressiveness does indicate that there's a little more confidence that they can get away with three hikes next year."

DOUG DUNCAN, CHIEF ECONOMIST, FANNIE MAE, WASHINGTON:

"They haven't overreacted to the move in rate structure since the election. They are taking a wait-and-see attitude. They raised the target rate as expected. I don't see any changes in their central tendency forecasts. At least right now, nothing has changed in the economy except for expectations. We are going to see bigger pullback in refinancing even if mortgage rates stay at the current levels. I expect home sales to be dented in the early part of the year with rates moving up so much as quickly. I think the homebuilders will keep going since there's still a shortage in supply even if demand slows from these higher rates.  

"If we see another 40 basis point increase in mortgage rates, the drag on housing activity would be significant. It remains to be seen how (fiscal) policies would affect economic activity in the second of the year. It would matter in what order these policies would be enacted. This is the third longest economic expansion on record but it's getting long in the tooth."

HEIDI LEARNER, CHIEF ECONOMIST, SAVILLS STUDLEY, NEW YORK:

"It's not too exciting. The only real thing is that they are basically pricing in an extra rate hike in 2017.

"They didn't take out the use of 'gradual.' So that suggests that even if things do start to indicate that there are some inflationary pressures, it's unlikely that they're going to try to get ahead of the curve. There'll be plenty of time for raising rates as needed.

"My question is what changed if they didn't change their GDP, employment or inflation forecasts? Their inflation is completely unchanged. GDP they increased by 0.1 percent for 2017, unemployment they brought down by one-tenth, so to me that's not enough to warrant an extra hike. It could just be again, this is the composition of the FOMC's members own views, so perhaps more of them are indicating the risks of inflation are there. But it's a little bit surprising without the corresponding change to their forecasts."

SHAHAB JALINOOS, GLOBAL HEAD OF FX STRATEGY, CREDIT SUISSE, NEW YORK:

"Not entirely surprising I would say. It's an argument for modest dollar strength, but not necessarily in and of itself going to change the bigger picture. Obviously the market now still has to listen to what Chair Yellen says. Simply looking at the statement, they make it very clear that they think the labor market conditions are going to strengthen further, that the economy will continue to expand, at what they call a moderate pace."

"If you throw into the mix the possibility of Trumponomics, clearly that's another aspect to consider, but it's not something that has been referenced specifically in the text of the statement. The game was higher U.S. yields, which has been in place for some time, a higher dollar against core defensive currencies like the euro and the yen, and that trend persists. So in that sense, the game hasn't changed."

COLLIN MARTIN, DIRECTOR, FIXED INCOME, SCHWAB CENTER FOR FINANCIAL RESEARCH, NEW YORK:

"In a nutshell the decision to hike rates was expected by us and expected by the market, so no surprise there. Very few changes to the economic projections, which we also expected. It seems like they'll probably wait to get new information from the new administration to get more details before they make any changes to their economic projections. So no surprise there."

"We were a little bit surprised about the increase in the dots. That was a little bit more hawkish than we expected, and it looks like the market is taking that in stride as well. It's a little bit more bearish for the Treasury market than we had anticipated and we're seeing that with yields across the curve up a few basis points. I guess in a nutshell this is a little bit more bearish for the bond market than what we had expected."

DAVID JOY, CHIEF MARKET STRATEGIST, AMERIPRISE FINANCIAL, BOSTON:

"It was little more hawkish than the market was expecting although the initial reaction to stocks was up. The Fed went to three rate hikes next year versus two, that is consistent with what we are expecting for next year, but it probably comes as little surprise to the market place. You see it reflected in fixed income now, the 2-year (Treasury yield) is up to 1.21 percent and the 10-year is at 2.49 percent so bonds are selling off in response to this, not yet so for stocks but stocks may turn negative on this news."

The FOMC's economic projections are "moving in our direction, we are looking for as much 2.5 (percent GDP growth) next year, they are at 2.1 (percent), it is up a little bit. I suspect they are taking a little bit of a wait-and—see approach to some changes from the new administration than we are in baking some things in. Nevertheless this is in recognition that the economy is already behaving better than it was when they met in September or they met in November, so they are kind of catching up a little bit. If they didn't acknowledge that they risked maybe falling behind the curve a little bit so I applaud them for moving in this direction. Especially in light of some commentators saying they would be very dovish and lay low and stay out of the new President-elect's way. They chose to talk about and do exactly what they say the data is telling them."

TOM PORCELLI, CHIEF U.S. ECONOMIST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS, NEW YORK:

"It's critical to understand why the dots shifted, if you look at the average of the dots they moved very little. In 2017 they moved 6 basis points. Basically what happened is someone in the lower tier of the dot plot shifted higher, and that's basically what moved the median. It's important to note that the average shifted very modestly. It doesn't indicate that they are looking to ramp it up. Someone who had thought that they are going to have very middling hikes over the coming year has just shifted and that's basically the bottom line."

MARKET REACTION:

STOCKS: S&P 500 now about 0.75 pct lower; Dow down about 0.6 pct; Russell 2k

BONDS: 2- and 10-year Treasury yields move higher; 2-year yield at 1.26 pct to the highest since August 2009; 9 basis point rise the largest since Feb 2015; 10s just above 2.53 pct

RATE FUTURES: December 2017 Fed fund futures fall 10 basis points to the lowest since January

FOREX: The dollar index rises to near the highest in 13 years, led by gains against the euro and Japanese yen

(Americas Economics and Markets Desk; +1-646 223-6300) 
   RFReleased: 2016-12-15T02:24:16.000Z   COfed : Federal Reserve Board | silivb : Silicon Valley Bank | silvbs : SVB Financial Group   INi814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | ntop : Top Wire News | e1101 : Economic Growth | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | redit : Selection of Top Stories/Trends/Analysis   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCSERVICE:OUSBSM | SERVICE:OCABSM | SERVICE:ORTAO | SERVICE:OUSTPM | SERVICE:RTRFLN | SERVICE:OUS12 | SERVICE:OCATPM | LANG:en-US | a | f | i | BACT | CEN | DBT | ECI | ECON | FED | FRX | FUND | GVD | INVB | INVM | INVU | MCE | MMT | NEWS1 | REP | STX | USA   IPDBusiness | Economy | Top News | US | Bangalore | India | US-USA-ECONOMY-INSTANT | USA | INSTANT   PUBThomson Reuters (Markets) LLC   ANDocument LBA0000020161214ecce011f9  



 HDINSTANT VIEW 5-US Fed raises rates for second time since Great Recession   WC2,375 words   PD14 December 2016   ET20:45   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2016 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved. 
   LPDec 14 (Reuters) - The U.S. Federal Reserve raised interest rates by a quarter point on Wednesday and signaled a faster pace of increases in 2017 as the Trump administration takes over with promises to boost growth through tax cuts, spending and deregulation.

STORY: TEXT:
   TDTable of forecasts:

KEY POINTS: * FOMC forecasts suggest 3 hikes in 2017 vs 2 from September projections * Longer-run FOMC target rate seen around 3.0 pct vs 2.9 pct in September projections * FOMC statement: "Market-based measures of inflation compensation have moved up considerably but still are low" * FOMC statement: "The stance of monetary policy remains accommodative, thereby supporting some further strengthening in labor market conditions and a return to 2 percent inflation" * Vote was unanimous

COMMENTS: LUKE BARTHOLOMEW, INVESTMENT MANAGER, ABERDEEN ASSET MANAGEMENT, LONDON:

"The Fed has finally delivered a second rate hike a year after the last one in this cycle.

"What's more interesting is their guidance on where interest rates might go from here. This time last year the Fed turned out to be wildly off mark in what they were predicting. But this year there are reasons for thinking the Fed's guidance is more realistic. The economy is in a more advanced stage of recovery and market pricing reflects this. We can expect rates to slowly climb through next year and beyond."

"Trump is the big known unknown. The Fed is currently agnostic about the impact his policies will have. But that's partly because neither they, or any of the rest of us, knows what they'll be. If there is a large fiscal stimulus then this will almost certainly create inflationary pressure that the Fed will have to fight by raising rates. It's far from clear how big any stimulus will be and what impact it will have. The Fed is as much in the dark about this as the rest of us."

JASON WARE, CHIEF INVESTMENT OFFICER, ALBION FINANCIAL GROUP, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH:

"Last time we had a hike a year ago what it meant for markets was volatility and downside. Is the same thing going to happen this time? Nobody knows for sure, but I think what we can take from this is that the market is taking it in stride, we're not seeing a big selloff, not too big of a deviation from what was happening in the market before they made the announcement. Looking at it on a one-day basis, kind of the reaction you'd expect: bit of volatility in the equity market, kind of a flat reaction, bond prices down, yields up, dollar up a little bit, gold down a little bit."

"What was perhaps a bit of a surprise was the forward guidance on the dot plot. They were expecting two prior to this, they're now saying three expected for 2017, so maybe that could be read as a bit more of a hawkish tilt on the Fed policy looking out over the next 12 months.

"If you got back a year ago they were expecting three or four hikes in 2016. We got one. Reading too much into that I think would be kind of a fool's errand. But the market reaction right now is, hey maybe they're a touch more hawkish than we expected going into the meeting."

DAVID SCHIEGOLEIT, MANAGING DIRECTOR, U.S. BANK PRIVATE CLIENT RESERVE, LOS ANGELES:

"The initial reaction is it was pretty much as expected across the board, even the statement. The only change we really saw was from September they have upped their prediction for the number of hikes from two to three. That is really not that big of a surprise, the market did a good job getting ahead of the curve on that. So we will wait and see what comes out in the press conference but just from the statement there wasn't a lot of surprises."

"Whenever we get these policy statements in the minutes afterwards we always see a lot of volatility (in stocks) so I don't read too much into it. However, I'm beginning to think the market might be looking for an excuse to take some profits. We've had such a strong run here for the past couple of weeks that any excuse to take some money off the board might hold a little bit more water than usual. That could be what we see here and heading into the close."

The economic projections don't "surprise me especially, on the employment side since we have had some pretty decent numbers here for the past several quarters. So them coming down on that doesn't surprise me a whole lot, that just tells me they feel in terms of the employment number they are fairly positioned and a little bit ahead of the curve. This statement, everything I have read so far is almost a yawner, it really is very much in line across the board with what the market seemed to be expecting and what we were expecting. So even their move from two to three (rate hikes) is not much of a surprise."

FRANCES DONALD, SENIOR ECONOMIST, MANULIFE ASSET MANAGEMENT IN BOSTON:

"All elements we've received so far from the Fed including the policy statement, the forecasts, the dot plot tilt hawkish. They imply that the Fed sees more room to run with interest rates higher given the Trump election."

"Yellen's challenge will be to tilt the press conference more dovish in order for today to be seen as a balanced statement. The U.S. dollar is strengthening aggressively and bond yields are rising more sharply than would be justified by interest rate hikes alone. If the fed appears overly hawkish it will restrain growth in 2017 which is problematic given that the impact of Trump policies is more likely to be in 2018."

"It appears the Federal Reserve is removing the punch bowl for equities more quickly than we initially thought. How equities end the day will depend heavily on the tone Janet Yellen uses in her press conference. How she explains this hike, whether its dovish or hawkish, will matter considerably to markets for 2017."

AARON KOHLI, INTEREST RATE STRATEGIST, BMO CAPITAL MARKETS, NEW YORK:

"It's a little bit more hawkish than expected. They moved up the dots a little bit more aggressively in the near-term and their near-term projections for GDP. There was a dot plot change that was a little more aggressive than anticipated. Changing the near-term means you are more certain that you will have a little more rope to go, they didn't move any of the longer-term stuff so maybe that confidence isn't supremely high, but certainly it's improving for them. The real question is whether this is caused by the continuation of economic growth or whether it's really the result of any new data we've received, specifically on fiscal stimulus. They didn't mention the fiscal stimulus but typically their aggressiveness does indicate that there's a little more confidence that they can get away with three hikes next year."

DOUG DUNCAN, CHIEF ECONOMIST, FANNIE MAE, WASHINGTON:

"They haven't overreacted to the move in rate structure since the election. They are taking a wait-and-see attitude. They raised the target rate as expected. I don't see any changes in their central tendency forecasts. At least right now, nothing has changed in the economy except for expectations. We are going to see bigger pullback in refinancing even if mortgage rates stay at the current levels. I expect home sales to be dented in the early part of the year with rates moving up so much as quickly. I think the homebuilders will keep going since there's still a shortage in supply even if demand slows from these higher rates.

"If we see another 40 basis point increase in mortgage rates, the drag on housing activity would be significant. It remains to be seen how (fiscal) policies would affect economic activity in the second of the year. It would matter in what order these policies would be enacted. This is the third longest economic expansion on record but it's getting long in the tooth." HEIDI LEARNER, CHIEF ECONOMIST, SAVILLS STUDLEY, NEW YORK:

"It's not too exciting. The only real thing is that they are basically pricing in an extra rate hike in 2017.

"They didn't take out the use of 'gradual.' So that suggests that even if things do start to indicate that there are some inflationary pressures, it's unlikely that they're going to try to get ahead of the curve. There'll be plenty of time for raising rates as needed.

"My question is what changed if they didn't change their GDP, employment or inflation forecasts? Their inflation is completely unchanged. GDP they increased by 0.1 percent for 2017, unemployment they brought down by one-tenth, so to me that's not enough to warrant an extra hike. It could just be again, this is the composition of the FOMC's members own views, so perhaps more of them are indicating the risks of inflation are there. But it's a little bit surprising without the corresponding change to their forecasts."

SHAHAB JALINOOS, GLOBAL HEAD OF FX STRATEGY, CREDIT SUISSE, NEW YORK:

"Not entirely surprising I would say. It's an argument for modest dollar strength, but not necessarily in and of itself going to change the bigger picture. Obviously the market now still has to listen to what Chair Yellen says. Simply looking at the statement, they make it very clear that they think the labor market conditions are going to strengthen further, that the economy will continue to expand, at what they call a moderate pace."

"If you throw into the mix the possibility of Trumponomics, clearly that's another aspect to consider, but it's not something that has been referenced specifically in the text of the statement. The game was higher U.S. yields, which has been in place for some time, a higher dollar against core defensive currencies like the euro and the yen, and that trend persists. So in that sense, the game hasn't changed."

COLLIN MARTIN, DIRECTOR, FIXED INCOME, SCHWAB CENTER FOR FINANCIAL RESEARCH, NEW YORK:

"In a nutshell the decision to hike rates was expected by us and expected by the market, so no surprise there. Very few changes to the economic projections, which we also expected. It seems like they'll probably wait to get new information from the new administration to get more details before they make any changes to their economic projections. So no surprise there."

"We were a little bit surprised about the increase in the dots. That was a little bit more hawkish than we expected, and it looks like the market is taking that in stride as well. It's a little bit more bearish for the Treasury market than we had anticipated and we're seeing that with yields across the curve up a few basis points. I guess in a nutshell this is a little bit more bearish for the bond market than what we had expected."

DAVID JOY, CHIEF MARKET STRATEGIST, AMERIPRISE FINANCIAL, BOSTON:

"It was little more hawkish than the market was expecting although the initial reaction to stocks was up. The Fed went to three rate hikes next year versus two, that is consistent with what we are expecting for next year, but it probably comes as little surprise to the market place. You see it reflected in fixed income now, the 2-year (Treasury yield) is up to 1.21 percent and the 10-year is at 2.49 percent so bonds are selling off in response to this, not yet so for stocks but stocks may turn negative on this news."

The FOMC's economic projections are "moving in our direction, we are looking for as much 2.5 (percent GDP growth) next year, they are at 2.1 (percent), it is up a little bit. I suspect they are taking a little bit of a wait-and-see approach to some changes from the new administration than we are in baking some things in. Nevertheless this is in recognition that the economy is already behaving better than it was when they met in September or they met in November, so they are kind of catching up a little bit. If they didn't acknowledge that they risked maybe falling behind the curve a little bit so I applaud them for moving in this direction. Especially in light of some commentators saying they would be very dovish and lay low and stay out of the new President-elect's way. They chose to talk about and do exactly what they say the data is telling them."

TOM PORCELLI, CHIEF U.S. ECONOMIST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS, NEW YORK:

"It's critical to understand why the dots shifted, if you look at the average of the dots they moved very little. In 2017 they moved 6 basis points. Basically what happened is someone in the lower tier of the dot plot shifted higher, and that's basically what moved the median. It's important to note that the average shifted very modestly. It doesn't indicate that they are looking to ramp it up. Someone who had thought that they are going to have very middling hikes over the coming year has just shifted and that's basically the bottom line." MARKET REACTION:

STOCKS: S&P 500 now about 0.3 pct lower; Dow down about 0.15 pct

BONDS: 2- and 10-year Treasury yields move higher; 2-year yield at 1.22 pct, around the highest since August 2009; 10s just below 2.50 pct

RATE FUTURES: December 2017 Fed fund futures fall 7 basis points to the lowest since January FOREX: The dollar index rose, led by gains against the euro and Japanese yen

(Americas Economics and Markets Desk; +1-646 223-6300)
   RFReleased: 2016-12-17T19:45:40.000Z   COfed : Federal Reserve Board   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | e1101 : Economic Growth | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Monetary Policy   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCSERVICE:ABN | SERVICE:D | SERVICE:E | SERVICE:RBN | SERVICE:M | SERVICE:MNI | SERVICE:NAT | SERVICE:U | SERVICE:C | SERVICE:O | SERVICE:MTL | SERVICE:GRO | SERVICE:SOF | SERVICE:OIL | LANG:en | OEC | STX | DBT | FUND | MMT | MNEY | FRX | GVD | INVB | INVM | MCE | ECON | ECI | US | NEWS1 | CEN | FED | FINS | BISV | INVS | AMERS | NAMER | FIN | USA | BACT   IPDBusiness | Economy | US | Instant Views | Reports | USA-ECONOMY/INSTANT (INSTANT VIEW 5) | USA | INSTANT (INSTANT VIEW 5)   PUBThomson Reuters (Markets) LLC   ANDocument LBA0000020161214ecce011i1  



 HDINSTANT VIEW 6-US Fed raises rates for second time since Great Recession   WC2,537 words   PD14 December 2016   ET21:32   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2016 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved. 
   LPDec 14 (Reuters) - The U.S. Federal Reserve raised interest rates by a quarter point on Wednesday and signaled a faster pace of increases in 2017 as the Trump administration takes over with promises to boost growth through tax cuts, spending and deregulation.

STORY: TEXT:
   TDTable of forecasts:

KEY POINTS: * FOMC forecasts suggest 3 hikes in 2017 vs 2 from September projections * Longer-run FOMC target rate seen around 3.0 pct vs 2.9 pct in September projections * FOMC statement: "Market-based measures of inflation compensation have moved up considerably but still are low" * FOMC statement: "The stance of monetary policy remains accommodative, thereby supporting some further strengthening in labor market conditions and a return to 2 percent inflation" * Vote was unanimous

COMMENTS: MINH TRANG, SENIOR FOREIGN CURRENCY TRADERS, SILICON VALLEY BANK, SANTA CLARA, CALIFORNIA:

"She basically came out to support the rate hike today. She is also giving a guideline for 2017 with possibly three rate hikes. This is a vote of confidence on the economy that's strong enough to support another rate hike. It paints a supportive picture for dollar. The dollar has been strong for the last 30 days. That's been the dominant move. Today that trend continues. The press conference is tempering the initial enthusiasm from the statement. More fiscal stimulus and more rate increases will create a stronger dollar but we are looking pretty far ahead. You are seeing more of a weakness against the yen at this point. I wouldn't be surprised to hear about the parity chant again on the euro with anti-establishment wind blowing there."

LUKE BARTHOLOMEW, INVESTMENT MANAGER, ABERDEEN ASSET MANAGEMENT, LONDON:

"The Fed has finally delivered a second rate hike a year after the last one in this cycle.

"What's more interesting is their guidance on where interest rates might go from here. This time last year the Fed turned out to be wildly off mark in what they were predicting. But this year there are reasons for thinking the Fed's guidance is more realistic. The economy is in a more advanced stage of recovery and market pricing reflects this. We can expect rates to slowly climb through next year and beyond."

"Trump is the big known unknown. The Fed is currently agnostic about the impact his policies will have. But that's partly because neither they, or any of the rest of us, knows what they'll be. If there is a large fiscal stimulus then this will almost certainly create inflationary pressure that the Fed will have to fight by raising rates. It's far from clear how big any stimulus will be and what impact it will have. The Fed is as much in the dark about this as the rest of us."

JASON WARE, CHIEF INVESTMENT OFFICER, ALBION FINANCIAL GROUP, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH:

"Last time we had a hike a year ago what it meant for markets was volatility and downside. Is the same thing going to happen this time? Nobody knows for sure, but I think what we can take from this is that the market is taking it in stride, we're not seeing a big selloff, not too big of a deviation from what was happening in the market before they made the announcement. Looking at it on a one-day basis, kind of the reaction you'd expect: bit of volatility in the equity market, kind of a flat reaction, bond prices down, yields up, dollar up a little bit, gold down a little bit."

"What was perhaps a bit of a surprise was the forward guidance on the dot plot. They were expecting two prior to this, they're now saying three expected for 2017, so maybe that could be read as a bit more of a hawkish tilt on the Fed policy looking out over the next 12 months.

"If you got back a year ago they were expecting three or four hikes in 2016. We got one. Reading too much into that I think would be kind of a fool's errand. But the market reaction right now is, hey maybe they're a touch more hawkish than we expected going into the meeting."

DAVID SCHIEGOLEIT, MANAGING DIRECTOR, U.S. BANK PRIVATE CLIENT RESERVE, LOS ANGELES:

"The initial reaction is it was pretty much as expected across the board, even the statement. The only change we really saw was from September they have upped their prediction for the number of hikes from two to three. That is really not that big of a surprise, the market did a good job getting ahead of the curve on that. So we will wait and see what comes out in the press conference but just from the statement there wasn't a lot of surprises."

"Whenever we get these policy statements in the minutes afterwards we always see a lot of volatility (in stocks) so I don't read too much into it. However, I'm beginning to think the market might be looking for an excuse to take some profits. We've had such a strong run here for the past couple of weeks that any excuse to take some money off the board might hold a little bit more water than usual. That could be what we see here and heading into the close."

The economic projections don't "surprise me especially, on the employment side since we have had some pretty decent numbers here for the past several quarters. So them coming down on that doesn't surprise me a whole lot, that just tells me they feel in terms of the employment number they are fairly positioned and a little bit ahead of the curve. This statement, everything I have read so far is almost a yawner, it really is very much in line across the board with what the market seemed to be expecting and what we were expecting. So even their move from two to three (rate hikes) is not much of a surprise."

FRANCES DONALD, SENIOR ECONOMIST, MANULIFE ASSET MANAGEMENT IN BOSTON:

"All elements we've received so far from the Fed including the policy statement, the forecasts, the dot plot tilt hawkish. They imply that the Fed sees more room to run with interest rates higher given the Trump election."

"Yellen's challenge will be to tilt the press conference more dovish in order for today to be seen as a balanced statement. The U.S. dollar is strengthening aggressively and bond yields are rising more sharply than would be justified by interest rate hikes alone. If the fed appears overly hawkish it will restrain growth in 2017 which is problematic given that the impact of Trump policies is more likely to be in 2018."

"It appears the Federal Reserve is removing the punch bowl for equities more quickly than we initially thought. How equities end the day will depend heavily on the tone Janet Yellen uses in her press conference. How she explains this hike, whether its dovish or hawkish, will matter considerably to markets for 2017."

AARON KOHLI, INTEREST RATE STRATEGIST, BMO CAPITAL MARKETS, NEW YORK:

"It's a little bit more hawkish than expected. They moved up the dots a little bit more aggressively in the near-term and their near-term projections for GDP. There was a dot plot change that was a little more aggressive than anticipated. Changing the near-term means you are more certain that you will have a little more rope to go, they didn't move any of the longer-term stuff so maybe that confidence isn't supremely high, but certainly it's improving for them. The real question is whether this is caused by the continuation of economic growth or whether it's really the result of any new data we've received, specifically on fiscal stimulus. They didn't mention the fiscal stimulus but typically their aggressiveness does indicate that there's a little more confidence that they can get away with three hikes next year."

DOUG DUNCAN, CHIEF ECONOMIST, FANNIE MAE, WASHINGTON:

"They haven't overreacted to the move in rate structure since the election. They are taking a wait-and-see attitude. They raised the target rate as expected. I don't see any changes in their central tendency forecasts. At least right now, nothing has changed in the economy except for expectations. We are going to see bigger pullback in refinancing even if mortgage rates stay at the current levels. I expect home sales to be dented in the early part of the year with rates moving up so much as quickly. I think the homebuilders will keep going since there's still a shortage in supply even if demand slows from these higher rates.

"If we see another 40 basis point increase in mortgage rates, the drag on housing activity would be significant. It remains to be seen how (fiscal) policies would affect economic activity in the second of the year. It would matter in what order these policies would be enacted. This is the third longest economic expansion on record but it's getting long in the tooth." HEIDI LEARNER, CHIEF ECONOMIST, SAVILLS STUDLEY, NEW YORK:

"It's not too exciting. The only real thing is that they are basically pricing in an extra rate hike in 2017.

"They didn't take out the use of 'gradual.' So that suggests that even if things do start to indicate that there are some inflationary pressures, it's unlikely that they're going to try to get ahead of the curve. There'll be plenty of time for raising rates as needed.

"My question is what changed if they didn't change their GDP, employment or inflation forecasts? Their inflation is completely unchanged. GDP they increased by 0.1 percent for 2017, unemployment they brought down by one-tenth, so to me that's not enough to warrant an extra hike. It could just be again, this is the composition of the FOMC's members own views, so perhaps more of them are indicating the risks of inflation are there. But it's a little bit surprising without the corresponding change to their forecasts."

SHAHAB JALINOOS, GLOBAL HEAD OF FX STRATEGY, CREDIT SUISSE, NEW YORK:

"Not entirely surprising I would say. It's an argument for modest dollar strength, but not necessarily in and of itself going to change the bigger picture. Obviously the market now still has to listen to what Chair Yellen says. Simply looking at the statement, they make it very clear that they think the labor market conditions are going to strengthen further, that the economy will continue to expand, at what they call a moderate pace."

"If you throw into the mix the possibility of Trumponomics, clearly that's another aspect to consider, but it's not something that has been referenced specifically in the text of the statement. The game was higher U.S. yields, which has been in place for some time, a higher dollar against core defensive currencies like the euro and the yen, and that trend persists. So in that sense, the game hasn't changed."

COLLIN MARTIN, DIRECTOR, FIXED INCOME, SCHWAB CENTER FOR FINANCIAL RESEARCH, NEW YORK:

"In a nutshell the decision to hike rates was expected by us and expected by the market, so no surprise there. Very few changes to the economic projections, which we also expected. It seems like they'll probably wait to get new information from the new administration to get more details before they make any changes to their economic projections. So no surprise there."

"We were a little bit surprised about the increase in the dots. That was a little bit more hawkish than we expected, and it looks like the market is taking that in stride as well. It's a little bit more bearish for the Treasury market than we had anticipated and we're seeing that with yields across the curve up a few basis points. I guess in a nutshell this is a little bit more bearish for the bond market than what we had expected."

DAVID JOY, CHIEF MARKET STRATEGIST, AMERIPRISE FINANCIAL, BOSTON:

"It was little more hawkish than the market was expecting although the initial reaction to stocks was up. The Fed went to three rate hikes next year versus two, that is consistent with what we are expecting for next year, but it probably comes as little surprise to the market place. You see it reflected in fixed income now, the 2-year (Treasury yield) is up to 1.21 percent and the 10-year is at 2.49 percent so bonds are selling off in response to this, not yet so for stocks but stocks may turn negative on this news."

The FOMC's economic projections are "moving in our direction, we are looking for as much 2.5 (percent GDP growth) next year, they are at 2.1 (percent), it is up a little bit. I suspect they are taking a little bit of a wait-and-see approach to some changes from the new administration than we are in baking some things in. Nevertheless this is in recognition that the economy is already behaving better than it was when they met in September or they met in November, so they are kind of catching up a little bit. If they didn't acknowledge that they risked maybe falling behind the curve a little bit so I applaud them for moving in this direction. Especially in light of some commentators saying they would be very dovish and lay low and stay out of the new President-elect's way. They chose to talk about and do exactly what they say the data is telling them."

TOM PORCELLI, CHIEF U.S. ECONOMIST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS, NEW YORK:

"It's critical to understand why the dots shifted, if you look at the average of the dots they moved very little. In 2017 they moved 6 basis points. Basically what happened is someone in the lower tier of the dot plot shifted higher, and that's basically what moved the median. It's important to note that the average shifted very modestly. It doesn't indicate that they are looking to ramp it up. Someone who had thought that they are going to have very middling hikes over the coming year has just shifted and that's basically the bottom line." MARKET REACTION:

STOCKS: S&P 500 now about 0.75 pct lower; Dow down about 0.6 pct; Russell 2k

BONDS: 2- and 10-year Treasury yields move higher; 2-year yield at 1.26 pct to the highest since August 2009; 9 basis point rise the largest since Feb 2015; 10s just above 2.53 pct

RATE FUTURES: December 2017 Fed fund futures fall 10 basis points to the lowest since January FOREX: The dollar index rises to near the highest in 13 years, led by gains against the euro and Japanese yen

(Americas Economics and Markets Desk; +1-646 223-6300)
   RFReleased: 2016-12-17T20:32:53.000Z   COfed : Federal Reserve Board | silivb : Silicon Valley Bank | silvbs : SVB Financial Group   INi814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | e1101 : Economic Growth | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Monetary Policy   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCSERVICE:ABN | SERVICE:D | SERVICE:E | SERVICE:RBN | SERVICE:M | SERVICE:MNI | SERVICE:NAT | SERVICE:U | SERVICE:C | SERVICE:O | SERVICE:MTL | SERVICE:GRO | SERVICE:SOF | SERVICE:OIL | LANG:en | OEC | STX | DBT | FUND | MMT | MNEY | FRX | GVD | INVB | INVM | MCE | ECON | ECI | US | NEWS1 | CEN | FED | FINS | BISV | INVS | AMERS | NAMER | FIN | USA | BACT   IPDBusiness | Economy | US | Instant Views | Reports | USA-ECONOMY/INSTANT (INSTANT VIEW 6) | USA | INSTANT (INSTANT VIEW 6)   PUBThomson Reuters (Markets) LLC   ANDocument LBA0000020161214ecce010vt  



 HDJGBs slip, taking cue from U.S. Treasuries on hawkish Fed   WC469 words   PD15 December 2016   ET08:17   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2016 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved. 
   LPTOKYO, Dec 15 (Reuters) - Japanese government bond prices fell on Thursday, with the benchmark 10-year JGB yield matching this week's 10-month high in the wake of a rise in U.S. Treasury yields after the Federal Reserve projected a greater number of interest rate hikes next year.

The benchmark 10-year yield added 2.5 basis points (bps) to 0.080 percent, while 10-year JGB futures finished down 0.25 point at 149.72.
   TDThe Federal Reserve's 25 basis-point interest rate increase on Wednesday was widely anticipated by financial markets. After the Fed signalled three hikes instead of two in 2017, the yield on 10-year Treasuries rose as high as 2.587 percent, its highest level since September 2014.

"A sharp rise in U.S. Treasuries yields put renewed upward pressure on the JGB curve," said Naomi Muguruma, senior strategist, Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities.

"I think market participants are sceptical about the BOJ's commitment to yield curve control," Muguruma said. "Domestic investors are staying on the sidelines to see if U.S. Treasury yields continue to rise."

Demand at an auction of 20-year JGBs was relatively strong, she said, as many investors expect the Bank of Japan to offer to buy superlong bonds in its asset purchase operations on Friday to keep rising yields in check, as it did on Wednesday.

Under its current monetary policy framework of "yield curve control," the BOJ aims to guide the 10-year JGB yield to around zero percent.

A BOJ official on Wednesday said that its increased purchase of superlong bonds was aimed at steering the JGB yield curve toward what the central bank deems appropriate, and that the move took into account recent rapid yield rises and the possibility of further volatility.

On Thursday, the Ministry of Finance offered 1.1 trillion yen ($9.37 billion) of 20-year JGBs with a 0.6 percent coupon, and 59.4576 percent of the bids were accepted at the lowest price of 99.00.

The sale drew bids 3.35 times the amount offered, up from the previous sale's bid-to-cover ratio of 3.17 times. The tail between the average and lowest accepted prices narrowed to 0.19, compared with that of last month's offering at 0.40, indicating stronger demand for the bonds.

The 20-year JGB yield edged up 0.5 bp to 0.605 percent.

But the 30-year yield shed 1.5 bps to 0.715 percent, moving away from 0.760 percent earlier as some investors stepped in to buy at session lows. ($1 = 117.4200 yen) (Reporting by Tokyo markets team; Editing by Amrutha Gayathri) 
   RFReleased: 2016-12-15T08:17:57.000Z   COmitfin : Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Inc. | fed : Federal Reserve Board   INi814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services | iibnk : Integrated Banks   NSmntdbt : National Government Debt/Bond Markets | e1202 : Interest Rates | gvtre : Treasury Department | e12 : Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | gvexe : Executive Branch | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter   REjap : Japan | usa : United States | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America   IPCSERVICE:ABN | SERVICE:D | SERVICE:E | SERVICE:RBN | SERVICE:J | SERVICE:M | SERVICE:NAT | SERVICE:ABX | SERVICE:BNX | SERVICE:FUN | SERVICE:U | SERVICE:RNP | SERVICE:DNP | SERVICE:PTD | LANG:en | OEC | DBT | MMT | MNEY | GVD | JP | ASIA | EASIA | ASXPAC | JPN | BACT   IPDBusiness | Economy | Asia | Market Reports | Reports | JAPAN-BONDS/ | JAPAN | BONDS   PUBThomson Reuters (Markets) LLC   ANDocument LBA0000020161215eccf00bn2  



 HDRPT-Fed set to hike rates, policy outlook now hinges on Trump presidency   WC437 words   PD14 December 2016   ET13:00   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2016 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved. 
   LP(Repeats story from earlier on Wednesday)

WASHINGTON, Dec 14 (Reuters) - The Federal Reserve will conclude its two-day policy meeting on Wednesday afternoon with an interest rate increase all but assured and will issue new forecasts assessing whether the economic outlook has changed since the U.S. election.
   TDThe latest policy statement and projections are to be released at 2 p.m. EST (1900 GMT) with a press conference by Fed Chair Janet Yellen following at 2:30 p.m.

Markets are poised for the federal funds rate to rise to a target range of between 0.5 and 0.75 percent from the current range of 0.25-0.5 percent, where they have rested since the Fed approved its last rate increase a year ago.

Of more significance is the backdrop of the meeting. After years of the Fed fretting about low interest rates and weak inflation, the weeks since Donald Trump's victory have seen both bond yields and inflation expectations start to rise. The Dow Jones industrial average is up more than 11 percent since the vote.

Details of policymakers' new economic assessments, the first since the election, will be dissected closely to see if policymakers yet feel the arrival of the Trump administration has shifted the economic outlook or poses a risk of greater inflation. The president-elect has said he wants a major tax cut and infrastructure spending program, even as the economy approaches full employment and wages are rising.

"Inflation risks are more significant than they were three months ago," when the policymakers issued their last forecasts, sad Northern Trust chief economist Carl Tannenbaum. "Rates could well rise more than anticipated."

Despite the changed circumstances, it is not certain the Fed will budge on its assessments. The median forecast of policymakers as of September was for two interest rate increases in 2017, an outlook Tannenbaum and many analysts feel may remain the case.

Trump has not yet taken office, and any proposals would have to clear a Republican-controlled Congress that may be stricter about increasing public debt than Trump. In recent public appearances some Fed officials have said they see a chance Trump's policies may force them to speed the pace of rate increases, yet also said they are hesitant to change their outlook before he shares more details.

"Investors who are looking for clarity may be disappointed," said David Donabedian, chief investment officer of Atlantic Trust Private Wealth Management.

(Reporting by Howard Schneider; Editing by Andrea Ricci) 
   RFReleased: 2016-12-14T13:00:01.000Z   COfed : Federal Reserve Board   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | gpol : Domestic Politics | e12 : Monetary Policy | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCSERVICE:C | SERVICE:D | SERVICE:E | SERVICE:M | SERVICE:O | SERVICE:U | SERVICE:MTL | SERVICE:GRO | SERVICE:SOF | SERVICE:OIL | SERVICE:CANT | SERVICE:J | SERVICE:UKI | SERVICE:Z | SERVICE:AUF | SERVICE:G | SERVICE:RBN | SERVICE:RNP | SERVICE:DNP | SERVICE:PGE | LANG:en | f | MCE | ECON | PLCY | US | CEN | WASH | FED | MPLT | NEWS1 | INFL | GVD | INT | POL | DBT | AMERS | NAMER | GEN | ECO | USA | BACT | PIA | OVR | OEC   IPDBusiness | Economy | Politics | US | USA-FED/ (REPEAT) | USA | FED | (REPEAT)   PUBThomson Reuters (Markets) LLC   ANDocument LBA0000020161214ecce00a6u  



 HDUPDATE 1-Traders, in rare sync with Fed, see three rate hikes in 2017   WC284 words   PD14 December 2016   ET20:40   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2016 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved. 
   LP(Updates probabilities, adds background)

By Ann Saphir
   TDSAN FRANCISCO, Dec 14 (Reuters) - Traders of U.S. short-term interest rate futures are pricing in a faster pace of Federal Reserveinterest rate hikes next year after policymakers raised their benchmark rate and signaled they expect to raise it three more times next year.

It is a moment of rare agreement between rate traders and the Fed, which for the past year have diverged on how fast the central bank would raise rates as the economic recovery continued.

The Fed repeatedly anticipated a faster pace of rate hikes than markets did, and than it ultimately delivered. Last December, for instance, Fed officials had signaled they expected to raise rates four times in 2016; they managed to hike rates only once.

Meanwhile, traders consistently bet on a more gradual path of rates hikes, and Fed officials had to repeatedly lower their expected rate hike path, putting their forecasts more in line with traders.

On Wednesday, the tables turned.

Fresh Fed forecasts show policymakers now see three rate hikes in 2017 as the appropriate path, up from the two they expected back in September. Traders reacted quickly, sending down the price of fed funds futures contracts traded at CME Group Inc's Chicago Board of Trade.

Before the Fed decision at the conclusion of a two-day policy meeting, traders were pricing in one to two rate hikes next year. Now they see three rate hikes as likely, the same path seen by the Fed. (Reporting by Ann Saphir; Editing by G Crosse and Leslie Adler) 
   RFReleased: 2016-12-14T20:40:33.000Z   COfed : Federal Reserve Board   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | e12 : Monetary Policy   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCSERVICE:ABN | SERVICE:D | SERVICE:M | SERVICE:NAT | SERVICE:RNP | SERVICE:DNP | SERVICE:PTD | SERVICE:C | SERVICE:E | SERVICE:O | SERVICE:U | SERVICE:MTL | SERVICE:GRO | SERVICE:SOF | SERVICE:OIL | LANG:en | f | DBT | DRV | MMT | MNEY | GVD | INT | PLCY | US | CEN | WASH | FED | MCE | ECON | AMERS | NAMER | GEN | POL | ECO | USA | BACT | PIA | OVR | OEC   IPDBusiness | Economy | Politics | US | USA-FED/FUTURES (UPDATE 1) | USA | FED | FUTURES (UPDATE 1)   PUBThomson Reuters (Markets) LLC   ANDocument LBA0000020161214ecce0119r  



 HDHigher rents push up U.S. consumer inflation   WC497 words   PD15 December 2016   ET14:32   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2016 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved. 
   LPWASHINGTON, Dec 15 (Reuters) - U.S. consumer prices moderated in November, but the underlying trend continued to point to firming inflation pressures amid rising rents, which could support more interest rate increases from the Federal Reserve next year.

The Labor Department said on Thursday its Consumer Price Index rose 0.2 percent last month as gasoline price increases slowed and food costs remained soft. The CPI advanced 0.4 percent in October.
   TDIn the 12 months through November, the CPI increased 1.7 percent, the biggest year-on-year gain since October 2014. The CPI rose 1.6 percent in the year to October.

Economists polled by Reuters had forecast the CPI rising 0.2 percent last month and climbing to 1.7 percent from a year ago.

The so-called core CPI, which strips out food and energy costs, rose 0.2 percent last month after edging up 0.1 percent in October. Rents accounted for most of the increase in the core CPI last month. Despite the increase, the year-on-year increase in the core CPI was unchanged at 2.1 percent.

The Fed on Wednesday raised its benchmark overnight interest rate by 25 basis points to a range of 0.50 percent to 0.75 percent, in what Chair Janet Yellen said was "a vote of confidence in the economy."

The U.S. central bank forecast three rate hikes in 2017 in anticipation of U.S. President-elect Donald Trump's expansionary fiscal policy agenda aimed at boosting growth through infrastructure spending and tax cuts.

The Fed has a 2 percent inflation target and tracks an inflation measure which is currently at 1.7 percent.

The central bank noted that inflation had increased since "earlier this year" and expected it to rise to its target "over the next couple of years." Trump's proposed fiscal policy would come when the economy is at full employment and fans inflation.

Last month, gasoline prices rose 2.7 percent after jumping 7.0 percent in October. Food prices were unchanged for a fifth straight month. Food consumed at home declined for a seventh consecutive month.

Within the core CPI basket, housing continued its upward march in November. Rents increased 0.3 percent last month, with owners' equivalent rent of primary residence also gaining 0.3 percent after a similar rise in October.

The cost of medical care services rose 0.2 percent after being unchanged for two straight months. The cost of doctor visits increased 0.6 percent, while prices for prescription medicine fell 0.6 percent. The cost of hospital services slipped 0.1 percent.

There were increases in the prices of a range of other goods last month including used cars and trucks, which rose for the first time since February. The cost of motor vehicle insurance increased 1.0 percent. (Reporting by Lucia Mutikani; Editing by Paul Simao) 
   RFReleased: 2016-12-15T14:32:16.000Z   COfed : Federal Reserve Board | usdlab : United States Department of Labor   NSe1103 : Inflation/Prices | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | ecpin : Consumer Price Index | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Monetary Policy   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCSERVICE:ABX | SERVICE:BNX | SERVICE:FUN | SERVICE:RAST | LANG:en | f | MCE | ECON | ECI | US | INFL | NEWS1 | WASH | LEN | AMERS | NAMER | GEN | POL | USA | PIA | OVR | OEC   IPDBusiness | Economy | Politics | US | Reports | USA-ECONOMY/INFLATION (URGENT) | USA | INFLATION (URGENT)   PUBThomson Reuters (Markets) LLC   ANDocument LBA0000020161215eccf00nxe  



 HDU.S. Fed awards more reverse repos after rate hike   WC101 words   PD15 December 2016   ET19:23   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2016 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved. 
   LPNEW YORK, Dec 15 (Reuters) - The Federal Reserve on Thursday awarded $199.65 billion in one-day repurchase agreements at an interest rate of 0.50 percent to 53 bidders, a day after it raised short-term rates by a quarter point.

On Wednesday, the central bank allotted $169.56 billion in one-day reverse repos to 47 money market funds, mortgage finance agencies and other qualified participants at an interest rate of 0.25 percent. (Reporting by Richard Leong; Editing by Chris Reese) 
   RFReleased: 2016-12-15T19:23:57.000Z   COfed : Federal Reserve Board   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m131 : Money Markets | e12 : Monetary Policy | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCSERVICE:ABN | SERVICE:D | SERVICE:E | SERVICE:RBN | SERVICE:M | SERVICE:U | SERVICE:NAT | SERVICE:RNP | SERVICE:DNP | SERVICE:PTD | SERVICE:C | SERVICE:O | SERVICE:MTL | SERVICE:GRO | SERVICE:SOF | SERVICE:OIL | SERVICE:FUN | LANG:en | f | FED | CEN | PLCY | INT | BANK | FINS | MMT | MNEY | DRV | MTG | BISV | MCE | ECON | US | DBT | BSVC | AMERS | NAMER | FIN | BNK | ECO | USA | BACT | OEC   IPDBusiness | Economy | US | USA-FED/REVERSEREPOS (URGENT) | USA | FED | REVERSEREPOS (URGENT)   PUBThomson Reuters (Markets) LLC   ANDocument LBA0000020161215eccf00zfa  



 HDUPDATE 1-MetLife expects $300 mln boost to operating profit from interest rates   WC234 words   PD16 December 2016   ET00:05   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2016 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved. 
   LP(New throughout, adds details from filing and context about interest rate increases)               
   TDBy Suzanne Barlyn               

NEW YORK, Dec 15 (Reuters) - MetLife Inc expects higher U.S. interest rates to add $300 million to operating profits through 2019, the insurer said in a filing on Thursday.               

The New York-based company, which provides life insurance, annuities and employee benefits, detailed anticipated benefits from higher U.S. interest rates in an 8-K filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.               

At the same time, MetLife said it would face challenges in some foreign businesses and expenses for a cost-cutting program.               

MetLife forecast an earnings bump of $45 million next year, followed by $105 million in 2018 and $150 million in 2019, because of interest rate hikes.               

The U.S. Federal Reserve raised rates a quarter point on Wednesday and signaled a faster pace of increases in 2017 as the Trump administration takes over with promises to boost growth through tax cuts, spending and deregulation.               

Additionally, MetLife disclosed it would incur $300 million in pretax expenses in 2017 for a cost-cutting program announced earlier this year.               

The company's baseline operating earnings in its Latin American business would be about 10 percent lower in 2017, mostly due to Mexico's declining peso, MetLife said.               
   RFReleased: 2016-12-16T00:05:27.000Z   COfed : Federal Reserve Board | metlfe : MetLife Inc.   INi82 : Insurance | i82002 : Life Insurance | ifinal : Financial Services   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | c151 : Earnings | c152 : Earnings Projections | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ecat : Economic News | c15 : Financial Performance | e12 : Monetary Policy | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCSERVICE:ABN | SERVICE:E | SERVICE:RBN | SERVICE:FMA | SERVICE:FNE | SERVICE:ABX | SERVICE:BNX | SERVICE:FUN | SERVICE:U | SERVICE:D | SERVICE:NAT | SERVICE:RNP | SERVICE:DNP | SERVICE:PTD | SERVICE:PCO | SERVICE:C | SERVICE:M | SERVICE:O | SERVICE:MTL | SERVICE:GRO | SERVICE:SOF | SERVICE:OIL | LANG:en | f | FRX | FINS | INSR | PINS | INSB | CL | LINS | US | CMPNY | INT | RESF | MX | AMERS | MCE | ECON | CEN | BACT | INDU | RES | EMRG | CAMER | NAMER | LATAM | SAMER | FIN | MEX | CHL | USA | OEC   IPDBusiness | Economy | Health | Latin America | Central America | US | METLIFE-FORECASTS/ (UPDATE 1) | Metlife Inc | METLIFE | FORECASTS | (UPDATE 1)   PUBThomson Reuters (Markets) LLC   ANDocument LBA0000020161215eccf018dd  



 HDMexico's central bank hikes  interest rate  by more than U.S. Fed   WC89 words   PD15 December 2016   ET20:10   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2016 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved. 
   LPMEXICO CITY, Dec 15 (Reuters) - Mexico's central bank raised it benchmark interest rate on Thursday, outgunning the U.S. Federal Reserve in a bid to cool quickening inflation after Donald Trump's U.S. election win took the peso to record lows.

The Banco de Mexico hiked interest rates by 50 basis points to 5.75 percent, more than the median forecast by a Reuters poll of economists. (Reporting by Mexico newsroom) 
   RFReleased: 2016-12-15T20:10:12.000Z   CObcmeks : Banco de Mexico | fed : Federal Reserve Board   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | gpol : Domestic Politics | e12 : Monetary Policy | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations   REusa : United States | mex : Mexico | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | lamz : Latin America | namz : North America   IPCSERVICE:ABN | SERVICE:M | SERVICE:D | SERVICE:NAT | SERVICE:E | SERVICE:RBN | SERVICE:U | SERVICE:RNP | SERVICE:DNP | SERVICE:PTD | SERVICE:C | SERVICE:O | SERVICE:MTL | SERVICE:GRO | SERVICE:SOF | SERVICE:OIL | LANG:en | OEC | MCE | ECON | ECI | INT | PLCY | EMRG | MX | AMERS | LATAM | CEN | POL | FED | LAW | AGA | CAMER | NAMER | GEN | CLJ | ECO | MEX | BACT | PIA | OVR   IPDBusiness | Economy | Politics | Latin America | Central America | MEXICO-ECONOMY/RATES (URGENT) | MEXICO | RATES (URGENT)   PUBThomson Reuters (Markets) LLC   ANDocument LBA0000020161215eccf010qb  



 HDBucking Trend, All FOMC Voters in Favor of Rate Rise -- Market Talk   WC1,390 words   PD14 December 2016   ET20:06   SNDow Jones Institutional News   SCDJDN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright © 2016, Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 
   LP14:06 ET - The Fed's decision to raise short-term interest rates, so well-advertised ahead of today's FOMC meeting, saw all officials come together to vote unanimously in favor of the action. That represented a shift from the last few meetings that brought high levels of formal dissent from those who were ready to boost rates. Whether the collective joining-of-hands can be sustained next year is unclear given the rotation of three bank presidents into voting roles, all of whom are new to the Fed. The new leader of the Minneapolis Fed has been very dovish, and he could be resistant to the rate rises officials are currently penciling in. (michael.derby@wsj.com)
   TD14:05 ET - Federal Reserve officials expect the unemployment rate will fall further than they did in September, according to economic projections released Wednesday alongside the central bank's policy statement. Officials now see the unemployment rate ending 2016 at 4.7%. They anticipate the unemployment rate will drop to 4.5% by the end of 2017, where it will remain through the end of 2018 and 2019. They see the long-term unemployment rate settling at 4.8%, unchanged from September. At the same time, the Fed's inflation forecasts remain unchanged for 2017 and beyond. The new unemployment rate projections represent an acknowledgement by Fed officials that there might be slightly more slack in the labor market than they previously thought. The Labor Department reported earlier this month that the unemployment rate had fallen to 4.6% in November. (david.harrison@wsj.com)

14:05 ET - The dot plot shows most Fed policy makers anticipating either 2 or 3 quarter-point rate hikes next year. Four of 17 officials are projecting a half-point during the course of 2017 while 6 forecast 75 basis points worth. In September, just 3 of the 17 were anticipating no more than 2 quarter-point hikes through 2017, with another 7 projecting 75 basis points worth. Meanwhile, there 1 person which was projecting just a quarter-point between 3 months ago and 2019 is no more. Instead, the lowest rate forecast is for a quarter-point worth of increases from today's raised level. (kevin.kingsbury@wsj.com; @kevinkingsbury)

14:04 ET - Federal Reserve anticipate more short-term interest rate increases next year than they did in September, new economic projections show. Fed officials now see three rate increases in 2017, one more than they projected in September. The Fed penciled in three rate increases in 2018 and 2019, unchanged from September. Over the longer run, Fed officials now project short-term interest rates will settle at 3%, up from 2.9% in September. The move comes as president-elect Donald Trump has advocated an expansionary fiscal policy through tax cuts and higher spending levels. Fed officials, however, have studiously avoided speculating on the effect a Trump administration might have on their monetary policy. (david.harrison@wsj.com)

13:54 ET - With markets pricing in a near-certainty of a rate increase, one factor up in the air is whether the Fed today moves the cap on its repurchase agreements. Reverse repos involve the central bank taking in excess cash from banks and money-market funds and handing them Treasurys from its own portfolio as collateral overnight to invest in. The Fed has set the daily cap on reverse repos at $30B per counterparty. But with new regulations implemented for the $2.7T US money-market-fund industry only 2 months ago to the day, funds may reach that cap quickly, some analysts say. Whether to alter the cap is a decision which would have to be taken by the FOMC, not the New York Fed (which operates the program). (katy.burne@wsj.com)

13:44 ET - CFTC Chairman Timothy Massad is under fire for failing to complete curbs to speculation known as position limits. Three Democratic Senate lawmakers -- Sherrod Brown of Ohio, Dianne Feinstein of California and Maria Cantwell of Washington -- wrote to Massad to say they are "disturbed" by his "inability to guide the rule to completion." Last week, Massad re-proposed the restrictions for the third time since 2011, saying he didn't want to finalize a rule that a Republican administration next year would elect not to implement or enforce. Massad is expected to step down as chairman sometime in early 2017. (andrew.ackerman@wsj.com; @amacker)

13:41 ET - Jeff Holmstead, a top EPA official during the George W. Bush administration, says legal precedent will compel Trump's EPA to have a rule setting a carbon standard for power plants not yet built--contrary to his campaign promises. "As someone who sat at the agency, I think the advice they will get is that they really need to do a carbon standard for new coal-fired power plants," says Jeff Holmstead, who was a candidate to head the EPA under Trump. "But they can do one that's not unreasonable." (amy.harder@wsj.com; @AmyAHarder)

13:15 ET - Alaska Air (ALK) closing its $2.6B acquisition of Virgin America also brings the assumption of $1.4B in debt and lease obligations. It also prompts S&P to drop ALK's credit rating a notch to junk territory because of the higher debt load as well as integration risks. The move isn't a surprise as S&P put ALK on watch for downgrade in April after the Virgin America deal was announced. (susan.carey@wsj.com)

13:11 ET - Berkshire Hathaway's Class B shares (BRKB) now account for more than half of the company's market capitalization, up from about 12% when they debuted in 1996, according to FactSet. The Class As, which briefly topped $250K for the first time in recent days, account for a shrinking portion of the conglomerate's equity as Buffett converts his As to Bs as part of his charitable giving. As can be converted into 1,500 Bs. The company's market cap has topped $400B for the first time this month, making Berkshire No. 4 behind Apple (AAPL), Alphabet (GOOGL) and Microsoft (MSFT). (nicole.friedman@wsj.com; @NicoleFriedman)

18:10 ET - The Belgian stock market BEL 20 closes down 0.99% at 3545.9, in line with all European markets. The laggards of this session are Etablissementen Franz Colruyt, down 9.4% on modest results, followed by Ontex Group N.V., down 2.2%. The best performing stocks of this session are Royal Ahold Delhaize N.V., up 1.3% and Bekaert SA, up 1.2%. (valentina.pop@wsj.com)

12:58 ET - The government's audit regulator will see a budget increase of 4.2% next year under a budget approved by the Securities and Exchange Commission. The 2017 budget for the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board will be $268.5M for 2017, up from $257.7M in 2016. The budget is nearly completely funded by an accounting support fee levied on the public companies and brokers and dealers who the PCAOB audits. PCAOB Chairman James Doty tells the SEC "this is not a growth budget" but would enable the board to "sustain" improvements in audits and investor protection. (michael.rapoport@wsj.com; @rapoportwsj)

12:45 ET - Corruption investigations and protests continue to mount pressure on Brazilian president Michel Temer, but lawmakers are unlikely to turn on him anytime soon, says the Eurasia Group. Temer's presidency has been rocked in recent days by a series of leaked allegations against him and his allies as part of the country's "Car Wash" corruption probe, which have fanned the flames of popular discontent. But his coalition partners know that the success of his economic agenda is their best bet for making it through the turmoil. "Despite the worsening environment... Temer's base of support in congress is unlikely to break apart or weaken to a point of seriously undermining the reforms in 2017 given lawmakers' instinct of political survival," says Eurasia, which puts the odds of Temer not seeing through his mandate at 20%. (benjamin.parkin@wsj.com)

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

December 14, 2016 14:06 ET (19:06 GMT)
   COfed : Federal Reserve Board   INi814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | i836 : Accounting | ibnk : Banking/Credit | iacc : Accounting/Consulting | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | ifinal : Financial Services   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | e1116 : Employment/Unemployment | c131 : Regulatory Bodies | ecat : Economic News | ginda : Independent Advisory Bodies | gvbod : Government Bodies | gvote1 : National/Presidential Elections | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | namt : All Market Talk | ndjmt : Dow Jones Market Talk | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | nfiac : Fixed Income Asset Class News | nfxacb : Forex Asset Class Basic News | nfxacp : Forex Asset Class Premium News | c13 : Regulation/Government Policy | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Monetary Policy | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvote : Elections | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument DJDN000020161214ecce0030y  



 HDYellen: 'We Have a Resilient Economy' -- Market Talk   WC1,365 words   PD14 December 2016   ET20:55   SNDow Jones Institutional News   SCDJDN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright © 2016, Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 
   LP14:55 ET - Make no mistake: Yellen wants households and businesses to know the Fed's decision to raise short-term interest rates is a vote of confidence in the economy. She notes Fed officials judged the economy to be strong and says the central bank is making progress toward its goals of maximum employment and stable prices. "The economy has proven to be remarkably resilient," adding the decision was well-anticipated by markets and likely will have a relatively small effect on market rates. "Overall, I think households and firms will see very modest changes from this decision." (kate.davidson@wsj.com)
   TD14:54 ET - The National Chicken Council says "all options are on the table," for the poultry trade body to beat back new USDA regulations unveiled today, which would make it easier for producers to challenge meatpackers on how they're paid to raise birds. The group raises a litany of problems with the USDA rules, alleging that if implemented they will lead to "frivolous lawsuits" that make chicken nuggets and cutlets more expensive for consumers and force farmers out of business, while "eliminating competition" among farmers that enhances animal welfare. The National Farmers Union, meanwhile, says the rules will help "level the playing field" for farmers and protect them from "discriminatory contract practices." (jacob.bunge@wsj.com; @jacobbunge)

14:53 ET - Utility stocks plummeted after the Federal Reserve raised its target interest rate by 0.25% and signaled three additional increases next year. Utilities pay reliable dividends and offer investors an alternative to bonds when there's little money to be maid in fixed income. Rising rates make the sector less attractive. The Utilities Selector Sector SPDR Fund (XLU) rose as high as $49.44 before the Fed's decision was announced at 2 pm, then tumbled as low as $48.11, according to FactSet. (asjylyn.loder@wsj.com; @asjylyn)

14:53 ET - Fed-fund futures are catching up with central bankers on rate policy. Amid today's rate hike was the biggest grouping of officials anticipating 3 more increases in 2017, with 2 the next-highest prediction. Futures show an 88% chance of at least one hike by November, versus 75% immediately before the top-of-the-hour pronouncements, according to CME data. Also for November, futures are priced in 56% chance for at least 2 hikes, compared with 36%. (chris.dieterich@wsj.com; @chrisdieterich)

19:49 GMT - The FOMC's hike was as expected but "the surprise is that despite sluggish recent quarters, the FOMC members viewed the economic conditions improving and were more optimistic on inflation and growth projections," says Antoine Lesne, EMEA head of ETF strategy at SPDR ETFs. Based on the fiscal stimulus expected to be delivered by the Trump administration the FOMC increased its expectations for more than 2 hikes in 2017, he says. "The jury is still out but this outcome may put further pressure on bonds increasing yields in the shorter end of the curve," he says, adding that higher inflation expectations may benefit TIPS on a relative value basis. "Watch for equities incorporating higher bond yields and this could warrant more caution." (emese.bartha@wsj.com; @EmeseBartha)

14:46 ET - One of the key questions surrounding Janet Yellen's press conference was whether she would directly address the effect of Donald Trump's election last month. Federal Reserve Chairwoman did just that in her opening remarks but did not offer any firm guidance. Yellen said it was too soon to judge how fiscal changes would affect the Fed's outlook. "Changes in fiscal policy are only one of the many factors that can influence the outlook and the appropriate course of economic policy," she said. Yellen also said some Fed officials incorporated possible fiscal policy changes in their economic projections. (david.harrison@wsj.com)

14:48 ET - Amazon's (AMZN) 1st customer drone delivery took place in a rural area, currently one of the most logistically problematic and costly areas for retailers and delivery companies to conquer. Such deliveries tend to be more expensive because a UPS or FedEx driver might drive miles in each direction for just one package--eliminating any profit. That makes rural areas more-fertile territory for drone deliveries. "It's an interesting logistical concept, but not particularly viable in an urban environment," says former FedEx (FDX) executive Ivan Hofmann. "I don't look for one to deliver in downtown Manhattan anytime soon." (laura.stevens@wsj.com; @LauraStevensWSJ)

14:42 ET - Amid today's rate hike, House Financial Services Chairman Hensarling (R., Texas) touts a bill which would revamp how the Fed conducts monetary policy. "While today's rate hike was expected, what remains unclear is what comes next." He contends the Financial Choice Act would greatly improve the central bank's transparency and accountability using a rules-based monetary-policy approach. "Hardworking Americans would have more certainty about what comes next so they could better plan for their future." (donna.borak@wsj.com; @donnaborak)

14:42 ET - The Transportation Department fines American Airlines (AAL) $1.6M for violating its rule prohibiting tarmac delays of more than three hours without letting passengers deplane. The incidents--20 flights in Charlotte during a snowstorm in 2013 operated by AAL's merger partner US Airways and its regional partners, six flights in Dallas in 2015 operated by American in snow and rain conditions and one flight in Shreveport, La., that year--were blamed on the combined carrier's failure to properly assess the situations and take steps to prevent the extended tarmac waits. The DOT says more than $900K of the fine will be credited to AAL for compensation provided to passengers and toward its cost for installing systems in Charlotte and Dallas that can monitor the location of each aircraft on the ground. (susan.carey@wsj.com)

14:40 ET - There may be some nervousness about the Fed raising rates, but investors needn't accept lower returns as a result, says Nigel Green, CEO of London financial-advisory firm DeVere. He posits savvy investors will favor the dollar over other currencies since higher US interest rates will bring overseas capital into the country. Meanwhile, higher dollar-borrowing rates threaten emerging-market corporate debt because the stronger greenback makes interest and capital repayment more expensive in local-currency terms. Green also points out that higher interest will be demanded when debt has to be rolled over. (daisy.maxey@wsj.com; @DaisyMaxey)

14:37 ET - Fed-fund futures showed the odds for the Fed to raise rates by at least 25bps by the June 2017 meeting rose to 74% recently, vs 63% a day earlier, according to CME. The two-year US yield was up 6bps at 1.231%, continuing its normalization from historically low levels. The 10-year yield was up 2.6bps at 2.506%. Despite more than 100bps rise from its record close low, the 10-year yield is only up modestly from 2.273% traded at the end of 2015. Some analysts say this point to more room for the yield to rise in 2017, and revisit 3%--a level traded in early 2014. (min.zeng@wsj.com)

14:32 ET - The Port of Los Angeles says it handled 614,410 loaded containers in November, a 23% improvement on the same month last year and a month-to-month rise of 5.3% from October's volume, at a time of year when the seasonal peak in preholiday shipments typically turns down. Of those, 437,050 were imports and 177,360 were exports. Los Angeles is the largest container port in the hemisphere, handling roughly a third of the nation's imports from Asia. The top port has seen container volumes rise in recent months as volumes simultaneously fell at the neighboring port in Long Beach, Calif.--home to a major terminal largely owned by South Korea's now-bankrupt Hanjin Shipping (117930.SE). (erica.phillips@wsj.com)

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

December 14, 2016 14:55 ET (19:55 GMT)
   COfed : Federal Reserve Board   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | gvbod : Government Bodies | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | namt : All Market Talk | ndjmt : Dow Jones Market Talk | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | nfiac : Fixed Income Asset Class News | nfxacb : Forex Asset Class Basic News | nfxacp : Forex Asset Class Premium News | nfxmt : Foreign Exchange Market Talk | e12 : Monetary Policy | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument DJDN000020161214ecce0036i  



 HDCrude Prices Rise on Fed  Interest Rate  Increase   BYBy Kevin Baxter and Jenny Hsu    WC539 words   PD15 December 2016   ET12:31   SNDow Jones Institutional News   SCDJDN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright © 2016, Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 
   LPCrude prices unexpectedly rose Thursday despite the U.S. Federal Reserve's move to increase interest rates and a report pointing to increased output from OPEC.

The February contract for global crude oil benchmark Brent was up 0.98% at $54.43 while its U.S. counterpart West Texas Intermediate gained 0.59% to $51.34 for January deliveries.
   TDOvernight, the U.S. Federal Reserve raised interest rates for the first time in a year, putting some early pressure on commodities markets.

A rise in U.S. interest rates strengthens the greenback, the main currency used in oil trading, making oil more expensive for traders using other currencies. The dollar was last up 27 cents or 0.45% at $92.79, according to the WSJ Dollar Index which tracks the dollar against 16 currencies.

U.S. rates rises are usually bad news for oil. Demand for crude in emerging markets, a growth driver for global consumption, tends to fall when U.S. rates rise, according to an analysis by Bank of America Merrill Lynch.

Emerging economies are vulnerable to higher U.S. rates because their debts become costlier to finance and the stronger dollar makes many imports more expensive. That includes oil, which is priced in dollars and becomes more expensive for holders of other currencies as the greenback rises.

There was some positive news for oil from the U.S. on Wednesday when the Energy Information Administration released data that showed a surprise 2.6 million barrel decrease in U.S. crude stockpiles for the week ended Dec. 9.

Meanwhile, the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries' latest monthly report added more pressure, showing that the group increased its output by about 150,000 barrels a day in November to 33.87 million barrels a day.

In order for OPEC to reach its goal agreed Nov. 30 to cap the group's production at 32.5 million barrels a day, the group will have to cut 1.37 million barrels, more than the 1.2 million barrels originally envisioned, making it harder for the group to make good on its promises, said Capital Economics in a note.

The firm also pointed out downside risk from the possibility of increased output from Nigeria and Libya, who were exempt from this round of cuts as their production has been blunted by civil strife. If their production rises, the rest of the group would need to cut more, it said.

"The main flaw of the OPEC agreement comes from the fact that it exempts some countries from the cuts but formulates a supply target that includes them," said Olivier Jakob from Switzerland's Petromatrix in a note.

Nymex reformulated gasoline blendstock for January--the benchmark gasoline contract--was up 0.44% at $1.54 a gallon, while January diesel traded at $1.65, up 0.68%.

ICE gasoil for January changed hands at $483.50 a metric ton, down 0.97% from Wednesday's settlement.

Write to Kevin Baxter at Kevin.Baxter@wsj.com and Jenny Hsu at jenny.hsu@wsj.com

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

December 15, 2016 06:31 ET (11:31 GMT)
   COfed : Federal Reserve Board | opexpc : Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | mcroil : Crude Oil Markets | ecat : Economic News | gvbod : Government Bodies | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | m143 : Energy Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncmac : Commodities Asset Class News | nenac : Energy Asset Class News | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | nfiac : Fixed Income Asset Class News | nfxacb : Forex Asset Class Basic News | nfxacp : Forex Asset Class Premium News | e12 : Monetary Policy | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | m14 : Commodity Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | nigea : Nigeria | africaz : Africa | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | namz : North America | wafrz : West Africa   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument DJDN000020161215eccf001b1  



 HD*Fed Raises Interest Rates for First Time in 2016, Anticipates 3 Increases in 2017   WC1,492 words   PD14 December 2016   ET20:00   SNDow Jones Institutional News   SCDJDN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright © 2016, Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 
   LP14 Dec 2016 14:00 ET *Fed Sees Steeper Rate Path in 2017, Unchanged in 2018, 2019 and Longer Run

14 Dec 2016 14:00 ET *Fed Sees Three Rate Increases Each in 2017, 2018, 2019
   TD14 Dec 2016 14:00 ET *Less Consensus Among Fed Officials for Rate Increases Beyond 2017

14 Dec 2016 14:00 ET *Fed Officials See Fed Funds Rate at a Median of 0.600% at End of 2016

14 Dec 2016 14:00 ET *Fed Officials See Fed Funds Rate at a Median of 1.400% at End of 2017

14 Dec 2016 14:00 ET *Fed Officials See Fed Funds Rate at a Median of 2.100% at End of 2018

14 Dec 2016 14:00 ET *Fed Officials See Fed Funds Rate at a Median of 2.900% at End of 2019

14 Dec 2016 14:00 ET *Fed Officials See Fed Funds Rate at a Median of 3.000% in Longer Run

14 Dec 2016 14:00 ET *Fed Officials See Slightly Higher GDP in 2016, 2017, 2019, Unchanged in 2018

14 Dec 2016 14:00 ET *Fed Median GDP Projections: 1.9% in 2016, 2.1% in 2017, 2.0% in 2018, 1.9% in 2019

14 Dec 2016 14:00 ET *Fed Median Longer-Run GDP Projection: 1.8%, Unchanged From September

14 Dec 2016 14:00 ET *Fed Officials See Unemployment Rate Lower in 2016, 2017, Unchanged in 2018, Lower in 2019

14 Dec 2016 14:00 ET *Federal Reserve Changes Fed Funds Range to 0.50% to 0.75%

14 Dec 2016 14:00 ET *Fed Sees Near-Term Risks as 'Roughly Balanced'

14 Dec 2016 14:00 ET *Fed: Labor Market Has 'Continued to Strengthen'

14 Dec 2016 14:00 ET *Fed: Economic Activity Expanding at Moderate Pace

14 Dec 2016 14:00 ET *Fed: Job Gains 'Solid' in Recent Months, Unemployment Rate Has Declined

14 Dec 2016 14:00 ET *Fed: Household Spending 'Rising Moderately'

14 Dec 2016 14:00 ET *Fed: Business Fixed Investment Remains Soft

14 Dec 2016 14:00 ET *Fed: Inflation Has Increased, Remains Below 2% Target

14 Dec 2016 14:00 ET *Fed: Market-Based Inflation Measures 'Have Moved Up Considerably'

14 Dec 2016 14:00 ET *Fed: Survey-Based Inflation Measures Little Changed

14 Dec 2016 14:00 ET *Fed Will 'Closely Monitor' Inflation, Global Economic and Financial Developments

14 Dec 2016 14:00 ET *Fed Median Unemployment Projections: 4.7% in 2016, 4.5% in 2017, 2018, 2019

14 Dec 2016 14:00 ET *Fed Median Longer-Run Unemployment Projection: 4.8%, Unchanged From September

14 Dec 2016 14:00 ET *Fed Officials See Higher Inflation in 2016, Unchanged in 2017, 2018, 2019

14 Dec 2016 14:00 ET *Fed Median Inflation Projections: 1.5% in 2016, 1.9% in 2017, 2.0% in 2019, 2020

14 Dec 2016 14:00 ET *Fed Median Longer-Run Inflation Projection: 2.0%, Unchanged From September

14 Dec 2016 14:00 ET *Fed Median Core Inflation Projections: 1.7% in 2016, 1.8% in 2017, 2.0% in 2018, 2019

14 Dec 2016 14:00 ET *Fed: Monetary Policy 'Remains Accomodative'

14 Dec 2016 14:00 ET *Fed: 'Gradual' Rate Increases Will Expand Economic Activity, Strengthen Labor Market

14 Dec 2016 14:00 ET *FOMC: Voted 10-0 For Fed Funds Rate Action

14 Dec 2016 14:00 ET *Fed Raises Discount Rate 0.25-Pt to 1.25%

14 Dec 2016 14:00 ET  Fed Raises Interest Rates for First Time in 2016, Anticipates 3 Increases in 2017

By Harriet Torry

WASHINGTON-The Federal Reserve said Wednesday it would raise its benchmark short-term interest rate for the first time in a year and expects to lift it faster than previously projected in the coming year.

Fed officials said they would nudge up the federal-funds rate by a quarter percentage point on Thursday, to between 0.50% and 0.75%, a move that could cause other household and business borrowing costs to rise as well.

They also indicated they see a brightening economic outlook and expect to raise short-term rates next year by another 0.75 percentage point-likely in three quarter-point moves.

"The stance of monetary policy remains accommodative, thereby supporting some further strengthening in labor market conditions and a return to 2% inflation," the rate-setting Federal Open Market Committee said in a statement.

In new language in its statement, the Fed said the rate increase came "in view of realized and expected labor market conditions and inflation," a sign officials see the labor market as close to, or at, full employment.

Fed officials said an improving economy was ready for higher borrowing costs, pointing to "solid" job gains, and rising inflation and consumer spending.

The Fed continues to expect "gradual" rate increases, the statement said, although forecasts showed officials see rates rising faster next year than previously thought.

Officials expect the median fed-funds rate to be 1.4% by the end of 2017, according to the projection of 17 officials. According to their forecast, the fed-funds rate would reach 2.1% at the end of 2018 and 2.9% in 2019. That implies three quarter-percentage-point interest rates increases over each of the next three years. That is a faster pace than officials projected in September, when they only saw two rate increases next year.

The statement's message centered on a strong labor market and repeated its view that "near-term risks to the economic outlook appear roughly balanced." The Fed said it continues to closely monitor inflation indicators and global economic and financial developments.

When the Fed moves next will depend on various factors. Donald Trump's election victory has boosted market expectations that the next administration will cut taxes and increase spending, which could spur growth and inflation. This has pushed major U.S. stock indexes to record highs since Election Day. Such expectations also sent the yield on the 10-year Treasury note above 2.5% for the first time in two years on Monday.

Fed officials judge the economy has made enough progress to warrant a further step on the path it started a year ago when it began a slow retreat from easy money. They raised the fed-funds rate by a quarter percentage point last December after holding it near zero for seven years during the financial crisis, recession and fitful economic recovery.

The Fed's decision to raise rates cements the U.S. economy's status as an outlier among the world's largest economies. So far this year the European Central Bank, the Bank of England, the Bank of Japan and central banks in Brazil, South Korea and India have all cut rates --some into negative territory-- to fuel stronger inflation and growth.

Officials' projections for the coming years were generally rosier than their last batch in September, on a number of fronts. They expect inflation to rise from 1.5% in 2016 to 1.9% in 2017 and to its target of 2% in 2018.

They saw the jobless rate falling to 4.5% next year and remaining there through 2019.

The Fed welcomed recent signs of further improvement in the labor market. The jobless rate fell to 4.6% in November, a nine-year low.

"Job gains have been solid in recent months and the unemployment rate has declined," the Fed said.

Officials predicted the economy would expand at a median annual pace of 1.9% this year and 2.1% in 2017, a slight improvement from September, when officials last submitted forecasts. The shift could reflect a recent stream of better economic data, or the fiscal outlook.

Fed Chairwoman Janet Yellen won a unanimous vote. Ms. Yellen had faced dissent at five out of eight meetings this year, a sign of divisions within the Fed over the path of monetary policy.

The central bank began this year expecting to nudge rates up four times in quarter-percentage-point increments. It didn't move until now because of recurrent worries about growth, weak inflation, hiring and turbulence overseas-concerns that have since dissipated.

The Fed has been telegraphing the rate increase for months. In September, the central bank said the case for an increase had strengthened but found the economy had "a bit more running room," Ms. Yellen said. In mid-November testimony to Congress, Ms. Yellen said a rate increase was possible "relatively soon" due to the economy's "very good" progress on job creation and inflation.

Ahead of the December meeting, traders in futures markets had placed a 92.9% probability on a Fed rate increase at this meeting, according to CME Group.

Write to Harriet Torry at harriet.torry@wsj.com

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

December 14, 2016 14:00 ET (19:00 GMT)
   COfed : Federal Reserve Board   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News | effund : Interbank Rate | gvbod : Government Bodies | m131 : Money Markets | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | m14 : Commodity Markets | m141 : Agricultural Commodity Markets | ncmac : Commodities Asset Class News | nenac : Energy Asset Class News | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | nfiac : Fixed Income Asset Class News | nfxacb : Forex Asset Class Basic News | nfxacp : Forex Asset Class Premium News | nhotbn : Hot Business News | npred : Economic Predictions/Forecasts | ntab : Tables | ntesi : Essential Stock Market Information | ntop : Top Wire News | nttwn : Today's Top Wire News | e12 : Monetary Policy | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | ndj : Dow Jones Top Stories | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | niwe : IWE Filter | redit : Selection of Top Stories/Trends/Analysis   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument DJDN000020161214ecce002wv  



 HDGlobal Forex and Fixed Income Roundup: Market Talk   WC1,329 words   PD14 December 2016   ET20:05   SNDow Jones Institutional News   SCDJDN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright © 2016, Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 
   LP14:05 ET - Federal Reserve officials expect the unemployment rate will fall further than they did in September, according to economic projections released Wednesday alongside the central bank's policy statement. Officials now see the unemployment rate ending 2016 at 4.7%. They anticipate the unemployment rate will drop to 4.5% by the end of 2017, where it will remain through the end of 2018 and 2019. They see the long-term unemployment rate settling at 4.8%, unchanged from September. At the same time, the Fed's inflation forecasts remain unchanged for 2017 and beyond. The new unemployment rate projections represent an acknowledgement by Fed officials that there might be slightly more slack in the labor market than they previously thought. The Labor Department reported earlier this month that the unemployment rate had fallen to 4.6% in November. (david.harrison@wsj.com)
   TD14:05 ET - The dot plot shows most Fed policy makers anticipating either 2 or 3 quarter-point rate hikes next year. Four of 17 officials are projecting a half-point during the course of 2017 while 6 forecast 75 basis points worth. In September, just 3 of the 17 were anticipating no more than 2 quarter-point hikes through 2017, with another 7 projecting 75 basis points worth. Meanwhile, there 1 person which was projecting just a quarter-point between 3 months ago and 2019 is no more. Instead, the lowest rate forecast is for a quarter-point worth of increases from today's raised level. (kevin.kingsbury@wsj.com; @kevinkingsbury)

14:04 ET - Federal Reserve anticipate more short-term interest rate increases next year than they did in September, new economic projections show. Fed officials now see three rate increases in 2017, one more than they projected in September. The Fed penciled in three rate increases in 2018 and 2019, unchanged from September. Over the longer run, Fed officials now project short-term interest rates will settle at 3%, up from 2.9% in September. The move comes as president-elect Donald Trump has advocated an expansionary fiscal policy through tax cuts and higher spending levels. Fed officials, however, have studiously avoided speculating on the effect a Trump administration might have on their monetary policy. (david.harrison@wsj.com)

13:54 ET - With markets pricing in a near-certainty of a rate increase, one factor up in the air is whether the Fed today moves the cap on its repurchase agreements. Reverse repos involve the central bank taking in excess cash from banks and money-market funds and handing them Treasurys from its own portfolio as collateral overnight to invest in. The Fed has set the daily cap on reverse repos at $30B per counterparty. But with new regulations implemented for the $2.7T US money-market-fund industry only 2 months ago to the day, funds may reach that cap quickly, some analysts say. Whether to alter the cap is a decision which would have to be taken by the FOMC, not the New York Fed (which operates the program). (katy.burne@wsj.com)

IHeart Media says it would miss a $57.1M bond payment due on December 15 while paying $193M to creditors. Earlier this year bondholders tried to call the company in default. "IHeart Media Sues Bondholders -- Market Talk," published at 4:45pm ET on Dec. 13 incorrectly said that $130M was paid, omitted the December 15 due date, and said that bondholders had officially declared defaults.

1709 GMT - In a survey of procurement professionals conducted by market-research firm Mintec, 60% of respondents said they haven't prepared for any potential changes in the UK's trading relationships after it leaves the EU. Of those which have, the largest chunk seem to be steeling themselves for a "hard Brexit": 36% of respondents are preparing for the application of WTO rules. Meanwhile, 31% are preparing for a "Norway model" that would see the UK remaining in the European Economic Area and 18% are preparing for a "Swiss model" in which the UK would remain in the European Free Trade Association. (ed.ballard@wsj.com)

1643 GMT "Any rally in sterling will be a selling opportunity", says Societe Generale head of fixed income and forex strategy Vincent Chaigneau. Given the dollar is strengthening, now is a good time to go short GBP/USD, but he says he would wait to short the pound against the euro given eurozone political uncertainty. He says he would buy EUR/GBP once it drops towards 0.80. EUR/GBP last trades at 0.8381, GBP/USD at $1.2711. The recent sterling rally is largely due to investors covering hefty short positions built up since the Brexit vote, and CFTC data suggest there are still plenty more short positions to flush out, Mr. Chaigneau says. (jessica.fleetham@wsj.com)

1637 GMT The bond spreads of Swedish construction companies Skanska, NCC and Peab look set to benefit from Euroconstruct's expectations that the Nordic market will remain solid until 2019, says Swedbank. The construction forecasting firm upped its 2017 and 2018 estimates for Sweden, Norway and Finland compared to June, but its 2019 outlook points to contraction in Finland and Sweden. Swedbank keeps its overweight recommendation on Peab bonds, but Euroconstruct's outlook is not enough to change the underweight on NCC and the marketweight on Skanska. (tasos.vossos@wsj.com, @tasosvos)-0-

1637 GMT The European Central Bank's formal extension of quantitative easing until December 2017 was also "effectively a commitment to buy assets well into 2018," says Marchel Alexandrovich, senior European economist at Jefferies. Why is that so? "The ECB is very unlikely to go from EUR60 billion of purchases one month down to zero the next, and even the more hawkish governing council members have mentioned wanting to avoid this so-called cliff effect," he says. Earlier in December the ECB extended the asset purchases by nine months but reduced the monthly purchase volume to EUR60 billion from EUR80 billion, starting from April. (emese.bartha@wsj.com ; @EmeseBartha)

1634 GMT Yields on 10-year Greek government bonds are rocketing 50 bps to 7.35% as short-term debt relief measures are put on hold given the surprise benefit handouts by Athens. This jump erases around a quarter of Greek government bonds' bullish run since late October on a single session, according to Tradeweb data. Eurozone finance ministers agreed to debt-relief measures proposed by the European Stability Mechanism earlier this month, but the Syriza government's decision to hand out a bonus to pensioners has soured relations with creditors. (tasos.vossos@wsj.com, @tasosvos)

1634 GMT A stronger dollar--based on expectations of stronger U.S. economic growth--combined with higher bond yields and interest rates, will weigh heavily on currencies of indebted emerging-market countries with dollar-denominated debt, says Societe Generale head of fixed income and forex strategy Vincent Chaigneau. "It could be painful for countries where levels of debt are high," he says. Emerging market Asian currencies are particularly vulnerable, notably the Taiwan dollar and the Korean won, as well as the Turkish lira and the South African rand. (jessica.fleetham@wsj.com)

1631 GMT The European Central Bank is unlikely to end covered bond buying before its other purchase programs, says Societe Generale, even as covered bond QE is not as important nowadays. Covered bond purchases have failed to keep up with the program's early pace, despite the ECB boosting the QE program's monthly run rate earlier in 2016. After the ECB started hoovering corporate bonds, covered bond buying dropped to new lows. Still, the central bank will likely stay flexible and keep participating in new covered bond issues next year, adds SocGen. (tasos.vossos@wsj.com, @tasosvos)

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

December 14, 2016 14:05 ET (19:05 GMT)
   COfed : Federal Reserve Board   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | gvbod : Government Bodies | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | namt : All Market Talk | ndjmt : Dow Jones Market Talk | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | nfiac : Fixed Income Asset Class News | nfxacb : Forex Asset Class Basic News | nfxacp : Forex Asset Class Premium News | nfxmt : Foreign Exchange Market Talk | e12 : Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument DJDN000020161214ecce002y8  



 HDTrump's Rate Remarks Could Stir Unease at Fed -- Market Talk   WC1,396 words   PD14 December 2016   ET20:09   SNDow Jones Institutional News   SCDJDN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright © 2016, Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 
   LP14:09 ET - With the Fed statement out and including no surprises, attention will now shift to Trump's Twitter feed. He accused Yellen earlier this year of keeping rates low to help the outgoing administration and suggested low rates were creating a "false economy." Will he praise her for lifting rates now, or ramp up his accusations that she was holding off until after Election Day? The latter would be extraordinary: it's one thing for a candidate to weigh in on monetary policy, but presidents in recent years have steered clear of rate talk out of deference to the Fed and its independence. Trump has shown he has no qualms about breaking with tradition. That could make the Fed very nervous. (kate.davidson@wsj.com)
   TD14:09 ET - While the massive amount of political uncertainty facing the economy threatens to leave the forecasts dead on arrival, it's nevertheless noteworthy that while officials haven't changed their economic outlook much they do see around three rate rises next year, as opposed to two. It's unclear why they changed their view, and it may not even matter. The new political landscape could bring actions that could change what the Fed does with rates. And given that the forecasts the Fed released a year ago contained an aggressive course of increases that never came to pass, a similar fate could easily fall to these forecasts. (michael.derby@wsj.com)

14:08 ET - BP's decision to move the headquarters for its shale division to Denver is something of a homecoming for the business and its top executive. David Lawler, head of BP's shale operations, grew up in the Denver area and later attended the Colorado School of Mines. And via legacy companies, BP says it once had a "significant presence" in the area. BP said the move will put it closer to operations in the Rocky Mountain region, where BP is a big operator in the San Juan Basin. The company expects to open its new headquarters in early 2018 with at least 200 employees. (erin.ailworth@wsj.com; @ailworth)

14:08 ET - As the FOMC unanimously raises Fed funds a quarter point to 0.5-0.75%, this sole hike of 2016 comes a year after policy makers were largely projecting 4 such increases in 2016. But lackluster growth to start the year, financial and economic turbulence abroad and a dismal May employment report stalled plans. Meanwhile, a plurality is predicting 3 hikes for 2017, versus 2 in September. (kate.davidson@wsj.com)

14:07 ET - The Fed raised rates as expected but signaled three hikes in 2017 which drove a fresh bout of selling in bonds. Short-term debt are hitting the hardest, with the 2-year yield rising above 1.2% and reached the highest since August 2009. The long end benefits from flattening curve trade as investors migrate cash from short-dated notes. The 2-year yield was recently at 1.21% vs 1.166% before Fed. The 10-year yield was 2.481% vs 2.446% before Fed. (min.zeng@wsj.com)

14:06 ET - The Fed's decision to raise short-term interest rates, so well-advertised ahead of today's FOMC meeting, saw all officials come together to vote unanimously in favor of the action. That represented a shift from the last few meetings that brought high levels of formal dissent from those who were ready to boost rates. Whether the collective joining-of-hands can be sustained next year is unclear given the rotation of three bank presidents into voting roles, all of whom are new to the Fed. The new leader of the Minneapolis Fed has been very dovish, and he could be resistant to the rate rises officials are currently penciling in. (michael.derby@wsj.com)

14:05 ET - Federal Reserve officials expect the unemployment rate will fall further than they did in September, according to economic projections released Wednesday alongside the central bank's policy statement. Officials now see the unemployment rate ending 2016 at 4.7%. They anticipate the unemployment rate will drop to 4.5% by the end of 2017, where it will remain through the end of 2018 and 2019. They see the long-term unemployment rate settling at 4.8%, unchanged from September. At the same time, the Fed's inflation forecasts remain unchanged for 2017 and beyond. The new unemployment rate projections represent an acknowledgement by Fed officials that there might be slightly more slack in the labor market than they previously thought. The Labor Department reported earlier this month that the unemployment rate had fallen to 4.6% in November. (david.harrison@wsj.com)

14:05 ET - The dot plot shows most Fed policy makers anticipating either 2 or 3 quarter-point rate hikes next year. Four of 17 officials are projecting a half-point during the course of 2017 while 6 forecast 75 basis points worth. In September, just 3 of the 17 were anticipating no more than 2 quarter-point hikes through 2017, with another 7 projecting 75 basis points worth. Meanwhile, there 1 person which was projecting just a quarter-point between 3 months ago and 2019 is no more. Instead, the lowest rate forecast is for a quarter-point worth of increases from today's raised level. (kevin.kingsbury@wsj.com; @kevinkingsbury)

14:04 ET - Federal Reserve anticipate more short-term interest rate increases next year than they did in September, new economic projections show. Fed officials now see three rate increases in 2017, one more than they projected in September. The Fed penciled in three rate increases in 2018 and 2019, unchanged from September. Over the longer run, Fed officials now project short-term interest rates will settle at 3%, up from 2.9% in September. The move comes as president-elect Donald Trump has advocated an expansionary fiscal policy through tax cuts and higher spending levels. Fed officials, however, have studiously avoided speculating on the effect a Trump administration might have on their monetary policy. (david.harrison@wsj.com)

13:54 ET - With markets pricing in a near-certainty of a rate increase, one factor up in the air is whether the Fed today moves the cap on its repurchase agreements. Reverse repos involve the central bank taking in excess cash from banks and money-market funds and handing them Treasurys from its own portfolio as collateral overnight to invest in. The Fed has set the daily cap on reverse repos at $30B per counterparty. But with new regulations implemented for the $2.7T US money-market-fund industry only 2 months ago to the day, funds may reach that cap quickly, some analysts say. Whether to alter the cap is a decision which would have to be taken by the FOMC, not the New York Fed (which operates the program). (katy.burne@wsj.com)

13:44 ET - CFTC Chairman Timothy Massad is under fire for failing to complete curbs to speculation known as position limits. Three Democratic Senate lawmakers -- Sherrod Brown of Ohio, Dianne Feinstein of California and Maria Cantwell of Washington -- wrote to Massad to say they are "disturbed" by his "inability to guide the rule to completion." Last week, Massad re-proposed the restrictions for the third time since 2011, saying he didn't want to finalize a rule that a Republican administration next year would elect not to implement or enforce. Massad is expected to step down as chairman sometime in early 2017. (andrew.ackerman@wsj.com; @amacker)

13:41 ET - Jeff Holmstead, a top EPA official during the George W. Bush administration, says legal precedent will compel Trump's EPA to have a rule setting a carbon standard for power plants not yet built--contrary to his campaign promises. "As someone who sat at the agency, I think the advice they will get is that they really need to do a carbon standard for new coal-fired power plants," says Jeff Holmstead, who was a candidate to head the EPA under Trump. "But they can do one that's not unreasonable." (amy.harder@wsj.com; @AmyAHarder)

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

December 14, 2016 14:09 ET (19:09 GMT)
   COfed : Federal Reserve Board   NSe1116 : Employment/Unemployment | e1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Monetary Policy | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | gvote : Elections | gvote1 : National/Presidential Elections | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | namt : All Market Talk | ndjmt : Dow Jones Market Talk | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | nfiac : Fixed Income Asset Class News | nfxacb : Forex Asset Class Basic News | nfxacp : Forex Asset Class Premium News | nfxmt : Foreign Exchange Market Talk | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument DJDN000020161214ecce002yj  



 HDBullard Raises Rate View, Wants Fed to Consider Shrinking Balance Sheet -- 2nd Update   WC699 words   PD16 December 2016   ET20:33   SNDow Jones Institutional News   SCDJDN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright © 2016, Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 
   LP
By Michael S. Derby 

Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis President James Bullard said Friday the U.S. central bank should think seriously about shrinking its massive balance sheet starting next year, in an interview in which he also acknowledged moving his interest-rate outlook higher.
   TDThe big upward move in bond yields seen since the election indicates to him the need for a rate rise in 2017, Mr. Bullard told The Wall Street Journal Friday. Ahead of the Fed's policy meeting this week, where the central bank raised rates for the first time in a year, Mr. Bullard favored a single rate rise and then no additional action for the next few years.

"The contours of our outlook for the U.S. economy are the same" as they have been, despite the surprising outcome of the U.S. election in November, Mr. Bullard said. "We've probably got more upside risk than we had before, and we [the St. Louis Fed] did make the one adjustment to the policy rate, and we suggested that policy rate move could be made in 2017."

The shift in bond-market borrowing costs is the key issue in Mr. Bullard's rate outlook change. He said half of what has driven yields higher, and bond prices down, is a welcome increase in inflation expectations. The other half is an expectation of higher real returns, which Mr. Bullard considers a key driver of his monetary policy calculus.

"The real rate going up on the order of 25, 30 basis points, we did take that on board and we think that's important," Mr. Bullard said. But he also added the exact timing of the rate rise he would like to see isn't critical.

Mr. Bullard has been a voting member of the interest-rate-setting Federal Open Market Committee this year, but won't be in 2017. He holds one of the most dovish views among policy makers. In its official outlook, the Fed penciled in around three rate increases for next year if the economy performs as expected, from its estimate of two increases made at the September meeting.

Fed officials have acknowledged now is a time of heightened uncertainty for the outlook given the unexpected election of Donald Trump as president, joined with continued Republican control of Congress.

Mr. Bullard said if the right policies are put in place, getting the economy on a path toward sustained 3% to 4% growth was possible. But, as he has said before, it will take a while before any changes happen and it is unlikely there would be any significant impact on the economy in 2017.

Mr. Bullard, while favoring fewer rate increases than his colleagues, appears more willing to do something about the Fed's $4.5 trillion balance sheet. Fed officials say they want it to shrink at some point, but when remains unclear. A number of officials want rates a bit higher before they take on the issue, but Mr. Bullard is ready to start the conversation now.

The new year "possibly might be a good time to play that card" and start allowing maturing bond securities not to be replaced as they are now, he said. That would allow the Fed's holdings to shrink, which in turn would make financial conditions more restrictive of growth.

If Fed officials aren't ready to allow for outright shrinkage, they could shift what type of bonds are bought in their reinvestments, Mr. Bullard said. He said the Fed could skew purchases toward short-dated bonds as preparation for more active measures of balance-sheet contraction.

"My preference would be to allow some runoff in the balance sheet," he said, but added he doesn't think any moves on this front are imminent.

Even with the uncertainty the Fed faces, Mr. Bullard said the central bank is on good footing to respond to challenges. "Monetary policy is in a great position today," he said.

Write to Michael S. Derby at michael.derby@wsj.com

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

December 16, 2016 14:33 ET (19:33 GMT)
   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | ncmac : Commodities Asset Class News | nenac : Energy Asset Class News | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | nfiac : Fixed Income Asset Class News | nfxacb : Forex Asset Class Basic News | nfxacp : Forex Asset Class Premium News | ntop : Top Wire News | nttwn : Today's Top Wire News | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gvote : Elections | e12 : Monetary Policy | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | ndj : Dow Jones Top Stories | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | redit : Selection of Top Stories/Trends/Analysis   REusa : United States | usmo : Missouri | namz : North America | usc : Midwest U.S.   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument DJDN000020161216eccg00323  



 HDBullard Raises Rate View, Wants Fed to Consider Shrinking Balance Sheet   WC774 words   PD16 December 2016   ET20:10   SNDow Jones Institutional News   SCDJDN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright © 2016, Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 
   LPFederal Reserve Bank of St. Louis President James Bullard said Friday the U.S. central bank should think seriously about shrinking its massive balance sheet starting next year, in an interview in which he also acknowledged moving his interest-rate outlook higher.

The big upward move in bond yields seen since the election indicates to him the need for a rate rise in 2017, Mr. Bullard told The Wall Street Journal Friday. Ahead of the Fed’s policy meeting this week, where the central bank raised rates for the first time in a year, Mr. Bullard favored a single rate rise and then no additional action for the next few years.
   TD“The contours of our outlook for the U.S. economy are the same” as they have been, despite the surprising outcome of the U.S. election in November, Mr. Bullard said. “We’ve probably got more upside risk than we had before, and we [the St. Louis Fed] did make the one adjustment to the policy rate, and we suggested that policy rate move could be made in 2017.”

The shift in bond-market borrowing costs is the key issue in Mr. Bullard’s rate outlook change. He said half of what has driven yields higher, and bond prices down, is a welcome increase in inflation expectations. The other half is an expectation of higher real returns, which Mr. Bullard considers a key driver of his monetary policy calculus.

“The real rate going up on the order of 25, 30 basis points, we did take that on board and we think that’s important,” Mr. Bullard said. But he also added the exact timing of the rate rise he would like to see isn’t critical.

Mr. Bullard has been a voting member of the interest-rate-setting Federal Open Market Committee this year, but won’t be in 2017. He holds one of the most dovish views among policy makers. In its official outlook, the Fed penciled in around three rate increases for next year if the economy performs as expected, from its estimate of two increases made at the September meeting.

Fed officials have acknowledged now is a time of heightened uncertainty for the outlook given the unexpected election of Donald Trump as president, joined with continued Republican control of Congress.

Mr. Bullard said if the right policies are put in place, getting the economy on a path toward sustained 3% to 4% growth was possible. But, as he has said before, it will take a while before any changes happen and it is unlikely there would be any significant impact on the economy in 2017.

Mr. Bullard, while favoring fewer rate increases than his colleagues, appears more willing to do something about the Fed’s $4.5 trillion balance sheet. Fed officials say they want it to shrink at some point, but when remains unclear. A number of officials want rates a bit higher before they take on the issue, but Mr. Bullard is ready to start the conversation now.

The new year “possibly might be a good time to play that card” and start allowing maturing bond securities not to be replaced as they are now, he said. That would allow the Fed’s holdings to shrink, which in turn would make financial conditions more restrictive of growth.

If Fed officials aren’t ready to allow for outright shrinkage, they could shift what type of bonds are bought in their reinvestments, Mr. Bullard said. He said the Fed could skew purchases toward short-dated bonds as preparation for more active measures of balance-sheet contraction.

“My preference would be to allow some runoff in the balance sheet,” he said, but added he doesn’t think any moves on this front are imminent.

Mr. Bullard said one of the downside risks he sees to the outlook comes from recent ebullience in the stock market, and what could happen if investors overestimate how many Fed tightenings are likely.

“I’d be a little concerned that markets get carried away with how hawkish the committee might be,” Mr. Bullard said. “If the markets start to price in a really aggressive Fed, then at least the way I’m looking at it, that would be overdoing it.”

Even with the uncertainty the Fed faces, Mr. Bullard said the central bank is on good footing to respond to challenges. “Monetary policy is in a great position today,” he said.

Write to Michael S. Derby at michael.derby@wsj.com

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

December 16, 2016 14:10 ET (19:10 GMT)
   COfed : Federal Reserve Board   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | gpol : Domestic Politics | ntop : Top Wire News | nttwn : Today's Top Wire News | e12 : Monetary Policy | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | ndj : Dow Jones Top Stories | redit : Selection of Top Stories/Trends/Analysis   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument DJDN000020161216eccg002yi  



 HDBullard Raises Rate View, Wants Fed to Consider Shrinking Balance Sheet   WC774 words   PD16 December 2016   ET20:25   SNDow Jones Institutional News   SCDJDN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright © 2016, Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 
   LPFederal Reserve Bank of St. Louis President James Bullard said Friday the U.S. central bank should think seriously about shrinking its massive balance sheet starting next year, in an interview in which he also acknowledged moving his interest-rate outlook higher.

The big upward move in bond yields seen since the election indicates to him the need for a rate rise in 2017, Mr. Bullard told The Wall Street Journal Friday. Ahead of the Fed’s policy meeting this week, where the central bank raised rates for the first time in a year, Mr. Bullard favored a single rate rise and then no additional action for the next few years.
   TD“The contours of our outlook for the U.S. economy are the same” as they have been, despite the surprising outcome of the U.S. election in November, Mr. Bullard said. “We’ve probably got more upside risk than we had before, and we [the St. Louis Fed] did make the one adjustment to the policy rate, and we suggested that policy rate move could be made in 2017.”

The shift in bond-market borrowing costs is the key issue in Mr. Bullard’s rate outlook change. He said half of what has driven yields higher, and bond prices down, is a welcome increase in inflation expectations. The other half is an expectation of higher real returns, which Mr. Bullard considers a key driver of his monetary policy calculus.

“The real rate going up on the order of 25, 30 basis points, we did take that on board and we think that’s important,” Mr. Bullard said. But he also added the exact timing of the rate rise he would like to see isn’t critical.

Mr. Bullard has been a voting member of the interest-rate-setting Federal Open Market Committee this year, but won’t be in 2017. He holds one of the most dovish views among policy makers. In its official outlook, the Fed penciled in around three rate increases for next year if the economy performs as expected, from its estimate of two increases made at the September meeting.

Fed officials have acknowledged now is a time of heightened uncertainty for the outlook given the unexpected election of Donald Trump as president, joined with continued Republican control of Congress.

Mr. Bullard said if the right policies are put in place, getting the economy on a path toward sustained 3% to 4% growth was possible. But, as he has said before, it will take a while before any changes happen and it is unlikely there would be any significant impact on the economy in 2017.

Mr. Bullard, while favoring fewer rate increases than his colleagues, appears more willing to do something about the Fed’s $4.5 trillion balance sheet. Fed officials say they want it to shrink at some point, but when remains unclear. A number of officials want rates a bit higher before they take on the issue, but Mr. Bullard is ready to start the conversation now.

The new year “possibly might be a good time to play that card” and start allowing maturing bond securities not to be replaced as they are now, he said. That would allow the Fed’s holdings to shrink, which in turn would make financial conditions more restrictive of growth.

If Fed officials aren’t ready to allow for outright shrinkage, they could shift what type of bonds are bought in their reinvestments, Mr. Bullard said. He said the Fed could skew purchases toward short-dated bonds as preparation for more active measures of balance-sheet contraction.

“My preference would be to allow some runoff in the balance sheet,” he said, but added he doesn’t think any moves on this front are imminent.

Mr. Bullard said one of the downside risks he sees to the outlook comes from recent ebullience in the stock market, and what could happen if investors overestimate how many Fed tightenings are likely.

“I’d be a little concerned that markets get carried away with how hawkish the committee might be,” Mr. Bullard said. “If the markets start to price in a really aggressive Fed, then at least the way I’m looking at it, that would be overdoing it.”

Even with the uncertainty the Fed faces, Mr. Bullard said the central bank is on good footing to respond to challenges. “Monetary policy is in a great position today,” he said.

Write to Michael S. Derby at michael.derby@wsj.com

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

December 16, 2016 14:25 ET (19:25 GMT)
   COfed : Federal Reserve Board   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | gpol : Domestic Politics | ntop : Top Wire News | nttwn : Today's Top Wire News | e12 : Monetary Policy | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | ndj : Dow Jones Top Stories | redit : Selection of Top Stories/Trends/Analysis   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument DJDN000020161216eccg002z6  


 HDFed Lifts Rates, Signals More Increases Next Year -- Update   BYBy Harriet Torry    WC1,390 words   PD14 December 2016   ET22:23   SNDow Jones Institutional News   SCDJDN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright © 2016, Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 
   LPWASHINGTON -- The Federal Reserve said Wednesday it would raise its benchmark short-term interest rate, and expects to lift it more quickly than previously projected in 2017 amid signs of low unemployment, firming inflation and a pickup in economic growth.

"Our decision to raise rates should certainly be understood as a reflection of the confidence we have in the progress the economy has made" and that it is expected to make, Fed Chairwoman Janet Yellen said at a press conference in Washington.
   TDFed officials said they would nudge up the federal-funds rate by a quarter percentage point on Thursday, to between 0.50% and 0.75%, a move that could cause other household and business borrowing costs to rise as well.

They also indicated they see a brightening economic outlook and expect to raise short-term rates next year by another 0.75 percentage point -- likely in three quarter-point moves.

That's a bit more than the two increases in 2017 the policy makers anticipated in September. The shift reflects their individual views on factors including the unemployment rate, which recently hit a nine-year low, and the prospect of new tax cuts and government spending increases after President-elect Donald Trump takes office, Ms. Yellen said.

The Fed said in a statement after its two-day meeting that the rate increase came "in view of realized and expected labor-market conditions and inflation," a sign officials see the labor market as close to, or at, full employment -- the lowest level unemployment can reach without triggering too much inflation.

The Fed continues to expect "gradual" rate increases, the statement said, although forecasts showed officials see rates rising faster next year than previously thought.

Officials expect the median fed-funds rate to be 1.4% by the end of 2017, according to the projection of 17 officials. According to their forecast, the fed-funds rate would reach 2.1% at the end of 2018 and 2.9% in 2019. That implies three quarter-percentage-point interest-rate increases a year in each of the next three years or nine increases in total. That is a faster pace than officials projected in September, when they only saw two rate increases next year.

The statement's message centered on a strong labor market and repeated its view that "near-term risks to the economic outlook appear roughly balanced." The Fed said it continues to closely monitor inflation indicators and global economic and financial developments.

When the Fed moves next will depend on various factors. Mr. Trump's election victory has boosted market expectations that the next administration will cut taxes and increase spending, which could spur growth and inflation. This has pushed major U.S. stock indexes to record highs since Election Day. Such expectations also sent the yield on the 10-year Treasury note above 2.5% for the first time in two years on Monday.

Fed officials judge the economy has made enough progress to warrant a further step on the path it started a year ago when it began a slow retreat from easy money. They raised the fed-funds rate by a quarter percentage point last December after holding it near zero for seven years during the financial crisis, recession and fitful economic recovery.

The Fed's decision to raise rates cements the U.S. economy's status as an outlier among the world's largest economies. So far this year the European Central Bank, the Bank of England, the Bank of Japan and central banks in Brazil, South Korea and India have all cut rates -- some into negative territory -- to fuel stronger inflation and growth.

Officials' projections for the coming years were generally rosier than their last batch in September, on a number of fronts. They expect inflation to rise from 1.5% in 2016 to 1.9% in 2017 and to its target of 2% in 2018.

They saw the jobless rate falling to 4.5% next year and remaining there through 2019.

The Fed welcomed recent signs of further improvement in the labor market. The jobless rate fell to 4.6% in November, a nine-year low.

"Job gains have been solid in recent months and the unemployment rate has declined," the Fed said.

Officials predicted the economy would expand at a median annual pace of 1.9% this year and 2.1% in 2017, a slight improvement from September, when officials last submitted forecasts. The shift could reflect a recent stream of better economic data, or the fiscal outlook.

Fed Chairwoman Janet Yellen won a unanimous vote. Ms. Yellen had faced dissent at five out of eight meetings this year, a sign of divisions within the Fed over the path of monetary policy.

The central bank began this year expecting to nudge rates up four times in quarter-percentage-point increments. It didn't move until now because of recurrent worries about growth, weak inflation, hiring and turbulence overseas -- concerns that have since dissipated.

Mr. Trump's election last month has boosted expectations that the next administration will cut taxes and increase spending, potentially jolting the U.S. economy out of a weak growth path since the financial crisis.

That has big implications for the Fed. The fiscal stimulus Mr. Trump has proposed could boost demand and send inflation higher.

The Fed has been telegraphing the rate increase for months. In September, the central bank said the case for an increase had strengthened but found the economy had "a bit more running room," Ms. Yellen said. In mid-November testimony to Congress, Ms. Yellen said a rate increase was possible "relatively soon" due to the economy's "very good" progress on job creation and inflation.

Whether other interest rates -- such as on savings accounts, mortgages, car loans and corporate loans -- rise as well depends on how investors, businesses and households respond.

In the past, Fed rate increases usually rippled through the economy, causing other borrowing costs to rise too. But the market doesn't always follow the Fed's lead. Between 2004 and 2006, when the Fed raised its benchmark short-term rate 4.25 percentage points, yields on 10-year U.S. Treasury notes and corporate bonds and mortgage rates barely budged because of strong global appetite for U.S. securities.

Ahead of the Fed's announcement, John Caldwell, general manager of Galeana's Van Dyke Dodge in Warren, Mich., said he expects little impact on car sales from a quarter-percentage-point rate rise.

"If our average loan of $25,000 has a term of six years, a quarter-point only adds $190," he said. "In the big picture it's very small."

Signs that the Fed may become more aggressive on raising rates "could put upward pressure on mortgage rates," said Michael Fratantoni, chief economist at the Mortgage Bankers Association. The December rate increase had been fully priced in by markets ahead of Wednesday's announcement, he said, but signs of the future path of rates has the impact to shift the market.

Mortgage rates have spiked since the election and hit a 2016 high last week, according to Freddie Mac. A 30-year fixed-rate mortgage averaged 4.13% for the week ending Thursday, compared with 3.95% this time a year ago.

The Fed's rate increase goes into effect Thursday. The central bank also raised the rate it charges on emergency loans, known as the discount rate, by a quarter percentage point to 1.25%.

The increase in interest rates will come as some relief to savers, who have seen returns on deposits languish at rock-bottom levels for years. Other businesses, such as mortgage brokers, expect higher rates to have a negative impact after years of ultralow borrowing costs.

Low rates have been "very good" for business, according to Eduard Van Loenen, president of First Portland Mortgage Corp. in Portland, Maine.

"We've had a nice long ride here, since probably the early 1990s," he said, adding the refinancing side of his business will suffer due to the rate increase, because fewer people will find it worthwhile to renegotiate their mortgages.

Write to Harriet Torry at harriet.torry@wsj.com

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

December 14, 2016 16:23 ET (21:23 GMT)
   COeurcb : European Central Bank | fed : Federal Reserve Board   NSe1116 : Employment/Unemployment | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | gvbod : Government Bodies | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | ncmac : Commodities Asset Class News | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | nfiac : Fixed Income Asset Class News | nfxacb : Forex Asset Class Basic News | nfxacp : Forex Asset Class Premium News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Monetary Policy | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter   REeurz : Europe | usa : United States | namz : North America   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument DJDN000020161214ecce003sk  



 HDGold Declines on Prospect of Rate Increases   BYBy Ed Ballard    WC395 words   PD15 December 2016   ET12:29   SNDow Jones Institutional News   SCDJDN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright © 2016, Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 
   LPLONDON--Gold extended its decline Thursday as markets adjusted to the prospect of more interest-rate hikes next year in the wake of the U.S. Federal Reserve's meeting.

The precious metal shed 0.4% to $1,131.75 a troy ounce in morning trade in London, on course for its lowest close since Feb. 2.
   TDDavid Govett, head of precious metals at brokerage Marex Spectron, said continued strength in the U.S. dollar will likely continue to weigh on gold into 2017.

"As long as the dollar stays firm then this will be the way of the world for the time being," he wrote in a note to clients.

The dollar continued to gain on Thursday after the Fed's meeting. The WSJ dollar index, which tracks the greenback against a basket of currencies, was up 0.36% at 92.70, having surged 1.3% Wednesday.

A rising dollar is bearish for gold, as the metal is priced in the U.S. currency and becomes more expensive for foreign buyers when the dollar appreciates.

"[Wednesday's rate-hike] in itself would not have pushed the price lower as that was already priced in, however the language used was more hawkish than perhaps previously thought," Mr. Govett said.

As well as lifting their short-term interest rate target, Fed officials signaled rates would rise at a faster pace than previously projected, with three hikes now expected for 2017, rather than two.

The prospect of higher rates increases the returns of yield-bearing assets and tend to damp demand for gold. Kit Juckes, a macro strategist at Société Générale, Thursday noted that gold's decline in recent weeks has closely tracked a pickup in the inflation-adjusted yield of U.S. Treasurys.

Investors withdrew money from exchange-traded funds that buy gold for the 25th consecutive day Wednesday. Outflows accounted for nearly 22 tons of gold, the most for a single session since July 2013, noted analysts at Commerzbank.

In other precious metals markets, silver was down 0.84% at $16.56 an ounce, palladium up 0.45% at $726 an ounce, and platinum up 0.05% at $924.45 an ounce.

Write to Ed Ballard at ed.ballard@wsj.com

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

December 15, 2016 06:29 ET (11:29 GMT)
   COfed : Federal Reserve Board   NSmpcsmt : Precious Metals Markets | e1202 : Interest Rates | m1421 : Gold Markets | mplat : Platinum/Palladium Markets | ecat : Economic News | gvbod : Government Bodies | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncmac : Commodities Asset Class News | nenac : Energy Asset Class News | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | nfiac : Fixed Income Asset Class News | nfxacb : Forex Asset Class Basic News | nfxacp : Forex Asset Class Premium News | e12 : Monetary Policy | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | m14 : Commodity Markets | m142 : Metals Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter   REuk : United Kingdom | eland : England | usa : United States | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument DJDN000020161215eccf001da  



 HDWhat to Watch at the Fed Meeting   BYBy Harriet Torry    WC777 words   PD14 December 2016   ET11:14   SNDow Jones Institutional News   SCDJDN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright © 2016, Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 
   LPFederal Reserve officials are likely to raise short-term interest rates when their two-day meeting concludes Wednesday, the only increase this year and just the second since June 2006. But what will they signal for the path of rates in 2017 and beyond? This will be the Fed's first policy meeting since the election of Donald Trump, who has pledged tax cuts and new government spending -- policies that could affect the Fed's outlook for inflation and interest rates over time. The central bank releases its policy statement and economic and interest-rate projections at 2 p.m. EST Wednesday, and Chairwoman Janet Yellen holds a press conference at 2:30 p.m. Here are five things to watch for.

Plotting the Dots
   TDOfficials' projections for their benchmark federal-funds rate in the quarterly chart known as the "dot plot" will be scrutinized for clues about where rates could be heading next year. At their September meeting, officials implied they expected two quarter-percentage-point rate increases in 2017. But that was before Mr. Trump's victory. Economists surveyed by The Wall Street Journal last week see the pace of Fed interest-rate increases picking up in the coming years for a variety of reasons. Several Fed officials, however, have said they won't change their outlook until they see what fiscal policies are enacted, suggesting their dots won't move much this week.

Another thing to watch in the dot plot is officials' long-term expectation for the fed-funds rate. The median of that projection fell to 2.9% in September from 3.50% a year ago, reflecting the belief that the natural rate of interest -- the inflation-adjusted overnight rate that is consistent with the economy operating at full potential without overheating -- has fallen in the years since the financial crisis. If it keeps declining, that would be a sign of Fed pessimism about the potential for growth in productivity and economic output.

Full Employment

The summary of economic projections will be examined for details of Fed officials' predictions for the unemployment rate at the end of 2017, which could be lower than their September prediction of 4.6%, since that rate was reached last month.

A question facing Fed officials now is: What is full employment -- the lowest level the jobless rate can fall to without pushing inflation higher -- and are we there yet? Unlike inflation, for which the Fed and several other global central banks have set a 2% target, there is no fixed goal for maximum employment. If officials judge the economy has reached full employment, that could suggest a quicker pace of rate increases ahead to keep inflation in check.

Ms. Yellen told Congress in November that the economy has had "more room to run" than officials had anticipated, indicating she wasn't worried the economy was at risk of overheating.

Wording the Statement

If the Fed does raise rates, it might tweak its policy statement slightly, compared with the one released in November, including dropping language saying the case for a rate increase had "continued to strengthen." Officials' recent comments suggest they are likely to repeat their expectation of "gradual" rate increases. Fed officials often include a line in their statement assessing the risks to their economic outlook. They said in November that the near-term risks to the outlook were "roughly balanced," and could repeat that Wednesday.

Fiscal Policy Implications

During her postmeeting press conference, Ms. Yellen is likely to field questions about the implications of expansionary tax and spending policies for the path of interest rates. In her comments to Congress in November, she said there is "a great deal of uncertainty" surrounding the fiscal outlook. One of her close allies, New York Fed President William Dudley, said last week that the tightening of financial conditions since the election in expectation of tighter Fed policy "seems broadly appropriate," although he added that "it is premature to reach firm conclusions about what will likely occur."

Watch for Dissents

Ms. Yellen faced dissent at five out of seven meetings this year, each time from officials who wanted to push rates higher. If the Fed raises rates, Ms. Yellen might get dissent from policy makers with the opposite concern -- those who favor keeping rates low. If governor Lael Brainard, an advocate of low rates, were to dissent, she would become the first governor to vote against a rate decision since Mark Olson in September 2005.

Write to Harriet Torry at harriet.torry@wsj.com

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

December 14, 2016 05:14 ET (10:14 GMT)
   COfed : Federal Reserve Board   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services   NSe1116 : Employment/Unemployment | e1202 : Interest Rates | e211 : Government Budget/Taxation | ecat : Economic News | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | ncmac : Commodities Asset Class News | nenac : Energy Asset Class News | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | nfiac : Fixed Income Asset Class News | nfxacb : Forex Asset Class Basic News | nfxacp : Forex Asset Class Premium News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Monetary Policy | e21 : Government Finance | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument DJDN000020161214ecce000zh  



 SEMarkets   HDGold Gains As Investors Exit Bearish Bets; Thursday decline prompts investors to look for bargains   BYBy Katherine Dunn and Stephanie Yang    WC282 words   PD16 December 2016   ET16:33   SNThe Wall Street Journal Online   SCWSJO   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
   LPGold prices bounced from a 10-month low Friday, as the decline prompted investors to cover short positions and look for bargains.

Gold for February delivery was recently up 0.3% at $1,133.10 a troy ounce on the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange.
   TDThe precious metal fell to the lowest level since February on Thursday, after the Federal Reserve announced its decision to raise interest rates by a quarter of a percentage point.

As the market came to expect an interest-rate increase at the central bank's December meeting, investors placed more bearish bets on gold, said George Gero, managing director at RBC Wealth Management.

"Basically what we have is traders standing aside, taking positions off for the weekend," Mr. Gero said.

Gold doesn't pay interest, unlike many other investments, and so demand typically falters when rates rise and other instruments become more attractive. While analysts warned ahead of the rate increase that the impact on gold was largely priced into the market, the Fed also upped expectations for further rate increases in 2017.

Anticipation of three rate increases in the coming year, rather than two, could increase pressure on the metal, said Joni Teves, a strategist at UBS.

"In order for gold to recover, there needs to be a catalyst for markets to pare back current optimism and retrace the recent moves in [interest] rates and the U.S. dollar," Ms. Teves said.

Write to Katherine Dunn at Katherine.Dunn@wsj.com and Stephanie Yang at stephanie.yang@wsj.com
   INi2112 : Silver Ore Mining | i22 : Primary Metals | i22472 : Precious Metals | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services | iinv : Investing/Securities | i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i224 : Non-ferrous Metals | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | m1421 : Gold Markets | e12 : Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gvbod : Government Bodies | m14 : Commodity Markets | m142 : Metals Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mpcsmt : Precious Metals Markets | mplat : Platinum/Palladium Markets | msilv : Silver Markets | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter   REnamz : North America | usa : United States | usny : New York State | use : Northeast U.S.   IPC1090 | 61035 | 61045 | 82270 | 82333 | G/FED | I/BKS | I/BNK | I/GLD | I/IAV | I/PPM | M/FCL | N/CMD | N/CMR | N/DJCS | N/DJN | N/EMP | N/EMR | N/GENI | N/GPC | N/IEN | N/MET | N/MKT | N/NMX | N/NRG | N/OSCM | N/OSFF | N/OSFR | N/OSME | N/OSOV | N/PCS | N/PLM | N/SVR | N/WER | O/DJCS | R/NME | R/NY | R/US | RY | RY.T   IPDGOLD | GOLD PRICE | PRECIOUS METALS | Teves, Joni | SYND | WSJ-PRO-WSJ.com | Commodities | WSJ.com   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument WSJO000020161216eccg005mt  



 HDUPDATE 1-Mexican central bank aggressively hikes rates after peso slump   WC525 words   PD15 December 2016   ET21:08   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2016 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved. 
   LP(Updates with details from statement, background)

By Gabriel Stargardter and Michael O'Boyle
   TDMEXICO CITY, Dec 15 (Reuters) - Mexico's central bank on Thursday aggressively hiked its benchmark interest rate in a bid to cool quickening inflation after the peso fell to record lows in the wake of Donald Trump's Nov. 8 U.S. election victory.

The Banco de Mexico hiked its main interest rate by 50 basis points to 5.75 percent, more than the median forecast by a Reuters poll of economists, taking it to its highest level since April 2009.

The central bank has raised rates five times this year, lifting borrowing costs by a cumulative 250 basis points. Policymakers on Thursday said the hikes would help push the rising inflation trend back down by 2018.

The peso reversed losses on the announcement, gaining around 0.25 percent to 20.42 pesos per dollar.

The move came a day after the U.S. Federal Reserve raised interest rates by a quarter point and signaled a faster pace of increases in 2017 as the Trump administration takes over with promises to boost growth through tax cuts, spending and deregulation.

The Mexican central bank's statement on Thursday was permeated with references to the impact of Trump's victory, which has upended expectations for Mexico's economy.

"The environment facing the national economy right now is characterized by doubt related ... to the possibility that in the United States they pass economic policies that hamper trade and investment," the Mexican central bank said.

It added that the U.S. election result had increased the risks of the United States adopting policies that could negatively impact the bilateral relationship with Mexico.

It also said it believed the balance of risks to both growth and inflation had deteriorated further, adding that inflation would rise close to the upper end of the central bank's 4 percent limit by the end of 2017. In 2018, it said, inflation would start to trend back toward its 3 percent target.

Last week, data showed Mexico's annual inflation in November reached its highest level in two years.

But the central bank flagged one positive development, noting the favorable results of this month's deep-water oil tender demonstrated that the government's structural reforms, particularly those in the energy sector, could generate good results.

The peso slid to a record low in the wake of Trump's victory, posting its biggest two-day loss since a 1995 devaluation.

The U.S. Republican candidate had threatened during the election campaign to unwind a free trade deal with Mexico and block the money sent home by Mexican immigrants to pressure the country to pay for a border wall.

"In the (bank's) statement, we're starting to see the difference between Donald Trump the candidate and Donald Trump the president-elect," said Alfonso Esparza, a currency strategist at Oanda in Toronto. "There's less doubt, but still the risk that his campaign promises become reality." (Reporting by Gabriel Stargardter; Editing by Alistair Bell and Paul Simao) 
   RFReleased: 2016-12-15T21:08:08.000Z   CObcmeks : Banco de Mexico | fed : Federal Reserve Board   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | gvote : Elections | ecat : Economic News | e12 : Monetary Policy | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics   REmex : Mexico | usa : United States | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | lamz : Latin America | namz : North America   IPCSERVICE:ABN | SERVICE:D | SERVICE:M | SERVICE:NAT | SERVICE:RNP | SERVICE:DNP | SERVICE:PTD | SERVICE:C | SERVICE:E | SERVICE:O | SERVICE:U | SERVICE:MTL | SERVICE:GRO | SERVICE:SOF | SERVICE:OIL | SERVICE:FUN | LANG:en | f | MCE | ECON | ECI | EMRG | LATAM | CEN | FED | INT | MX | PLCY | AMERS | INFL | POL | CAMER | NAMER | GEN | ECO | MEX | BACT | PIA | OVR | OEC   IPDBusiness | Economy | Politics | Latin America | Central America | MEXICO-ECONOMY/RATES (UPDATE 1) | MEXICO | RATES (UPDATE 1)   PUBThomson Reuters (Markets) LLC   ANDocument LBA0000020161215eccf012qj  



 HDWall Street to Fed: Not so fast; dealers see only two hikes in 2017 - Reuters Poll   WC642 words   PD15 December 2016   ET01:43   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2016 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved. 
   LPNEW YORK (Reuters) - Wall Street's top banks were not immediately swayed Wednesday by signals from the Federal Reserve that the pace of interest rate hikes could pick up significantly next year, sticking instead to a view that the U.S. central bank will lift borrowing costs no more than twice in 2017, according to a Reuters poll.

The poll of primary dealers - the 23 banks that do business directly with the Fed - also showed that a majority of the participants expect U.S. President-elect Donald Trump's economic plans to boost business investment, a notably absent factor in the current economic expansion.
   TDThe Fed on Wednesday raised interest rates by a quarter point, only its second rate hike since the Great Recession and a year since the previous increase. Policy makers signaled as many as three increases in 2017 as the Trump administration takes over with promises to boost growth through tax cuts, spending and deregulation.

The Fed's decision, regarded as a virtual certainty by financial markets in the wake of a string of generally strong economic reports, raised the target federal funds rate 25 basis points to between 0.50 percent and 0.75 percent.

"It's a little bit more hawkish than expected. They moved up the dots a little bit more aggressively in the near term," said Aaron Kohli, interest rate strategist at BMO Capital Markets, in New York.

Short-term U.S. interest rates futures implied traders saw a 78 percent chance the Fed would raise interest rates at least once by June 2017, compared with a 63 percent chance late on Tuesday, according to CME Group's FedWatch.

Futures signaled that traders believe it was basically a coin flip the Fed would increase rates at least three times a year from now.

Wall Street banks, however, were not raising their own estimates for future hikes just yet, and none of them see another increase before the second quarter of 2017.

The 18 primary dealers who participated in the poll forecast the federal funds rate midpoint at the end of the second quarter to rise to 0.88 percent and to 1.13 percent by year end. That forecast was unchanged from a Reuters poll conducted in early October and compares with the FOMC's own projection of 1.13 percent.

"This (statement) feels like we are going to get some more rate hikes next year with possible fiscal stimulus coming down the pipe. But we just don't know what they are. We have no details," said Justin Lederer, Treasury strategist at Cantor Fitzgerald in New York.

The pace of rate hikes could accelerate next year, with a median forecast among 16 respondents for the rate to reach 1.76 percent by the end of 2018.

Poll participants did, however, estimate close to a 50 percent chance that the pace of hikes from here could proceed at a faster rate than currently anticipated.

Turning to the implementation of Trump's economic agenda, 12 of 15 dealers see his still-to-be-defined stimulus plans as likely to boost or significantly boost U.S. business investment.

Trump's still-evolving trade policies, meanwhile, stand out as the greatest risk to the outlook in the eyes of the primary dealers. Nine of 17 said they viewed trade policy as a potential headwind, while five cited fiscal policy as the biggest risk and another two said a stronger dollar could up-end the outlook.

For a related table on the poll results click

(Reporting by Saqib Ahmed, Trevor Hunnicutt, Richard Leong, Dion Rabouin and Karen Brettell in New York, Anu Bararia in Bengaluru; Writing by Saqib Ahmed; Editing by Dan Burns and Leslie Adler) 
   RFReleased: 2016-12-15T00:43:47.000Z   COfed : Federal Reserve Board   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | e12 : Monetary Policy | nsur : Surveys/Polls | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCSERVICE:ORTAO | SERVICE:OUSBSM | LANG:en-US | a | f | AGN | APOLL | BACT | CEN | DBT | ECI | ECO | ECON | FED | GVD | INFL | INT | JOB | LEN | MCE | MMT | MPLT | MTG | NEWS1 | PIA | PLCY | POL | REP | RPOLL | USA | WASH   IPDBusiness | Economy | Politics | US | Bangalore | India | US-USA-FED-POLL | USA | FED | POLL   PUBThomson Reuters (Markets) LLC   ANDocument LBA0000020161215eccf0012x  



 HDRising rents lift U.S. inflation; labor market tightens   WC941 words   PD15 December 2016   ET18:26   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2016 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved. 
   LPWASHINGTON (Reuters) - Rising rents lifted underlying U.S. inflation in November, pointing to a steady build-up of price pressures in the economy that could support more interest rate increases from the Federal Reserve next year.

The prospects of further monetary policy tightening in 2017 were also bolstered by other data on Thursday showing a drop in the number of Americans filing for unemployment aid last week.
   TDThe Fed raised interest rates on Wednesday for the second time since the 2007-2009 financial crisis and forecast three rate hikes in 2017. In addition to rising oil prices and a tight job market, inflation is likely to get a boost from U.S. President-elect Donald Trump's proposed expansionary fiscal policy agenda.

"Inflation is moving in the right direction, all the conditions for stronger inflation are in place. I don't think the Fed is behind the curve. We expect the next rate increase in March," said Ryan Sweet, senior economist at Moody's Analytics in Westchester, Pennsylvania.

The Labor Department said its Consumer Price Index excluding volatile food and energy costs rose 0.2 percent last month after edging up 0.1 percent in October. Rents accounted for most of the increase in the so-called core CPI last month.

The core CPI advanced 2.1 percent in the 12 months through November after a similar gain in October. The overall CPI rose 0.2 percent as gasoline price increases slowed and food costs remained soft. With oil prices hovering around $50 per barrel, gasoline prices are likely to push higher.

The overall CPI shot up 0.4 percent in October. In the 12 months through November, the CPI increased 1.7 percent, the biggest year-on-year gain since October 2014. It rose 1.6 percent in the year to October.

The Fed has a 2 percent inflation target and tracks an inflation measure which is currently at 1.7 percent.

In raising its benchmark overnight interest rate by 25 basis points to a range of 0.50 percent to 0.75 percent, the U.S. central bank on Wednesday noted that inflation had increased since "earlier this year" and said it expected it to rise to its target "over the next couple of years."

Fed Chair Janet Yellen said the rate hike was "a vote of confidence in the economy."

The incoming Trump administration plans to boost infrastructure spending and cut taxes to foster a faster pace of economic growth. The fiscal stimulus, however, will come at a time when the economy is expected to be at full employment.

"Inflation is warming up and there will only be more price pressures if Trump and his advisors can pump up the volume on economic growth," said Chris Rupkey, chief economist at MUFG Union Bank in New York.

In a second report, the Labor Department said initial claims for state unemployment benefits fell 4,000 to a seasonally adjusted 254,000 for the week ended Dec. 10. It was the 93rd straight week that claims were below 300,000, a threshold associated with a healthy labor market. That is the longest stretch since 1970, when the labor market was much smaller.

The dollar <.DXY> soared to a 14-year high against a basket of currencies as the data backed the Fed's hawkish stance. Prices for U.S. government bonds fell, with the yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note hitting more than a two-year high. Stocks on Wall Street were trading higher.

UPBEAT DATA

Other reports on Thursday also struck a positive note, with upbeat assessments on manufacturing and the housing market.

The National Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo Housing Market Index, a measure of homebuilder confidence, surged this month to its highest level since July 2005. Builders anticipated strong sales despite rising mortgage rates.

Separately, the New York Fed said factory activity expanded in New York State in December, driven by a surge in new orders.

The Philadelphia Fed also reported a pickup in manufacturing in the mid-Atlantic region this month. Both regional Fed surveys showed manufacturers reporting they were paying higher prices for inputs. In New York State, factories were also increasing prices for their goods.

Rising input costs and prices for manufactured goods should feed through to higher inflation over time.

Last month, gasoline prices rose 2.7 percent after jumping 7.0 percent in October. Housing continued its upward march in November, with rents increasing 0.3 percent last month. Owners' equivalent rent of primary residence also gained 0.3 percent after a similar rise in October.

There were increases in the prices of a range of other goods and services last month including used cars and trucks, which rose for the first time since February. The cost of motor vehicle insurance increased 1.0 percent.

But consumers got some relief. Food prices were unchanged for a fifth straight month and food consumed at home declined for a seventh consecutive month. While the cost of doctor visits increased 0.6 percent, prices for prescription medicine fell 0.6 percent and the cost of hospital services slipped 0.1 percent.

Apparel prices also fell, reversing October's increase. Airline fares declined for a second straight month and prices for new motor vehicles were down.

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

U.S. jobless claims interactive http://tmsnrt.rs/2gbkbf2

U.S. inflation (CPI interactive) http://tmsnrt.rs/1N6BwRs

Homebuilder sentiment interactive (NAHB) http://tmsnrt.rs/2g1LN6w

New York manufacturing graphic http://tmsnrt.rs/2ehLgbZ

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

(Reporting by Lucia Mutikani; Editing by Paul Simao) 
   RFReleased: 2016-12-15T17:26:16.000Z   COfed : Federal Reserve Board   INi1 : Energy   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | c314 : Pricing | m143 : Energy Markets | mntdbt : National Government Debt/Bond Markets | e1103 : Inflation/Prices | e1116 : Employment/Unemployment | e12 : Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | ntop : Top Wire News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | reqren : Suggested Reading   Energy | c31 : Marketing/Markets | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m14 : Commodity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | redit : Selection of Top Stories/Trends/Analysis | reqr : Suggested Reading   Industry News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCSERVICE:ORTAO | SERVICE:OUSBSM | SERVICE:OUS12 | SERVICE:OUSTPM | SERVICE:RTRFLN | LANG:en-US | a | f | CEN | ECI | ECON | FED | INFL | INT | IPR | JOB | LEN | MCE | MPLT | MTGFX | NEWS1 | PIA | PXP | REP | USA | WASH   IPDBusiness | Economy | Top News | US | Bangalore | India | US-USA-ECONOMY-JOBLESS | USA | JOBLESS   PUBThomson Reuters (Markets) LLC   ANDocument LBA0000020161215eccf00o5h  

 Page 1 of 1     © 2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.


 

 Page 1     © 2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.

