 


 HDThe  interest rate  dog that didn’t bark   BYMartin Sandbu    WC881 words   PD23 March 2018   ET14:07   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All rights reserved. Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the web. 
   LPWhen the Federal Reserve lifted interest rates by a quarter point on Wednesday, its first policy decision on new chair Jay Powell’s watch surprised nobody. Everyone had expected the rise, and everyone had largely expected Powell to stay the course the Fed’s monetary policymakers had carefully staked out.

Much like Sherlock Holmes’s dog that didn’t bark, it is the lack of change that should be seen as surprising. Since the Fed’s December meeting, the US government has enacted not just one, but two highly stimulative acts of fiscal legislation. The December tax reform created a fiscal stimulus worth 0.7 per cent of gross domestic product in both 2018 and 2019, calculated as the additional increase in the (non-interest-related) deficit caused by the legislation, according to the Congressional Budget Office. On top comes the new spending authorisation passed in February.
   TDThis is a big and sudden fiscal stimulus. It was far from clear in December what form it would take or how stimulative it would be. The fact that Fed policy has hardly changed is therefore a puzzle in need of an explanation. As the chart below shows, the median projection of Fed policymakers for the policy rate in 2018 did not change at all; those for the end of 2019 and 2020 nudged up a notch. That’s long after the fiscal stimulus hits the economy — “ahead of the curve” this is not.

And it’s not as if the Fed doesn’t think the economy will respond. Its projections of growth and unemployment have both improved markedly. Meanwhile, as John Authers highlights, the Fed’s inflation prediction also remains unchanged, “despite more bullish predictions for both employment and economic growth”.

How to explain that a monetary policy deemed appropriate four months ago is still seen as such after these big changes? One answer could be that the Fed thinks its marginally tighter policy path is enough to counterbalance the fiscal stimulus (even if the median projection didn’t change much, many individual interest rate-setters tightened their forecast). But Powell himself went out of his way in his testimony to make people focus only on the March decision, not on the future path. And according to the Fed’s own projections for the real economy, its policy will not in fact undo the expansionary effects added since December.

It could instead be that the Fed thinks the fiscal changes will improve the economy’s capacity to grow by as much as actual growth — thus removing the need for compensatory tightening at the hands of the central bank. Powell made nods to the incentives for investment and greater labour participation due to lower tax rates. But they were no more than nods, and in any case this speculation is too uncertain to base monetary policy on.

A better-founded view is that the US economy is still well below its full-employment capacity — as suggested by the prime-age employment rate, which is still below its 2000 peak, if not by the ultra-low unemployment rate. If so, there is no need for the Fed to tighten just because fiscal policy adds a strong boost to demand; it is welcome that fiscal policy accelerates the economy’s catch-up with its potential. But the inconvenient truth implied by that is that before the fiscal stimulus was enacted, the Fed’s policy was significantly too tight.

In the immediate term, meanwhile, the economy has actually come to seem less rather than more buoyant. The Fed’s own statement made one significant change to its assessment of the economy — labelling household spending and investment growth rates “moderate” rather than “solid”, as it did in January. And the Atlanta Fed’s real-time tracker of economic data suggests GDP has slowed to a crawl, with an estimated contemporaneous annualised growth rate of 1.8 per cent, down from a (admittedly completely unsustainable) 5.4 spike at the start of February.

That suggests other forces may be chilling aggregate demand just as government spending and tax cuts are about to stimulate it. If so, holding fire is an even more appropriate monetary response. Much of the market reaction suggests that investors expect the central bank to have to pull back even further. Futures markets pricing implies less tightening than pencilled in by the Fed, and the dollar dropped after the Wednesday statement.

The Fed has been wrong on monetary policy twice before since the crisis. It consistently over-predicted its own ability to start a tightening cycle, while markets rightly thought rates would stay lower for longer. And, as I have argued here, if the current policy stance is correct, then it was far too tight until very recently. We should not rule out a third mistake: that capacity is greater and demand will be weaker than the Fed now foresees. If so, even the present course may prove uncomfortably tight.

Other readables

* The European Council has adopted guidelines for the negotiations of a new economic relationship with the UK after Brexit.

* It is bound to be a thoughtful conversation when FT Alphaville’s Matthew Klein interviews Marcel Fratzscher, scourge of lazy optimism about the German economy.
   COfed : Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System   NSe12 : Monetary Policy | e1101 : Economic Growth/Recession | e1202 : Interest Rates | gpol : Domestic Politics | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTCOM00020180323ee3n005h9  



 SEEconomy   HDFed Super Dove Kashkari Says He Supports Latest Fed Rate Rise, in Bid For Continuity; Now a nonvoting member of FOMC, he had voted against all three  interest-rate  increases last year   BYBy Michael S. Derby    WC585 words   PD23 March 2018   ET17:14   SNThe Wall Street Journal Online   SCWSJO   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2018 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
   LPFederal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis President Neel Kashkari, one of the central bank's biggest rate-rise opponents, said Friday he was nevertheless in favor of this week's increase in short-term interest rates.

Mr. Kashkari's endorsement of Wednesday's rate increase is an unexpected development for him. The central banker has been a persistent critic of moving monetary policy to a more restrictive stance. When he held a voting role on the rate-setting Federal Open Market Committee last year, he voted against all three rate increases done in 2017.
   TDLast year, he argued that with inflation weak and well below the Fed's 2% inflation target, there was simply no justification to boost the cost of short-term borrowing in the economy. What's more, he warned that Fed rate rises were even risking tilting the economy into recession.

Mr. Kashkari, in his comments Friday, said his support of the latest rate increase comes down more to defending the central bank's credibility under a new chairman, rather than a shift in his fundamental outlook.

"If I had been sitting in the chairman's seat, I would have raised rates because we told the markets we were going to raise rates," Mr. Kashkari said. Boosting short-term rates "represented continuity with what the Federal Reserve said it was going to do."

However, "we have a ways to go" before achieving the Fed's job and inflation goals, and "there's still some slack in the labor market," Mr. Kashkari said. And on that front, "I don't think the data itself supports rate increases at this point."

Mr. Kashkari was speaking as part of the Quinnipiac G.A.M.E forum in New York. They were his first public comments since the Fed put in place the first rate rise in the tenure of new Chairman Jerome Powell on Wednesday. The FOMC boosted its overnight target rate range to 1.50% to 1.75%, and penciled in around two more increases over 2018.

The Fed also offered an upgraded economic outlook and said it now expects inflation will exceed the central bank's 2% inflation target in coming years. For many observers, that outlook increases the odds the central bank may be even more aggressive with interest-rate increases over coming years.

In his remarks, Mr. Kashkari warned that he currently views monetary policy as about neutral in terms of its influence on the economy, saying more rate increases will likely serve as a choke on growth. The official also said that recent shifts in the bond market may be signaling to the Fed that its rate rises are becoming a drag on growth.

Mr. Kashkari said he still sees no evidence the economy is overheating. He also said that while predicting a coming economic downturn is difficult, he sees about even odds right now of an economic downturn.

Regarding the Trump administration imposing tariffs on steel and aluminum imports and threatening curbs on imports from China, Mr. Kashkari said "if there was a full-fledge trade war...it would have a dramatically negative impact on the economy."

Write to Michael S. Derby at michael.derby@wsj.com

Also

* Fed Official Who Bailed Out Big Banks Is Now One of Their Biggest Critics
   COfed : Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System   INibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCG/FED | N/CBK | N/DSR | N/EMP | N/GENI | N/IEN   IPDWSJ | WSJ.com | WSJ.com Site Search | WSJAsia | WSJEurope | WSJ Japanese | Online | WSJ-PRO-WSJ.com | WSJSunday | FED KASHKARI | FOMC | INFLATION | INTEREST RATES | MONETARY POLICY | RATE HIKES | TRADE | SB126955385469309739639045841195400263176781 | Jerome Powell | Neel Kashkari | PRO | SYND | Central Banks | WSJ-PRO-CB | CODES_REVIEWED | Fed Tightening Timetable | CBFDETIGHTENINGTIMETABLE | Federal Reserve | CBFEDERALRESERVE | CBMONETARYPOLICY   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument WSJO000020180323ee3n004ph  



 SEEconomy   HDFed's Rosengren Warns U.S. Could Face Trouble Fighting Next Crisis; Boston Fed chief says larger budget deficits and historically low interest rates could restrict policy responses   BYBy Michael S. Derby    WC410 words   PD24 March 2018   ET00:00   SNWSJ Pro Financial Regulation   SCRSTPROFR   LAEnglish   CYCopyright © 2018, Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 
   LPFederal Reserve Bank of Boston leader Eric Rosengren warned Friday that the U.S. may not have the tools it needs to respond to the next financial or economic crisis.

"Rather than building sufficient capacity for possible downturns—which, by the way, I am not expecting or predicting—the U.S. has actually seen a reduction in the capacity of these so-called ‘buffers' across the policy tools," Mr. Rosengren said in the text of a speech to be delivered in Washington.
   TDMr. Rosengren warned that officials could be restricted in fighting the next downturn because of larger budget deficits and an environment where interest rates won't be as high as they have been historically. He said policy makers need to think about fixing this problem now, before trouble arises.

"If fiscal and monetary policy tools are likely to be limited in the event of a large adverse shock, I would suggest that policy makers need to think about and act on creating greater capacity and flexibility within the tools currently available—including those most directly related to financial stability," Mr. Rosengren said.

The official isn't a voting member of the interest-rate-setting Federal Open Market Committee this year. He didn't comment on the interest-rate outlook in his first public remarks since the Fed raised its benchmark rate this week. Mr. Rosengren has said he would like to see more rate rises than many of his colleagues to keep the expansion humming along without falling prey to overheating.

"Our economy is now experiencing a very low unemployment rate—in fact, a rate below the level many would associate with full employment," he said Friday. "We are beginning to see modest increases in wage and price inflation, and a more rapid increase in asset prices."

"This may be the time to focus on whether we have adequate buffers among the available policy tools—to be prepared, should anything disrupt the recent trajectory," he said.

Mr. Rosengren didn't comment directly on recent tax cuts and spending increases, but expressed concern about budget deficits.

"Running large fiscal deficits can potentially have ramifications for the ability to respond to possible future financial stability shocks," he said.

Write to Michael S. Derby at michael.derby@wsj.com
   COfrbb : Federal Reserve Bank of Boston | fed : Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Monetary Policy | e211 : Government Budget/Taxation | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | e21 : Government Finance   REusa : United States | boston : Boston | namz : North America | use : Northeast U.S. | usma : Massachusetts | usnew : New England   IPCG/FED | N/CBK | N/CMR | N/DJCS | N/DJN | N/DSR | N/EMP | N/GENI | N/IEN | N/NRG | N/TAX | N/WER | R/MA | R/NME | R/US | R/USE   IPDEric Rosengren | PRO | WSJ-PRO-CB | WSJ-PRO-FR | WSJ-PRO-NP | Central Banks | WSJPRO   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument RSTPROFR20180323ee3n000jh  



 HDWRAPUP 1-Fed policymakers say they are watching trade risks closely   WC462 words   PD23 March 2018   ET18:56   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2018 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved. 
   LPAUSTIN/KNOXVILLE, Tenn., March 23 (Reuters) - Federal Reserve officials on Friday said they want to see more details about new tariff policies before deciding whether any policy response is warranted, holding to their view that more interest rate hikes are needed.

The Trump administration on Thursday unveiled plans to raise tariffs on up to $60 billion of Chinese imports, although the measures have a 30-day consultation period before they take effect. China threatened retaliation.
   TDNew tariffs could create headaches for the Fed, which is tasked with fostering stable prices and full employment. New U.S. tariffs would boost prices for U.S. consumers while tariffs imposed by other countries could hurt U.S. exporters.

"I am concerned about it. It bears watching," Dallas Federal Reserve Robert Kaplan told reporters in Austin when asked how new tariffs could impact the policy outlook. "I am going to counsel patience. From a policy point of view from the Fed, let's see how this unfolds."

Kaplan said recent threats about tariffs might be more a negotiating technique than a sign of future policy.

Atlanta Federal Reserve Bank President Raphael Bostic said a separate round of U.S. tariff hikes were not as extensive as initially thought.

"Don't react to the first sound of a policy but actually wait to see what policy actually gets put in place," Bostic said at the Knoxville Economic Forum, noting that steel and aluminum tariffs imposed by the Trump administration are being applied to a much smaller group of countries than when they were first announced.

The Fed's recently installed chairman, Jerome Powell, said on Wednesday following a decision to raise interest rates that the central bank's business contacts have expressed concern over trade tensions between the United States and other countries.

But Fed policymakers still haven't changed their views on the economic outlook based on trade risks, Powell said.

The Fed has been slowly raising interest rates since 2015 and policymakers on Wednesday signaled they expected to increase rates twice more this year. Kaplan and Bostic each said they still expect three hikes will be warranted.

The current risks to the U.S. economy are about even but the Fed cannot "shrug off" risks of a trade war, Minneapolis Fed President Neel Kashkari told a Quinnipiac forum in New York.

"The worst case would be a trade war that triggers a crisis of confidence in the global economy," he said, adding he was not predicting that. (Reporting by Jon Herskovitz in Austin and Ann Saphir in Knoxville, Tenn. Additional reporting by Jonathan Spicer in New York Writing by Jason Lange in Washington Editing by Chizu Nomiyama) 
   RFReleased: 2018-3-23T18:56:05.000Z   COfed : Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Monetary Policy | gjob : General Labor Issues | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News   REusa : United States | china : China | austin : Austin | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America | uss : Southern U.S. | ustx : Texas   IPCSERVICE:PSC | SERVICE:PTD | SERVICE:ZZ | SERVICE:NAT | SERVICE:C | SERVICE:D | SERVICE:GRO | SERVICE:E | SERVICE:MTL | SERVICE:DNP | SERVICE:MNI | SERVICE:SOF | SERVICE:ZD | SERVICE:UCDPTEST | SERVICE:M | SERVICE:ABN | SERVICE:O | SERVICE:AQ | SERVICE:OIL | SERVICE:RNP | SERVICE:U | SERVICE:YQ | SERVICE:Y | SERVICE:PEN | SERVICE:PCM | SERVICE:RBN | LANG:en | OEC | OVR | CEN | ECO | FED | GEN | INT | JOB | MCE | PLCY | POL | TOPCMB | TOPNWS | TRD | TRF | WASH   IPDBusiness | Economy | Politics | US | Americas | North America | United States | USA-FED/ (WRAPUP 1) | USA | FED | (WRAPUP 1)   PUBThomson Reuters (Markets) LLC   ANDocument LBA0000020180323ee3n00rpf  



 SEEconomy   HDFed Sent $80.6 Billion to Treasury in 2017; Remittances fell nearly $11 billion from 2016 amid rising interest rates   BYBy David Harrison    WC308 words   PD23 March 2018   ET17:00   SNWSJ Pro Central Banking   SCRSTPROCB   LAEnglish   CYCopyright © 2018, Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 
   LPThe Federal Reserve sent $80.6 billion in remittances to the Treasury Department in 2017, a $10.9 billion decrease from the previous year, primarily due to rising interest rates.

The Fed's total net income declined by $11.7 billion to $80.7 billion last year, according to the audited financial statement of the U.S. central bank and its regional banks released Friday.
   TDThe decline was largely due to higher interest paid to banks that park money, called reserves, at the central bank. Those payments rose $16 billion to $29.2 billion last year.

At the same time, the Fed earned $113.6 billion in interest income on its securities, up $2.5 billion from the previous year.

The decline in remittances is largely a result of the Fed's steady increases short-term interest rates. Fed officials raised their benchmark rate three times in 2017, in quarter-percentage-point increments. The Fed raised the benchmark rate again this week and has penciled in two more rate moves this year.

Remittances to the Treasury grew in the years following the financial crisis as the Fed acquired Treasury and mortgage-backed securities in an effort to stimulate the economy. Interest on those securities makes up part of the Fed's income. By law, it must use its revenue to cover its operating expenses and send the rest to the Treasury.

Fed payments to the Treasury peaked in 2015 at $97.7 billion, the same year the central bank began its current series of gradual interest-rate increases.

In 2017, Fed operating expenses totaled $6.8 billion, up from $6.7 billion in 2016.

Write to David Harrison at david.harrison@wsj.com
   COfed : Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System   INi814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gvbod : Government Bodies | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPCG/FED | G/IGV | I/BNK | N/AER | N/CBK | N/CMR | N/DJCS | N/DJN | N/DSR | N/ECR | N/EMP | N/EMR | N/GENI | N/ICM | N/IEN | N/NRG | N/WER | P/HDL | R/NME | R/US   IPDPRO | WSJ-PRO-CB | WSJ-PRO-FR | WSJ-PRO-NP | Central Banks | WSJPRO   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument RSTPROCB20180323ee3n000xd  



 HDUPDATE 2-With Fed 'at or near' goals, Bostic wants more rate hikes   WC542 words   PD23 March 2018   ET15:42   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2018 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved. 
   LP(Adds comments, background)

By Ann Saphir
   TDKNOXVILLE, Tenn., March 23 (Reuters) - With the U.S. economy now at or near the Federal Reserve's goals of full employment and 2-percent inflation, the U.S. central bank should continue raising interest rates until they are no longer stimulating growth, a Fed policymaker said on Friday.

"Our models and my forecast had three moves for this year," Atlanta Federal Reserve Bank President Raphael Bostic told reporters after a speech at the Knoxville Economic Forum, referring to interest rate hikes.

There is a good deal of uncertainty, he added, and the Fed may need one more or one less hike than he currently forecasts, depending on the strength of the economy.

The Fed should continue to move rates up to a neutral level of between 2.25 percent to 2.75 percent, he said.

"Once we get to neutral I think we should step back and take a look and see how the economy is performing," he said. "If there are signs that the economy is overheating, then we act to tighten a little bit, but if not, I would be comfortable staying at neutral until we see those signs."

That point is "at least a year away from now and possibly more," and a lot could happen in between to change the outlook, he said.

The Fed raised interest rates earlier this week and forecast two more rate hikes for 2018 and three each year after that, highlighting its growing confidence that tax cuts and government spending will boost the economy and inflation.

Bostic voted for the rate increase and on Friday noted upside risks to economic growth and labor costs, and said that for the first time in many years inflation runs a risk of rising "somewhat above" the Fed's 2-percent goal.

He also moderated his earlier sharp warnings about the negative impact of the Trump administration's steel and aluminum tariffs, noting that they are much more narrow in scope than initially thought. "The nature of the tariff moderated, and so my tone moderated," he said, adding that he is taking a "wait and see" approach on assessing the administration's freshly proposed China tariffs.

Bostic said he sees the U.S. economy growing at about 2.5 percent to 2.75 percent this year, potentially more since he has only conservatively estimated the boost from Trump's tax overhaul and a budget that increases government spending.

"I spend a lot of time and my staff spends a lot of time looking for overheat... We want to avoid that if we possibly can," he said.

But though he expects inflation to continue to firm, and unemployment to fall further, "We're just not seeing the signs that would suggest that overheating is on the horizon: inflation is not showing signs of spiking, wages are not showing signs of spiking in a dramatic way, and job growth is still happening pretty robustly."

"For us I think all those things would suggest we don't need to be accommodative in policy," he said. (Reporting by Ann Saphir Editing by Chizu Nomiyama) 
   RFReleased: 2018-3-23T15:42:32.000Z   COfed : Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCSERVICE:PSC | SERVICE:PTD | SERVICE:NAT | SERVICE:REUFF | SERVICE:C | SERVICE:D | SERVICE:GRO | SERVICE:E | SERVICE:MTL | SERVICE:DNP | SERVICE:MNI | SERVICE:SOF | SERVICE:UCDPTEST | SERVICE:M | SERVICE:ABN | SERVICE:O | SERVICE:AQ | SERVICE:OIL | SERVICE:RNP | SERVICE:U | SERVICE:RBN | SERVICE:FUN | LANG:en | OEC | OVR | CEN | DBT | ECO | FED | GEN | GFIN | GVD | INFL | INT | JOB | MCE | MPLT | PLCY | POL | PXP | TOPCMB | TOPNWS   IPDBusiness | Economy | Politics | US | Media type Pictures | Americas | North America | United States | USA-FED/BOSTIC (UPDATE 2, PIX) | USA | FED | BOSTIC (UPDATE 2, PIX)   PUBThomson Reuters (Markets) LLC   ANDocument LBA0000020180323ee3n00hxc  



 SEMarkets   HDFed's Bostic Says He Expects More Gradual Rate Rises Over Rest of 2018; Atlanta Fed president says rate rise this week 'made sense'   BYBy Michael S. Derby    WC534 words   PD23 March 2018   ET13:12   SNThe Wall Street Journal Online   SCWSJO   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2018 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
   LPFederal Reserve Bank of Atlanta President Raphael Bostic said Friday the economy is facing upside risks to activity over coming years, and that's why he's supportive of pressing forward with interest rate rises.

"If the economy evolves roughly as I suspect, I will likely support further increases over the course of the year," Mr. Bostic said in the text of a speech to be presented before an event in Knoxville, Tenn. "Though I expect that a sequence of further rate hikes will be appropriate over the next couple of years, that view is based on certain assumptions about how economic conditions will evolve going forward," he said.
   TDWhile the outlook is positive, "forecasts are inherently uncertain," Mr. Bostic said. Because of this, "it is generally appropriate, in my view, to steadily ease our way to higher rates, moving gradually and assessing the emerging circumstances before taking another step along the path to full normalization."

Mr. Bostic was the first Fed official to speak publicly after this week's interest-rate setting Federal Open Market Committee meeting. At the gathering officials put in place the first \b interest rate\b0  increase of new Chairman Jerome Powell's tenure, lifting their overnight target rate range to 1.50% and 1.75%.

Officials also offered up forecasts that showed them expecting an even better performance for the job market and broader economy, and the prospect that they may even overshoot their 2% inflation target in coming years. That outlook has opened the door to an even more aggressive path of rate rises in the future, many market observers reckon.

In recent comments, Mr. Bostic noted that while he has been increasing his expectations of the number of rate rises the Fed will need to do this year, Trump administration moves toward more protective trade barriers and the threat of a related trade war had added uncertainty to his outlook.

Mr. Bostic, who is a voting member of the Federal Open Market Committee, said of this week's rate rise that "this policy move made sense based on some signposts my team and I are seeing in the current economic landscape." He said the rate increase is "another step toward a more neutral monetary policy stance."

In terms of the economy's outlook, Mr. Bostic said he believes changes in government taxation and spending policies will create "a positive, but relatively modest, boost to GDP growth."

Mr. Bostic also said "for the first time in a long time, I see the potential for inflation to run somewhat above the Fed's longer-run 2% [inflation] target as opposed to the below-target rate we have seen over the past six years."

He said the economy and job market are "not yet overheated" but added that vigor in hiring means "there is an upside risk for explicit and implicit labor costs going forward." Still, Mr. Bostic said he believes that a "relatively calm" inflation environment will remain in place.

Write to Michael S. Derby at michael.derby@wsj.com
   COfed : Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services   NSe12 : Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter   REatlnt : Atlanta | namz : North America | usa : United States | usga : Georgia (US) | uss : Southern U.S.   IPCG/FED | N/CMR | N/DJN | N/DSR | N/EMP | N/GEN | N/GENI | N/IEN | N/PLT | N/WER | R/GA | R/NME | R/US | R/USS   IPDNWREGULAR | WSJ | WSJ.com | WSJ.com Site Search | WSJAsia | WSJEurope | WSJ Japanese | Online | WSJ-PRO-WSJ.com | WSJSunday | FED | FEDERAL RESERVE | INTEREST RATES | SB126955385469309739639045841191940179687881 | Bostic, Raphael | Jerome Powell | PRO | SYND | Central Banks | WSJ-PRO-CB | CODES_REVIEWED | Fed Tightening Timetable | CBFDETIGHTENINGTIMETABLE | CBFEDERALRESERVE | Monetary Policy | CBMONETARYPOLICY | Wires | Markets Main   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument WSJO000020180323ee3n002jq  



 SEEconomy   HDTranscript: Jerome Powell's Postmeeting Press Conference; Fed leader talks about the outlook for interest rates and economic growth, the possible effects of fiscal and trade policies, and financial regulation   WC7,488 words   PD22 March 2018   ET18:27   SNWSJ Pro Financial Regulation   SCRSTPROFR   LAEnglish   CYCopyright © 2018, Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 
   LPJerome Powell held his first press conference as Federal Reserve chairman following the central bank's decision to raise short-term interest rates Wednesday, March 21, 2018. Mr. Powell answered questions about the outlook for interest rates and economic growth, the Fed's inflation target, the possible effects of U.S. fiscal and trade policies, and financial regulation. Here is a transcript of the press conference in Washington, lightly edited for length and clarity.

JEROME POWELL: Good afternoon. I have a brief statement and then I'll be happy to respond to your questions.
   TDThe job market remains strong. The economy continues to expand. And inflation appears to be moving toward the [Federal Open Market Committee's] 2 percent longer-run goal. As you already know, we decided today to raise the target rate for the federal-funds rate by ¼ of a percentage point, bringing it to 1½ to 1¾ percent. This decision marks another step in the ongoing process of gradually scaling back monetary policy accommodation, a process that has been under way for several years now.

Job gains averaged 240,000 per month over the past three months, well above the pace needed in the longer run to absorb new entrants into the labor force. The unemployment rate remained low in February, at 4.1 percent, while the labor-force participation rate moved higher. Over the past four years, the participation rate has remained roughly unchanged. That's a sign of improvement given that the aging of our population is putting downward pressure on the participation rate. And we expect that the job market will remain strong.

Although the growth rates of household spending and business investment appear to have moderated earlier this year, gains in the fourth quarter were strong and the fundamentals underpinning demand remain solid. Indeed, the economic outlook has strengthened in recent months. Several factors are supporting the outlook. Fiscal policy has become more stimulative. Ongoing job gains are boosting incomes and confidence. Foreign growth is on a firm trajectory. And overall financial conditions remain accommodative.

Against this backdrop, inflation remains below our 2 percent longer-run objective. Overall consumer prices, as measured by the price index for personal-consumption expenditures, increased 1.7 percent in the 12 months ending in January. The core price index, which excludes the prices of energy and food and is typically a better indicator of future inflation, rose 1.5 percent over the same period. However, as we have noted for some time, the shortfall of inflation from 2 percent reflects, at least partly, some unusual price declines that occurred nearly a year ago.

In coming months, as those earlier declines drop out of the calculation, inflation should move up closer to 2 percent and stabilize around that level over the medium term. Of course, various forces will continue to affect inflation. At times, it may be above 2 percent, just as at times it may be below. Our inflation objective is symmetric, in the sense that we are trying to prevent persistent deviations from 2 percent in either direction.

Based on the projections that committee participants submitted for this meeting, the median projection for the growth of inflation-adjusted [gross domestic product] is 2.7 percent this year, 2.4 percent next year, and 2 percent in 2020, a bit above its estimated longer-run rate. The median projection for unemployment – for the unemployment rate stands at 3.8 percent in the fourth quarter of this year and runs at 3.6 percent over the next two years – almost a percentage point below the median estimate of its longer-run normal rate. Finally, the median inflation projection is 1.9 percent this year, 2 percent next year, and 2.1 percent in 2020.

Compared with the projections made in December, real GDP growth is stronger, the unemployment rate is lower, and inflation is slightly higher. As I noted earlier, today's decision to raise the federal-funds rate is another step in the process of gradually scaling back monetary policy accommodation as the economic expansion continues. This gradual process has been under way for more than two years, and it has served – and should continue to serve – the economy well.

In making our policy decisions over the next few years, we will continue to aim for inflation of 2 percent while sustaining the economic expansion and a strong labor market. In the committee's view, further gradual increases in the federal-funds rate will be promote these goals.

By contrast, raising rates too slowly would raise the risk that monetary policy would need to tighten abruptly down the road, which could jeopardize the economic expansion. At the same time, we want to avoid inflation running persistently below our objective, which could leave us with less scope to counter an economic downturn in the future.

Participants' projections of the appropriate path for the federal-funds rate reflect our gradual approach. The median projection for the federal-funds rate is 2.1 percent at the end of this year, 2.9 percent at the end of 2019, and 3.4 percent at the end of 2020. By 2020, the median federal-funds rate is modestly above its estimated longer run trend. Most participants revised up their projections since December, although the median projection for this year did not change. The medians for 2019 and 2020 are somewhat higher than in December.

Of course, we'll be watching how the economy evolves in the months and years ahead relative to our maximum employment and price stability objectives. If the outlook changes, we will adjust monetary policy appropriately.

Finally, I'll note that our program for reducing our balance sheet, which began in October, is proceeding smoothly. Barring a very significant and unexpected weakening in the outlook, we do not intend to alter this program. As we have said, changing the target range for the federal-funds rate is our primary means of adjusting the stance of monetary policy.

As always, the committee would be prepared to use its full range of tools if future economic conditions were to warrant a more accommodative monetary policy than can be achieved solely by reducing the federal-funds rate.

Thank you, and I'll be happy to take your questions now.

STAFF: Steve Liesman.

Q: Mr. Chairman, welcome. Interesting changes in the forecast – a higher growth forecast, a full point above the long run; lower unemployment, seven-tenths below the long run; and yet very little change in inflation. What does that say about what you and the committee believe about the inflation dynamic? And how is it that in that context you justify three rate hikes this year and have said it's going to be three next year, and a full $600 billion, I guess, annual rate decline on the balance sheet? Where's your biggest concern here? Is it in overkill when it comes to rates, or underkill?

MR. POWELL: So you're right that the outlook did improve, as I mentioned and as you – as was in your question. The committee's estimates of growth went up, the committee's estimates of unemployment went down, and there was a very slight increase in inflation. And I think that reflects, essentially – if you think back to the era after the crisis, unemployment was 10 percent; it's now 4.1 percent. You've only seen very gradual upward pressures on inflation and wages, despite that very large increase, and that suggests that the relationship between changes in slack and inflation is not so tight. But – it has diminished, but it's still there. So I think when you see those small changes in unemployment, that simply reflects the – you know, the flatness of the Phillips curve, if you will.

Q: And your biggest concern, the biggest risk here is that – doing too much, doing too little?

MR. POWELL: You know, I think we're trying to – we're trying to be – to take the middle ground there, so – you know, on the one hand, the risk would be that we wait too long and then we have to raise rates quickly, and that foreshortens the expansion. We don't want to do that. On the other side, if we raise rates too quickly, inflation then really doesn't get sustainably up to 2 percent, and that will hurt us going forward. We need that, and it's – you know, we need to make sure that inflation expectations are anchored at 2 percent.

So we're trying to take that middle ground, and the committee continues to believe that the middle ground consists of further gradual increases in the federal-funds rate as long as the economy is broadly on this path.

Q: Thanks. Nick Timiraos of The Wall Street Journal.

Chair Powell, I want to ask about the symmetric inflation target, what you outlined in your remarks as preventing persistent deviations. I want to understand what symmetry means in the context of inflation being allowed to run above the 2 percent target, now that that's part of the projection at least for core PCE next year. How do you define symmetric relative to the experience of the past five years? Would the Fed be willing to accept the type of overshoot of its target as it has seen during the undershoot? And how high above 2 percent is too high to maintain a target that is symmetric? Is it 2¼, 2½, 2¾? And also, for how long?

MR. POWELL: You know, so, as you noted, the – what we've said in the longer-run statement of goals and monetary policy strategy is that we would be concerned with sustained or persistent deviations of inflation either above or below. We've also said in minutes and in speeches and things like that that that is a symmetric objective. So that's how we think of it.

And I think it's – I wouldn't characterize what we've done over the last five years as tolerating, you know, an undershoot of inflation. We were always pushing toward 2 percent. And I think that is how we look at it.

I can't give you an exact number. It just – you know, we haven't agreed on that. It just is that we're always going to be seeking 2 percent inflation. And in doing that, we're going to be considering, by the way, the other side of the mandate. You know, we have to balance that against the deviation of employment from – unemployment from its goal, and also just the duration of it as well.

Q: Hi, Mr. Chairman. Jim Puzzanghera with the L.A. Times.

Even with the extra fiscal stimulus of the tax cuts, your meeting growth projection is just up to 2.7 percent this year, and then drops back down to 2 percent by 2020. Is the continued talk in Washington about tax cuts bringing growth to 3 percent or higher on a sustained basis overselling their potential impact?

MR. POWELL: You know, let me say what that really is. So the Summary of Economic Projections is really a compilation of the individual rate forecasts. The committee made really one decision at this meeting, and that was to raise the federal-funds rate by 25 basis points. The Summary of Economic Projections is individual forecasts compiled and written down. And you've identified the median as 2.7 percent. I would – and that's an interesting statistic. I would also say that the central tendency is interesting. The full range is interesting.

So you have a range of views around the table. One of the great benefits of our system is that we do have reserve banks with their own staffs and governors with different views. And so we discuss these things. So the committee doesn't vote or agree upon the medians. So you're going to have a range of views. That's really all I can say. Two-point-seven just happens to be the median for '18, but it doesn't really say, you know, what we think is possible.

Q: But do you think you can get to 3 percent on a sustained basis?

MR. POWELL: You know, I would say it's hard to say, but it would take – you know, that is well above almost all estimates, current estimates, of potential long-run growth. It would take, you know, significant increases in productivity and labor-force participation to get there.

STAFF: Jeanna.

Q: Hi. Jeanna Smialek with Bloomberg News.

So obviously you guys reduced your NAIRU [non-accelerating inflation rate of unemployment] estimate slightly today. But if you continue to see job gains around 200,000 a month, prime-age labor participation rising slightly, pretty sustainably, you know, moderate wage increases, at what point are you guys going to start to question why they're actually overshooting full employment? And if you start to question that, how is that going to impact policy?

MR. POWELL: So I guess I'd start by saying that the natural rate of unemployment is not something that we can observe directly. We look at a wide range of indicators on that; you know, 15 or 20 of them at least. And also, I think we all understand that any point estimate is surrounded by very wide uncertainty bands. So as the actual unemployment rate has declined from 10 percent to 4.1 percent, the committee's median estimate of the natural rate of unemployment has also declined by a full percentage point. So the committee and, I think, people are generally influenced by data. As they see unemployment going lower, they're looking at a variety of aspects of the labor market, including wage inflation and price inflation.

So I don't think we – we're mindful of the uncertainty of that, and we'll be looking at that. So as – if unemployment does continue to go down, we'll continue to do that. As I mentioned earlier, there is no – there's no sense in the data that we're on the cusp of an acceleration of inflation. We have seen moderate increases in wages and price inflation, and we seem to be seeing more of that. We'll be alert to that. I guess the idea – the theory would be that if you get below the sustainable rate of unemployment for a sustained period, you would see an acceleration of inflation. So we would know that then. And we're very alert to it, but it's not something we observe at the present.

Q: Thanks.

Q: Thanks very much. Sam Fleming from the Financial Times.

You and other policy makers have talked about headwinds turning into tailwinds recently. Does that imply that you think now a higher neutral rate of interest is operative in the U.S. economy and how do you assess the implications for monetary policy?

And second question: This is, obviously, your first press conference, so it's a little early to ask this question, but would you like to do this more often? Thanks.

MR. POWELL: Longer-run values like the neutral rate of interest, the natural rate of unemployment, the potential growth rate of the economy are pinned down by slow-moving forces over time. So they don't – they don't move around very much. So I wouldn't expect the committee's, you know, predictions or projections or estimates of those values to move quickly. They'll move slowly.

So is it possible that the neutral rate of interest would move up because of, for example, greater fiscal expansion? There's literature that says that. There's – there are reasons that that might be the case. In fact, it did tick up one-tenth, as you – as you all know, in the median at this – at this time. But it's – I think, generally speaking, the committee sees the neutral rate of interest as still quite low and is not – is not seeing it as having moved up and is open to the possibility that it – that it will.

Q: Any press conferences?

MR. POWELL: Press conferences – so that's something that I'm going to be carefully considering. I have not made a decision about it. My colleagues and I are committed to communicating as clearly as possible about what we're doing and why we're doing it. I would want to think very carefully about it and make sure that no one would take more frequent press conferences as a signal of the path of policy and so it'll be something that I'll be thinking about.

Q: Adam Shapiro with the Fox Business Network.

You brought up the fiscal stimulus and the impact it's having. And I was curious, how is the change in the federal budget deficit – because the stimulus is coming with great debt – has it changed your approach to how many securities you're going to allow to roll off the balance sheet? And is there a level of Treasury supply at which the Fed would consider adjusting its balance sheet roll-off, given, how much the U.S. government is going to have to borrow going forward?

And then a second question – things beyond your control – the president's expected to announce new tariffs against China. And has the committee discussed what potential impacts that could have in regards to inflation? And do you have a time line as to how you would respond to that?

MR. POWELL: So, in terms of the balance sheet, we've said that – you know, we carefully developed this plan. We carefully socialized it in a series of meetings last year. We announced it and we said we wouldn't change it really unless there were a significant downturn that required, you know, meaningful reductions in interest rates, and I have no inclination to revisit that. We're going to use monetary policy as the principal tool of adjusting, you know, our policy.

So on the second question, on tariffs, a number of participants in this FOMC did bring up the issue of tariffs, and if I could summarize what came out of that, it was, first, that there's no thought, I think, that changes in trade policy should have any effect on the current outlook.

Second thing is – I would say is that a number of participants reported in about their conversations with business leaders around the country and reported that trade policy has become a concern, going forward, for that group.

Q: Marty Crutsinger with the Associated Press.

You talked about the fact that the summary of economic projections is based on the outlook of all the members of the FOMC. Can you tell us anything, though, about the staff forecast and how that was impacted by the – we had a $1.5 trillion tax cut. We've had $300 billion in increased government spending. The staff forecast that you're working with, are those reflected? How were they impacted by that and how did that impact the discussions?

MR. POWELL: So we look at the staff forecast and the board forecast – and by the way, there are 12 excellent reserve bank staffs who have their own views and do their own work – we look at those as informing the decisions of the policy makers. And it's really the policy makers' views that we talk about in the SEP. We don't – we don't, you know, talk about the staff forecast. It's a particular thing under – done under particular rules and circumstances. And really, it's the policy makers that then take that as input and create their forecast, which are what drive policy.

Q: That had no impact, though? Thank you. That's a major increase in the government stimulus that you're – that it had to have an impact on the discussions, I would think?

MR. POWELL: Well, you're right. So fiscal stimulus is a – you know, a meaningful input – you know, into the SEP and particularly in the changes over the course of last year and this year. And individual policy makers went through, with their staffs, a range of estimates, a range of literature, and did their own thinking, and came up with their own estimates, and submitted those as their summary of economic projections – as their – as their projections. Those are not the staff's projections. Those are our projections.

Q: Heather Long, Washington Post.

What would it take to get to four rate hikes this year? It's clear from the dot plot that many members do think four would be appropriate. But clearly something was holding a number of the FOMC members back. Is it concerns about these potential trade tariffs that are going into effect? Is it just that people want to wait and see a little longer before they raise? Can you give us some more insight into why people didn't go to four this time, the median, even though the economic projections look very healthy?

MR. POWELL: I would go back to the thought that, you know, we made one decision at this meeting. And that decision was to raise the federal-funds rate by 25 basis points. The projections are really just individual projections. They're submitted and then complied. And, you know, you're mentioning the median as being – you know, three and four being close. But, you know, I think, like any set of forecasts, those forecasts will change over time, and they'll change depending on the – on the way the outlook for the economy changes. So that's really all I can say. It could change up. it could change down. I wouldn't want to – for now, these are – these are the best forecasts that people could make. And, you know, it could be that if the economy's a little bit stronger or a little bit weaker, then the path could be a little less gradual or a little more gradual.

Q: So it wasn't one factor that was holding kind of the heart of the discussion?

MR. POWELL: Not – no.

Q: Mr. Chairman, a quick follow on the trade question, and then a productivity question. On trade, what would have to happen in policy and, in particular, in potential retaliation from countries around the world for trade policy to become a concern for the committee's outlook? And then the second question is, you mentioned productivity growth earlier. What's your current assessment of the path of productivity growth? And has anything in policy – any policy change in recent months changed that assessment?

MR. POWELL: You know, for trade, what I mentioned is that our FOMC participants reported in that they had heard, you know, concerns which were relatively new about future trade actions, really, and that they're seeing it as a risk to the outlook kind of thing. So and the kind of things people are talking about would be, you know, more widespread retaliation and more widespread actions back and forth kind of thing. I can't be any more specific than that.

In terms of productivity, productivity, as I'm sure you know, has been very weak since the financial crisis. It's averaged only about 0.5 percent a year for the last six years, I guess. So that's well below, you know, longer-run averages. And it would certainly be a good thing to see it move up. It has moved up just a little bit, but not kind of decisively. And you know, you asked me about fiscal policy and the connection to productivity. I think in the tax bill there is – there are incentives for – a tax cut bill that allows expensing of investments should encourage additional investment. That should encourage productivity.

In theory, an individual tax bill that lowers tax rates should encourage more labor-force participation. So I do think it's very important that we have a focus on productivity in the country. It's not something that we can really do at the Fed. But, you know, we're certainly hopeful that there will be supply-side effects like that from the tax bill. I think estimates are really all over the place in terms of the amount and the timing of those.

Q: Chairman Powell, Jonathan Spicer with Reuters.

I take your caveats on the dot plot, as it were, but I'll ask another question. In 2020, it shows that policy makers expect the policy rate to get up almost to 3½ percent, which is quite a ways, or definitely anyways, above the neutral rate. Does that increase the risk of a Fed-induced recession and decrease the risk of a soft landing, which is asking, in a way, about the fiscal policy? And as a follow-up, is that fiscal stimulus starting to lead to questions within the Fed around this narrative of secular stagnation and the economy entering a new sort of low-rates-environment? Thanks.

MR. POWELL: You know, I would say that remember that forecasts three years out – so you're right, in 2020 there's a – I think it's 3.4 percent is the median of the SEP dots for 2020, which is 40 basis points above the estimates of the neutral rate, which I would characterize as, you know, modestly restrictive, modestly tightening policy. But that's three years in the future, it's highly uncertain. You know, we don't have the ability to see that far into the future, so I really wouldn't put a lot in that. It could make sense. You could imagine narratives in which that would make sense, but honestly, I wouldn't put too much on that.

Sorry, your second question was?

Q: Secular stagnation and the narrative, whether the fiscal policy is leading to questions within the Fed around that?

MR. POWELL: You know, we've been through many years of growth around 2 percent. And I've given a number of public remarks where I've called on, you know, the country to focus more on potential growth and productivity and labor-force participation, which drive potential growth. So, you know, I think it's really important that we do something, do what we can as a country to increase our potential growth rate.

I would say in the bill that passed Congress, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, there were elements that should encourage productivity, as I mentioned –? sorry, encourage investment – which should help productivity, encourage labor-force participation. We don't know how big those effects are going to be. We don't know what the timing would be. I think as you look around the table at the FOMC, there's a wide range of views on the amount and the timing of those. I think all of us would agree that we hope that they would be large.

Q: Hi. Mike Derby from Dow Jones Newswires.

I have a question about the future of the mechanics of monetary policy. I wanted to know whether you favor sticking with the system that you have now of keeping interest on excess reserves and the reverse repo – the reverse repo rate to control interest rates, or do you want to shift back to the old way of doing things at some point of targeting the fed-funds market? And do you have any concern that if you do stick with the current system, that as rates rise that you might see issues where the Fed is being criticized for paying out ever-larger shares of money to banks, you know, to control interest rates, that some might perceive as a subsidy to the banks that are getting this money?

MR. POWELL: Sure. Our current framework for implementing monetary policy is working very well. We have excellent control over rates, and it's working. And it's – you described it accurately. We haven't made a decision to keep that as our longer-run framework, we haven't really addressed that question. We've had meetings where we've talked about it and we've agreed that it's working well. And it's not something I see us as needing to urgently address. I think we're continuing to learn about this framework.

For example, one, in the long run, the size of the balance sheet is going to depend on the public's demand for our liabilities, including currency and reserves, so we don't know what the demand is for reserves in a world where you have, you know, you have regulations that require banks to hold lots of high-quality liquid assets and reserves are one of those. So it's not something we're looking at resolving in the near term.

You mentioned the question of interest on excess reserves and I think it's a little bit of a of a misnomer to think that there's a subsidy there. We pay interest on excess reserves; we can't pay interest on excess reserves that is above the general level of short-term interest rates. So we're paying rates that banks can get from other interest rates from any other investment in the short-term money markets.

In addition, remember that those liabilities, those are our liabilities. The assets that we have on the other side are Treasury securities and mortgage-backed securities which yield much higher than interest on reserves, so in fact, it's not a subsidy and it's not a cost to the taxpayer.

Q: Over here. Thank you, Chairman. Thank you very much. Greg Robb from MarketWatch.

Several of your colleagues recently have been speaking and expressing concern about financial imbalances and rising signs of financial imbalances. I was wondering if you could give us your view on the asset markets. Do you see any bubbles? And do you have the tools you need, do you think, to combat those?

Thank you very much.

MR. POWELL: Since the financial crisis, we've been monitoring financial conditions and financial-stability issues very carefully. And the FOMC receives regular briefings about the staff framework and sort of measures of various aspects of financial-stability risks. And the current view of the committee is that financial-stability vulnerabilities are moderate, let's say. And I'll go through a couple of pieces of that.

So if you look at the banking system, particularly the large financial institutions, you see higher capital. You see much higher liquidity. You see them more aware of their risks and better able to manage them with stress testing. And if one – if something does go wrong, you've got – you've got better ability to deal with the failure of those institutions. So therefore you don't see high leverage. You don't see excess risk-taking in great quantity, the way we did see before the crisis.

If you look at households, household balance sheets are in much better condition. If you look at nonfinancial corporations, you see – you do see relatively elevated levels of borrowing, but nothing that suggests, you know, serious risks. And, of course, default rates are very low. So those readings look OK.

I should mention also that for large financial institutions, they're no longer funded by a lot of short-term wholesale funding, which can disappear very quickly. So they're far less vulnerable to liquidity issues.

Overall, those aspects, I think, suggest low levels of vulnerability. You identified really one area where – which is an area of focus, which is asset prices. So in some areas, asset prices are elevated relative to their longer-run historical norms. You can think of some equity prices. You can think of commercial real-estate prices in certain markets. But we don't see it in housing, which is key.

And so, overall, if you put all of that into a pie, what you have is moderate vulnerabilities, in our view.

In terms of whether we have the tools, you know, we have some tools. And I think we certainly – we use them. We have – I think the stress test is a really important tool that we have for the largest financial institutions and for the smaller financial institutions...

Q: Hi. Victoria Guida with Politico.

More on the regulatory side, you know, the Fed might soon be getting more power to decide exactly which regulations – which stricter regulations to apply to banks with between $100 [billion] and $250 billion in assets. And so I had a couple of questions about that.

So for the [Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review], those stress tests, since that's based around, you know, having a punitive penalty of potentially being able to restrict dividend payouts or stock buybacks, is there any kind of logistical challenge that could be posed if you don't have CCAR every year for certain banks? Is it possible to have CCAR not on an annual basis?

And then my other question is, you know, you've talked a lot about how size isn't the only thing that causes banks to pose systemic risk. And I was wondering, what other factors do you think would cause a bank to potentially pose a systemic risk?

MR. POWELL: OK, so this is – this is a matter that Congress has under consideration. It's not something – so Congress is looking at raising the threshold for applying enhanced prudential standards from $50 billion to $250 billion, while leaving us with the ability to reach below $250 billion and apply those standards where we think it's appropriate. And, you know, we haven't been shy about doing that, because, of course, one of the eight SIFIs [systemically important financial institutions] is below 250 already. So we are fully prepared to do that.

But this is a decision that's in the hands of Congress. It's not something that's been taken. The version of the bill, I think, that passed the Senate did have – did give us the ability to do supervisory stress tests periodically, as opposed to annually, is the language. We haven't made any decision about that at all. We would want to think very carefully about that. And, you know, we would – whatever we do decide to do, we put that out for comment. Is it, you know, logistically possible? I would think it would be. But it's certainly not something that we've decided to do.

And the second question you had was –

Q: About what causes banks to pose systemic risk, beyond size.

MR. POWELL: Sure. Well, it's – I guess the next thing on the list would be activities. So, you know, we – the regular way commercial banks that do deposit taking and lending and don't speculate in markets, you know, that's one business model. Another business model might be, you know, think of a hedge fund, right? That's what they do, they're speculating on markets. And, you know, so very different business models and different levels of risk and that sort of thing. So that would be the next thing on the list. I mean, there would be a range of things. You know, how well-capitalized is the institution. But mainly those things.

Q: Michael McKee from Bloomberg Television and Radio.

I'd like to go back to the idea of the additional growth that you're getting from the fiscal package and ask you how much you think comes from the supply side and how much from demand. You used words like "might" and "should" about what results should come from this process. But around the table, did any of the presidents or governors report that businesses are actually getting ready to spend? Is this something that's going to happen? Do we know that there's going to be a supply-side effect, or are you just guessing at this point?

MR. POWELL: Remember that there are 15 FOMC participants and each of us has his or her own forecasts. So there's a real diversity of views on this, particularly on these fiscal issues. If I could try to summarize, it would be that I think broadly speaking participants believe there will be meaningful increases in demand from the new fiscal policies for at least the next, let's say, three years. I think there's a general view as well that supply-side issues – that there could be supply-side effects as well. And you would see that, again, through higher investment driven by lower corporate tax rates and the expensing of investment, which would tend to drive productivity over time. If you make investment more attractive, companies should do more of it.

It's uncertain, though. And I mean, I spent many years of my life working with companies and discussing. And, you know, the cost of capital is one of many factors that they'll consider. It isn't the only factor or the principal factor. But it should result in more investment, and investment should drive productivity. At the same time, the – you know, I mentioned labor supply. You should see some labor supply effects over time from lower individual effective tax rates. The whole this is very uncertain. And particularly the supply-side effects should and would be expected to take longer to appear and would be less certain in amount. ... You know, we've all looked at the literature carefully. We've all thought about it. We've discussed it with our in-house experts and come up with our own views. And their disparate. But that's – I'd say that's about where the views are.

Q: Hi, Chairman Powell. Donna Borak with CNN.

Just to go back to trade policy, if you don't mind. You said that participants today are generally feeling that the trade policy shouldn't necessarily affect the current economic outlook. But I am wondering if there was any discussion, if there's fears about inflationary effects should there be trade barriers imposed. And secondly, you know, we might be on the verge of a tit for tat trade war with China. Wondering what your thoughts are of how that might dampen the economic – the global economic outlook going forward should that occur.

MR. POWELL: You know, at this stage what our FOMC participants discussed, it wasn't – it was – it was just that this is a new risk that had been probably a low-profile risk which has become, you know, a more prominent risk to the outlook. That's really what people were saying. They didn't get into talking about particular – you know, whether it's inflation or growth or whatever it would be. So that's not something that did come up.

You know, your second question, sorry, was China?

Q: Yeah. In the event that the U.S. and China end up in a tit-for-tat trade war, or any other retaliatory actions that are imposed elsewhere against the United States, what that means for the global economic outlook, and whether that was something that was discussed, and are you worried about?

MR. POWELL: That didn't – that's not something that came up in particular. And let me say, you know, we don't – we don't do trade policy here at the Fed. And, you know, I would be reluctant to comment on any particular situation with any particular country.

Q: Nancy Marshall-Genzer, sir, with Marketplace.

Does the interest-rate hike today suggest that Americans are being paid enough? Are you satisfied with the rate of wage growth right now?

MR. POWELL: As I mentioned, you know, we've had unemployment decline sharply since, I guess, 2010 when it peaked at 10 percent, and down to 4.1 percent now. And we've seen only modest increases in wages. So on the one hand, what wages should in theory represent is inflation plus productivity increases. You should get paid for your productivity plus inflation. And productivity has been very low, inflation has been low, so these low wage increases – in a sense they do make sense in that – from that perspective.

On the other hand, as the market has tightened, as labor markets have tightened – and we hear reports of labor shortages that we see, that, you know, groups of unemployed are diminishing, and the unemployment rate is going down – we haven't seen, you know, higher wages – wages going up more. And I would – I think I've been surprised by that, and I think others have as well.

In terms of what's the right level, I don't think I have a view on what the right level of wages is, but I think we will – we will know that the labor market is getting tight when we do see a more meaningful upward move in wages.

Q: Virginie Montet with Agence France-Presse.

If the economy behaves as the Fed is predicting, by the time of the midterm elections, the rates will be – keep on rising, and the prime rate will be above – well above 5 percent, a level not reached in 10 years for what is the base of consumer credit. And we know that, historically, raising rates, especially in campaign times, has never been very popular in the White House.

Does this prospect of a possible pressure and dichotomy of concerns keep you awake at night?

MR. POWELL: No, that doesn't keep me awake at night. We don't consider the election cycle. You know, we – we're looking very carefully at our assigned responsibilities of maximum employment, stable prices, and that's really our focus. You can count on us to stay focused on the jobs that Congress has assigned us and count on us to use the tools we have to achieve them.

You're right – that's the highest rate – by the way, I'm hearing this – the 10-year thing a few times these days, and it's true that rates are higher than they have been in 10 years. On the other hand, the economy is healthier than it has been since before the financial crisis, so it's a healthier economy than it has been in 10 years. The financial crisis, of course, was just really getting going 10 years ago.

Q: Thanks. Myles Udland, Yahoo Finance.

Chair Powell, I'm curious if the Fed would be willing to tolerate an inverted yield curve. We've continued to see the spread between the two-year and the 10-year tighten, even with longer-term yields coming up since the beginning of the year. This is a dynamic that has typically proceeded recessions, and we're likely to see shorter-term rates come up as the Fed continues to increase rates.

So I'm just curious if you guys have discussed that, if you'd be willing to push back against that, if that's a dynamic you would be comfortable with.

MR. POWELL: You know, it's an interesting question, and there are a range of views there. I mean, I think it's true that yield curves have tended to predict recessions if you look back over many cycles, but a lot of that was just situations in which inflation was allowed to get out of control, and the Fed had to tighten, and that put the economy into recession.

That's really not the situation we're in now, so I don't know that that's – I don't know that – I don't think that recession probabilities are particularly high at the moment – any higher than they normally are.

But having said that, I think it's – there are good questions about what a flat yield curve or an inverted yield curve does to intermediation. It's hard to find in the research data, but nonetheless I think those are issues that we'll be watching carefully.

Related

* Fed Raises Rates and Signals Faster Pace in Coming Years

* Fed's Mission Improbable: Lift Unemployment—but Avoid Recession

* Harrison's Take: Jerome Powell's High-Pressure Economy

* Recap: Fed Pencils In Three Increases This Year 

* Asian Stocks Rise After Fed Rate Increase

* U.S. Dollar Extends Decline After Fed Statement

* How the March Statement Changed From January

* Heard on the Street: Sorry, But The Fed Will Be Safe Not Sorry

* Officials See Economy Slightly Overshooting 2% Inflation Target

* Borrowing Costs for Consumers Edge Upward
   COfed : Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System   INi814 : Banking | ifinal : Financial Services | i81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | e1103 : Inflation/Prices | c13 : Regulation/Government Policy | e12 : Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter   REnamz : North America | usa : United States | usdc : Washington DC | uss : Southern U.S.   IPCG/FED | I/BNK | M/FCL | N/CBK | N/DSR | N/ECO | N/EMP | N/GENI | N/IEN | N/PBP | R/DC | R/NME | R/US   IPDMcKee, Michael | POWELL, JEROME | ALERTABLE | PRO | WSJ-PRO-CB | WSJ-PRO-FR | Central Banks | WSJPRO   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument RSTPROFR20180322ee3m000dx  



 HDHercules Capital Says Prime Rate Is Expected To Increase From 4.50 Pct To 4.75 Pct   WC116 words   PD22 March 2018   SNReuters Significant Developments   SCMULTI   LAEnglish   CYCopyright © 2018 Reuters 
   LPDate Announced: 20180322

March 22 (Reuters) - Hercules Capital Inc <HTGC.N>::HERCULES' HIGHLY ASSET SENSITIVE DEBT INVESTMENT PORTFOLIO TO GENERATE ADDITIONAL $0.04 OF NET INVESTMENT INCOME EARNINGS ANNUALLY(2) FROM THE RECENT INCREASE IN THE FEDERAL RESERVE BENCHMARK INTEREST RATE.HERCULES CAPITAL INC - PRIME RATE IS EXPECTED TO INCREASE FROM 4.50% TO 4.75%.HERCULES CAPITAL- 25 BASIS POINT INCREASE IN PRIME RATE ANTICIPATED TO GENERATE ABOUT $3.2 MILLION, OR $0.04 PER SHARE OF ADDITIONAL NII.HERCULES CAPITAL INC - EXPECTED BENEFIT FROM MARCH 2018 RATE INCREASE IS EXPECTED TO MATERIALIZE BEGINNING WITH OUR Q2 2018 OPERATING PERIOD.
   COhtgcic : Hercules Capital Inc.   INi81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles | i8150206 : Closed-end Funds/Investment Trusts | ibusdev : Business Development Companies/Venture Capital Trusts | ifinal : Financial Services | iinv : Investing/Securities   NSc152 : Earnings Projections | e1202 : Interest Rates | eprime : Prime Rate | c15 : Financial Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e12 : Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCMarket Guide Industry Map Code; 0700 | Dev Topic 1; 252   IPDCompany Type; EQU | Exchange - Primary Issue; NYSE | Market Guide Sector Mnemonic; FINANC | Market Guide Industry Mnemonic; FSMISC | Dev Topic 1; Other Earnings Pre-Announcement   PUBReuters America LLC   ANDocument MULTI00020180323ee3m0002s  



 SEMarkets   HDMoney Markets Are Messed Up, With Real Consequences; Banks are paying more to borrow money now than during the 2012 euro crisis, a sign of trouble ahead   BYBy James Mackintosh    WC834 words   PD22 March 2018   ET18:34   SNThe Wall Street Journal Online   SCWSJO   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2018 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
   LPThe Federal Reserve raised rates just 0.25 percentage point this week, but distortions in the money markets mean many borrowers are seeing their interest rates rise far faster.

The good news is that what look like flashing red alerts about imminent trouble for the banks are nothing of the sort. The bad news is that blockages in the plumbing of the financial system could lead to unpredictable ruptures as the markets adapt to a new monetary regime. The danger signals at the moment are coming from the money markets, where banks are having to pay a bigger premium to borrow than during the 2012 euro crisis. Savers are directing their money to the U.S. Treasury rather than the banks, just as they did in the past two major crises.
   TDThe cause this time isn't a panicked flight to safety. Yet, the money-market stress comes amid a transition to a new phase of the financial and economic cycle. It is a time when those who fail to prepare can be exposed—and in the past such shifts have led to the collapse of hedge funds and banks, and even sovereign defaults.

Today's insistent warning is coming from the extra cost that banks pay to borrow dollars from each other—the London interbank offered rate—above where Federal Reserve rates are expected to be over the next three months, measured using the almost risk-free overnight indexed swaps. In the 2007 credit crunch and 2012 euro crisis, the rising Libor-OIS spread was a sign that banks were wobbling.

Something else is going on, though. Other measures of bank credit risk such as credit-default swaps are tranquil, and there is no global shortage of dollars. Instead, the money markets are being distorted by a combination of vast U.S. government borrowing needed for the deficit-financed tax cut and companies shifting offshore money from corporate bonds into cash ready to spend. Regulatory restrictions on balance sheets limit banks' ability to step in and even out the distortions.

The trouble is that distorted money markets have real-world effects. The U.S. Treasury is crowding out short-term financing for the private sector, while the huge cash piles that companies built up are no longer available to finance other companies' bonds.

The result is that the trillions of dollars of loans tied to Libor cost more than they otherwise would, while high-quality, short-term corporate bond yields are up, albeit from low levels. The effect is similar to the Fed having raised rates twice this week, rather than once. The government is paying more on its short-term borrowing, too. The one-year Treasury bill previously tracked the bottom of the interest-rate range set by the Fed, but since the Trump tax cut it has moved up toward the top of the range, 0.25 percentage point higher even before the Fed increase.

None of this is catastrophic, but investors should be ready for hidden nasties to emerge. When markets shift regime, those who gambled everything on the old model get crushed. The first symptom of change came last month, when structured products designed to bet on volatility were cleaned out. What else is lurking?

The first to face problems from higher dollar costs are usually offshore dollar borrowers. Speculators have piled into the biggest-ever futures bets on rising cash yields for offshore dollars, known as eurodollars. But so far, there are few signs of stress for dollar borrowers outside the U.S., with cross-currency basis swaps—a way to borrow dollars using foreign currency as security—the least stressed they have been in years.

A bigger danger is what we don't know. Back in 2007, the turning of the financial cycle showed up first in subprime mortgages, then money markets, and finally troubles at British banks. Stock markets carried on up until the autumn, assuming each was an isolated event, before the true crisis arrived in 2008.

The regime shift in 1994 may be a better parallel, because banks are stronger and structured finance is less prevalent than a decade ago. The Fed's surprise rate increases in early 1994 humbled some of the biggest names in finance, with hedge-fund legend Michael Steinhardt shutting up shop the following year. But Mexico was bailed out, and U.S. stocks came through without a serious selloff.

History won't repeat precisely. But tighter financial conditions expose those who have been, as Warren Buffett puts it, swimming naked. The change in the regime is big: from dovish to hawkish, midcycle to late cycle, fearing deflation to fearing inflation. Hopefully the victims of the shift this time won't be big enough to shake the entire system.

Write to James Mackintosh at James.Mackintosh@wsj.com
   COfed : Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System   NSm131 : Money Markets | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | m13 : Money/Currency Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | e12 : Monetary Policy | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPCG/FED | G/TRE | M/EUR | N/GENI | N/IEN | N/MFO | N/MKT | N/MON | R/NME | R/US   IPDEuro | eur | WSJ | WSJ.com | WSJ.com Site Search | WSJAsia | WSJEurope | WSJ Japanese | Online | WSJ-PRO-WSJ.com | WSJSunday | FED | FEDERAL RESERVE | INTEREST RATES | LIBOR | LONDON INTERBANK | MACKINTOSH | MONEY MARKETS | OVERNIGHT INDEXED SWAPS | STREETWISE | WARNING SIGN | SB126955385469309739639045841175219972917505 | Buffett, Warren | SYND | CODES_REVIEWED   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument WSJO000020180322ee3m00565  



 HDWill BoE Follow Through on Rate Hike Threat? -- Market Talk   WC1,384 words   PD22 March 2018   ET22:52   SNDow Jones Institutional News   SCDJDN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright © 2018, Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 
   LP1752 ET - The Bank of England won't follow through on its threat to raise interest rates, reckons High Frequency Economics. The BoE voted 7-2 to keep rates unchanged at its monthly meeting. Even though inflation slowed to 2.7% from 3% and will continue to slow, the bank signaled that ongoing tightening of monetary policy would be needed over time. "We do not get it," says Carl Weinberg, chief economist at High Frequency Economics. Inflation metrics are within an acceptable radius of target and slowing, wages are expected to accelerate to a target-consistent pace, and consumer demand has already been crushed. "Why will more monetary tightening be required, especially in the face of Brexit uncertainty?" Weinberg adds. "We suspect--no, we expect--the Bank will not deliver on its threat." GBP/USD was recently at 1.4107. (david.winning@wsj.com; @dwinningWSJ)
   TD1734 ET - Now that the Trump administration has detailed tariffs against China, Australia & New Zealand Banking Group says the big question is where to from here? Trump signaled the tariff increases will be the first of many when announcing the order. In response, China said it's considering measured and proportional levies on the US, which ANZ expects will include imports of US automotive, soybean, aircraft and computer chips. "Agriculture is considered a likely target because it's one of the few sectors where America has a trade surplus with China and it's a sector weighted towards Trump's support base," ANZ adds. (david.winning@wsj.com; @dwinningWSJ)

1527 ET - As US stocks test their lows for the day, with the Dow Jones Industrial Average shedding 555 points, or 2.2%, risk assets more broadly are coming under pressure. Crude for May delivery settled down 1.3%, notching its biggest decline in two weeks, while copper and nickel contracts lost more than 1% apiece and aluminum fell 0.8%. Fears that the Trump administration's tariffs could lead to retaliatory measures from other countries have pressured stocks throughout the day while driving haven assets like the Japanese yen and gold higher. (akane.otani@wsj.com; @akaneotani)

1452 ET - Cyber attacks are a growing source of concern for the Bank of Canada, senior deputy governor Carolyn Wilkins says. Some new technologies such as cloud computing may be safer than legacy systems, Wilkins said, but risks are growing because there are more points of access to core parts of the financial system and those launching cyber attacks are becoming more sophisticated. "The systems that underpin all financial transactions in our economy are highly interconnected, and a cyber attack on one could quickly propagate and cause major disruptions," Wilkins said in speech. She says BOC is working with Payments Canada, which is responsible for Canada's clearing and settlement infrastructure, and the six biggest Canadian banks to mitigate cyber threats. (kim.mackrael@wsj.com; @kimmackrael)

1243 ET - U.S. President Donald Trump's plans for big fiscal spending programs have led investors into one of two trades. The more risk-seeking are investing in U.S. infrastructure stocks while the more risk averse are buying U.S. inflation-linked bonds, says Adam Laird, head of ETF strategy for Northern Europe at Lyxor ETF. The former invest "on the expectation that infrastructure spending will rise," while the latter are "nervous that higher spending will lead to inflation," he says. (jessica.fleetham@wsj.com)

1219 ET - European shares trade lower after the U.S. Federal Reserve voted to raise rates, ahead of an expected announcement from Washington on tariffs and restrictions that are aimed at China, but have sparked worry that the EU will also feel the impact. "Besides cars, other product groups which are vulnerable to protectionist measures by the U.S. are European exports of electronic equipment and aircrafts, and components, and even art and antiques," says Rabobank. Shares in European car companies and banks are being hit, with Fiat Chrysler trading down 4.6% and Daimler dropping 2.8%. Deutsche Bank trades down 2.8%, while Credit Suisse sheds 3.3%. (euan.conley@dowjones.com)

1133 ET - The Bank of England's language on future monetary policy was "more non-committal" than that used in the September meeting, which more clearly hinted at an upcoming rate rise which eventually happened in November, says Luigi Speranza, head of European economics at BNP Paribas. "For the Bank of England to give it a miss in May would, we think, require a substantial deterioration in UK and/or global data," he says. BNP Paribas continues to expect the next BOE meeting in May to result in a rise in interest rate, Speranza says. (emese.bartha@wsj.com; @EmeseBartha)

1127 ET - The U.S. Fed's continued pattern of rate rises, along with a likely increase of the Bank of England's base rate in May gives more scope for major European central banks to tighten policy, including the European Central Bank and Sweden's Riksbank, says Swedbank. Swedbank maintains its expectation that the BOE will raise the bank rate by 25 basis points to 0.75% at the May 10 meeting, Danin says. (emese.bartha@wsj.com; @EmeseBartha)

1114 ET - Government bond issuance in the eurozone remains in the slow lane next week, with only Italy scheduling bond auctions. Italy conducts two auctions in the short week ahead of Easter. On Monday it launches a new zero coupon note (CTZ) due in March 2020 with an offer volume of EUR2.5 billion to EUR3 billion, and it also introduces a new inflation-linked bond (BTPei) due in May 2023, offering EUR2 billion to EUR2.5 billion. Italy's second bond auction is scheduled for Wednesday, with the sale of five- and 10-year conventional bonds (BTP) and seven-year floating rate notes (CCTeu). The Italian Treasury will announce the auction details on Friday evening.(emese.bartha@wsj.com; @EmeseBartha)

1048 ET - Silence means approval, so the saying goes, and it might be true for the Bank of England. There wasn't much new in Thursday's statement and minutes accompanying the BOE's decision to leave rates unchanged. But given the market's "strong beliefs" that rates will rise in May, Rabobank says it would argue that "the bank's [BOE's] silence gives consent." Given the reduced tolerance for above-target inflation, Rabobank looks for the BOE to aim for a second rate rise in November, says Stefan Koopman, Rabobank market economist. Preconditions for a second rate rise, however, will be that trade talks between the EU and the U.K. are relatively smooth and that a pick-up in wage inflation will be sustained, he says. (emese.bartha@wsj.com; @EmeseBartha)

1041 ET - U.K. exports would need to grow by 12% in the first year after Brexit, and by 6% thereafter, "to get the economy back to an even keel of the position before Brexit," according to Hermes Investment Management. The U.K. still runs a large trade deficit, despite falls in the pound being advantageous for exporters. The U.K. global trade in goods deficit stood at GBP12.3 billion in January. (olga.cotaga@wsj.com; @OlgaCotaga)

1025 ET - Sterling quickly pulled back from its initial gains after the Bank of England left interest rates on hold but two out of its nine policymakers voted to raise rates quickly. Yujiro Goto, forex strategist at Nomura, attributes this to a rise in global risk aversion. The "sterling move isn't due to the Bank of England," he says. Equities are grinding lower globally because of global trade war tensions given that Thursday is the day when U.S. President Donald Trump is expected to announce trade tariffs against China. Also, "a hawkish BOE isn't good for [U.K.] equities," Mr. Goto says, even though rising interest rates should in theory boost the currency. GBP/USD last trades down 0.15% at 1.4119 while EUR/GBP trades flat at 0.8726. The FTSE 100 index is down 1.2%.(olga.cotaga@wsj.com; @OlgaCotaga)

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

March 22, 2018 17:52 ET (21:52 GMT)
   CObnkeng : Bank of England | euruno : European Union   NSghack : Cybercrime/Hacking | e12 : Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | gdip : International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | namt : All Market Talk | ndjmt : Dow Jones Market Talk | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | nfiac : Fixed Income Asset Class News | nfxacb : Forex Asset Class Basic News | nfxacp : Forex Asset Class Premium News | nfxmt : Foreign Exchange Market Talk | gcat : Political/General News | gcrim : Crime/Legal Action | gpir : Politics/International Relations | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter   REusa : United States | eurz : Europe | uk : United Kingdom | eecz : European Union Countries | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument DJDN000020180322ee3m0046p  



 HDEuropean Stocks Fall Ahead of US Tariffs Announcement -- Market Talk   WC1,406 words   PD22 March 2018   ET17:20   SNDow Jones Institutional News   SCDJDN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright © 2018, Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 
   LP1219 ET - European shares trade lower after the U.S. Federal Reserve voted to raise rates, ahead of an expected announcement from Washington on tariffs and restrictions that are aimed at China, but have sparked worry that the EU will also feel the impact. "Besides cars, other product groups which are vulnerable to protectionist measures by the U.S. are European exports of electronic equipment and aircrafts, and components, and even art and antiques," says Rabobank. Shares in European car companies and banks are being hit, with Fiat Chrysler trading down 4.6% and Daimler dropping 2.8%. Deutsche Bank trades down 2.8%, while Credit Suisse sheds 3.3%. (euan.conley@dowjones.com)
   TD1133 ET - The Bank of England's language on future monetary policy was "more non-committal" than that used in the September meeting, which more clearly hinted at an upcoming rate rise which eventually happened in November, says Luigi Speranza, head of European economics at BNP Paribas. "For the Bank of England to give it a miss in May would, we think, require a substantial deterioration in UK and/or global data," he says. BNP Paribas continues to expect the next BOE meeting in May to result in a rise in interest rate, Speranza says. (emese.bartha@wsj.com; @EmeseBartha)

1127 ET - The U.S. Fed's continued pattern of rate rises, along with a likely increase of the Bank of England's base rate in May gives more scope for major European central banks to tighten policy, including the European Central Bank and Sweden's Riksbank, says Swedbank. Swedbank maintains its expectation that the BOE will raise the bank rate by 25 basis points to 0.75% at the May 10 meeting, Danin says. (emese.bartha@wsj.com; @EmeseBartha)

1114 ET - Government bond issuance in the eurozone remains in the slow lane next week, with only Italy scheduling bond auctions. Italy conducts two auctions in the short week ahead of Easter. On Monday it launches a new zero coupon note (CTZ) due in March 2020 with an offer volume of EUR2.5 billion to EUR3 billion, and it also introduces a new inflation-linked bond (BTPei) due in May 2023, offering EUR2 billion to EUR2.5 billion. Italy's second bond auction is scheduled for Wednesday, with the sale of five- and 10-year conventional bonds (BTP) and seven-year floating rate notes (CCTeu). The Italian Treasury will announce the auction details on Friday evening.(emese.bartha@wsj.com; @EmeseBartha)

1048 ET - Silence means approval, so the saying goes, and it might be true for the Bank of England. There wasn't much new in Thursday's statement and minutes accompanying the BOE's decision to leave rates unchanged. But given the market's "strong beliefs" that rates will rise in May, Rabobank says it would argue that "the bank's [BOE's] silence gives consent." Given the reduced tolerance for above-target inflation, Rabobank looks for the BOE to aim for a second rate rise in November, says Stefan Koopman, Rabobank market economist. Preconditions for a second rate rise, however, will be that trade talks between the EU and the U.K. are relatively smooth and that a pick-up in wage inflation will be sustained, he says. (emese.bartha@wsj.com; @EmeseBartha)

1041 ET - U.K. exports would need to grow by 12% in the first year after Brexit, and by 6% thereafter, "to get the economy back to an even keel of the position before Brexit," according to Hermes Investment Management. The U.K. still runs a large trade deficit, despite falls in the pound being advantageous for exporters. The U.K. global trade in goods deficit stood at GBP12.3 billion in January. (olga.cotaga@wsj.com; @OlgaCotaga)

1025 ET - Sterling quickly pulled back from its initial gains after the Bank of England left interest rates on hold but two out of its nine policymakers voted to raise rates quickly. Yujiro Goto, forex strategist at Nomura, attributes this to a rise in global risk aversion. The "sterling move isn't due to the Bank of England," he says. Equities are grinding lower globally because of global trade war tensions given that Thursday is the day when U.S. President Donald Trump is expected to announce trade tariffs against China. Also, "a hawkish BOE isn't good for [U.K.] equities," Mr. Goto says, even though rising interest rates should in theory boost the currency. GBP/USD last trades down 0.15% at 1.4119 while EUR/GBP trades flat at 0.8726. The FTSE 100 index is down 1.2%.(olga.cotaga@wsj.com; @OlgaCotaga)

0952 ET - A rise in global risk aversion is weighing on EUR/USD as investors expect U.S. President Donald Trump to announce trade tariffs on China, but EUR/USD hasn't broken below the 1.23 level, falling to a low of 1.2304. There are options strikes of 1.2350 and 1.2400 in EUR/USD that are due to expire on Thursday and are worth close to $1 billion each, according to RBC, which could partially explain why the euro is holding above the 1.23 level. EUR/USD last dow0.24% at 1.2310. (olga.cotaga@wsj.com; @OlgaCotaga)

0948 ET - Two members of the Bank of England's Monetary Policy Committee dissenting and voting for a rate increase on Thursday is a "hint at a rate raise in May," says DZ Bank analyst Soeren Hettler. For now the BOE left the base rate unchanged at 0.50%, in line with expectations. Sterling could only briefly benefit from the outcome, with its gains evaporating quickly, he says. This is likely to do mostly with the fact that the U.K. currency had already risen significantly in the past few days, Hettler says. The BOE raised rate in November, for the first time in about a decade. GBP/USD last down 0.1% at 1.4121, EUR/GBP flat at 0.8725. (emese.bartha@wsj.com; @EmeseBartha)

0938 ET - A Brexit transition deal means more time to negotiate a trade deal, but at the physical border between the U.K. and the EU there is no infrastructure in place that could enable trucks to be pulled aside and be inspected, which would have to happen when the U.K. is no longer be part of the common market, says Alvin Tan, director of forex strategy at Societe Generale. Also, the U.K. is "completely lacking a set of institutions," says Eoin Murray, head of investment at Hermes Investment Management. "The U.K. is going from a situation where it outsourced virtually all trade and regulatory functions to Brussels, to a state of bringing them back to Westminster." (olga.cotaga@wsj.com; @OlgaCotaga)

0935 ET - US government bonds gained after a series of weak economic reports from rising unemployment in Australia to softening business morale in Germany. Bonds are also benefiting from concerns about the rise of restrictive trade policies which come to the forefront as President Donald Trump is scheduled to enact tariffs against China. The Federal Reserve raised interest rates Wednesday, with the number of policy makers forecasting four rate increases this year to seven, which was not enough to raise the median projection to four increases, but signaled an increasingly strong commitment to fighting inflation. The benchmark 10-year Treasury note yield fell to a recent 2.828% from 2.901% Wednesday. (daniel.kruger@wsj.com)

0932 ET - U.S. President Donald Trump is expected to announce tariffs on Chinese products Thursday, but how this plays out for currencies "is not particularly straightforward," says Saxo Bank. Worries of global trade wars would trigger risk-off moves, which could "benefit the dollar," according to John Hardy, head of FX strategy at Saxo Bank. "Weak risk appetite from here...could see general de-leveraging of USD shorts and a preference for the liquidity of the USD," he writes in a note. It's the euro that would be hurt, given that eurozone is a surplus economy, and it's that surplus that would be at risk, Mr. Hardy says. (olga.cotaga@wsj.com; @OlgaCotaga)

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

March 22, 2018 12:20 ET (16:20 GMT)
   COfed : Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System   NSe12 : Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | namt : All Market Talk | ndjmt : Dow Jones Market Talk | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | nfiac : Fixed Income Asset Class News | nfxacb : Forex Asset Class Basic News | nfxacp : Forex Asset Class Premium News | nmsmc : Main Stock Market Commentary | nsmcm : Stock Market Commentary | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters   REusa : United States | china : China | italy : Italy | eurz : Europe | uk : United Kingdom | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | eecz : European Union Countries | medz : Mediterranean | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument DJDN000020180322ee3m002ox  



 HDGlobal Forex and Fixed Income Roundup: Market Talk   WC1,426 words   PD22 March 2018   ET16:27   SNDow Jones Institutional News   SCDJDN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright © 2018, Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 
   LPThe latest Market Talks covering FX and Fixed Income. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

1127 ET - The U.S. Fed's continued pattern of rate rises, along with a likely increase of the Bank of England's base rate in May gives more scope for major European central banks to tighten policy, including the European Central Bank and Sweden's Riksbank, says Swedbank. Swedbank maintains its expectation that the BOE will raise the bank rate by 25 basis points to 0.75% at the May 10 meeting, Danin says. (emese.bartha@wsj.com; @EmeseBartha)
   TD1114 ET - Government bond issuance in the eurozone remains in the slow lane next week, with only Italy scheduling bond auctions. Italy conducts two auctions in the short week ahead of Easter. On Monday it launches a new zero coupon note (CTZ) due in March 2020 with an offer volume of EUR2.5 billion to EUR3 billion, and it also introduces a new inflation-linked bond (BTPei) due in May 2023, offering EUR2 billion to EUR2.5 billion. Italy's second bond auction is scheduled for Wednesday, with the sale of five- and 10-year conventional bonds (BTP) and seven-year floating rate notes (CCTeu). The Italian Treasury will announce the auction details on Friday evening.(emese.bartha@wsj.com; @EmeseBartha)

1048 ET - Silence means approval, so the saying goes, and it might be true for the Bank of England. There wasn't much new in Thursday's statement and minutes accompanying the BOE's decision to leave rates unchanged. But given the market's "strong beliefs" that rates will rise in May, Rabobank says it would argue that "the bank's [BOE's] silence gives consent." Given the reduced tolerance for above-target inflation, Rabobank looks for the BOE to aim for a second rate rise in November, says Stefan Koopman, Rabobank market economist. Preconditions for a second rate rise, however, will be that trade talks between the EU and the U.K. are relatively smooth and that a pick-up in wage inflation will be sustained, he says. (emese.bartha@wsj.com; @EmeseBartha)

1041 ET - U.K. exports would need to grow by 12% in the first year after Brexit, and by 6% thereafter, "to get the economy back to an even keel of the position before Brexit," according to Hermes Investment Management. The U.K. still runs a large trade deficit, despite falls in the pound being advantageous for exporters. The U.K. global trade in goods deficit stood at GBP12.3 billion in January. (olga.cotaga@wsj.com; @OlgaCotaga)

1025 ET - Sterling quickly pulled back from its initial gains after the Bank of England left interest rates on hold but two out of its nine policymakers voted to raise rates quickly. Yujiro Goto, forex strategist at Nomura, attributes this to a rise in global risk aversion. The "sterling move isn't due to the Bank of England," he says. Equities are grinding lower globally because of global trade war tensions given that Thursday is the day when U.S. President Donald Trump is expected to announce trade tariffs against China. Also, "a hawkish BOE isn't good for [U.K.] equities," Mr. Goto says, even though rising interest rates should in theory boost the currency. GBP/USD last trades down 0.15% at 1.4119 while EUR/GBP trades flat at 0.8726. The FTSE 100 index is down 1.2%.(olga.cotaga@wsj.com; @OlgaCotaga)

0952 ET - A rise in global risk aversion is weighing on EUR/USD as investors expect U.S. President Donald Trump to announce trade tariffs on China, but EUR/USD hasn't broken below the 1.23 level, falling to a low of 1.2304. There are options strikes of 1.2350 and 1.2400 in EUR/USD that are due to expire on Thursday and are worth close to $1 billion each, according to RBC, which could partially explain why the euro is holding above the 1.23 level. EUR/USD last dow0.24% at 1.2310. (olga.cotaga@wsj.com; @OlgaCotaga)

0948 ET - Two members of the Bank of England's Monetary Policy Committee dissenting and voting for a rate increase on Thursday is a "hint at a rate raise in May," says DZ Bank analyst Soeren Hettler. For now the BOE left the base rate unchanged at 0.50%, in line with expectations. Sterling could only briefly benefit from the outcome, with its gains evaporating quickly, he says. This is likely to do mostly with the fact that the U.K. currency had already risen significantly in the past few days, Hettler says. The BOE raised rate in November, for the first time in about a decade. GBP/USD last down 0.1% at 1.4121, EUR/GBP flat at 0.8725. (emese.bartha@wsj.com; @EmeseBartha)

0938 ET - A Brexit transition deal means more time to negotiate a trade deal, but at the physical border between the U.K. and the EU there is no infrastructure in place that could enable trucks to be pulled aside and be inspected, which would have to happen when the U.K. is no longer be part of the common market, says Alvin Tan, director of forex strategy at Societe Generale. Also, the U.K. is "completely lacking a set of institutions," says Eoin Murray, head of investment at Hermes Investment Management. "The U.K. is going from a situation where it outsourced virtually all trade and regulatory functions to Brussels, to a state of bringing them back to Westminster." (olga.cotaga@wsj.com; @OlgaCotaga)

0935 ET - US government bonds gained after a series of weak economic reports from rising unemployment in Australia to softening business morale in Germany. Bonds are also benefiting from concerns about the rise of restrictive trade policies which come to the forefront as President Donald Trump is scheduled to enact tariffs against China. The Federal Reserve raised interest rates Wednesday, with the number of policy makers forecasting four rate increases this year to seven, which was not enough to raise the median projection to four increases, but signaled an increasingly strong commitment to fighting inflation. The benchmark 10-year Treasury note yield fell to a recent 2.828% from 2.901% Wednesday. (daniel.kruger@wsj.com)

0932 ET - U.S. President Donald Trump is expected to announce tariffs on Chinese products Thursday, but how this plays out for currencies "is not particularly straightforward," says Saxo Bank. Worries of global trade wars would trigger risk-off moves, which could "benefit the dollar," according to John Hardy, head of FX strategy at Saxo Bank. "Weak risk appetite from here...could see general de-leveraging of USD shorts and a preference for the liquidity of the USD," he writes in a note. It's the euro that would be hurt, given that eurozone is a surplus economy, and it's that surplus that would be at risk, Mr. Hardy says. (olga.cotaga@wsj.com; @OlgaCotaga)

0916 ET - Commodity-linked currencies, such as the Canadian and Australian dollars, are most likely to benefit from the any fall in the dollar, mainly due to their recent underperformance, says UniCredit. "From a fundamental perspective, the CAD has the most room to appreciate" given that it's "undervalued" and that oil prices are "supportive". The Australian dollar should also rise, given that "the pricing of the tightening cycle remains far too benign," UniCredit says. USD/CAD is last flat at 1.2902, while AUD/USD is down 0.7% at 0.7711. (olga.cotaga@wsj.com; @OlgaCotaga)

0905 ET - Having laid the ground work with February's inflation report, the dissenters at March's meeting and accompanying statement will encourage interest rate markets to fully discount a tightening by the Bank of England at its May's meeting, says Michael Metcalfe, global head of macro strategy at State Street Global Markets. The BOE left the bank rate unchanged at 0.5% as expected on Thursday. "Given the fact that economic data has not been altogether positive in the past month, this will likely underline the committee's resolve to begin the slow process of normalising monetary policy in the face of still stubbornly high inflation, but very tepid growth," Metcalfe says. (emese.bartha@wsj.com; @EmeseBartha)

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

March 22, 2018 11:27 ET (15:27 GMT)
   COriksbk : Sveriges Riksbank | bnkeng : Bank of England | eurcb : European Central Bank   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services   NSe12 : Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m132 : Foreign Exchange Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | namt : All Market Talk | ndjmt : Dow Jones Market Talk | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | nfiac : Fixed Income Asset Class News | nfxacb : Forex Asset Class Basic News | nfxacp : Forex Asset Class Premium News | ecat : Economic News | m13 : Money/Currency Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter   REitaly : Italy | eurz : Europe | swed : Sweden | uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | eecz : European Union Countries | medz : Mediterranean | namz : North America | nordz : Nordic Countries | scandz : Scandinavia | weurz : Western Europe   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument DJDN000020180322ee3m002ia  



 HDPound Falls Reflect Global Risk Sentiment: Nomura -- Market Talk   WC1,341 words   PD22 March 2018   ET15:25   SNDow Jones Institutional News   SCDJDN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright © 2018, Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 
   LP1025 ET - Sterling quickly pulled back from its initial gains after the Bank of England left interest rates on hold but two out of its nine policymakers voted to raise rates quickly. Yujiro Goto, forex strategist at Nomura, attributes this to a rise in global risk aversion. The "sterling move isn't due to the Bank of England," he says. Equities are grinding lower globally because of global trade war tensions given that Thursday is the day when U.S. President Donald Trump is expected to announce trade tariffs against China. Also, "a hawkish BOE isn't good for [U.K.] equities," Mr. Goto says, even though rising interest rates should in theory boost the currency. GBP/USD last trades down 0.15% at 1.4119 while EUR/GBP trades flat at 0.8726. The FTSE 100 index is down 1.2%.(olga.cotaga@wsj.com; @OlgaCotaga)
   TD0952 ET - A rise in global risk aversion is weighing on EUR/USD as investors expect U.S. President Donald Trump to announce trade tariffs on China, but EUR/USD hasn't broken below the 1.23 level, falling to a low of 1.2304. There are options strikes of 1.2350 and 1.2400 in EUR/USD that are due to expire on Thursday and are worth close to $1 billion each, according to RBC, which could partially explain why the euro is holding above the 1.23 level. EUR/USD last dow0.24% at 1.2310. (olga.cotaga@wsj.com; @OlgaCotaga)

0948 ET - Two members of the Bank of England's Monetary Policy Committee dissenting and voting for a rate increase on Thursday is a "hint at a rate raise in May," says DZ Bank analyst Soeren Hettler. For now the BOE left the base rate unchanged at 0.50%, in line with expectations. Sterling could only briefly benefit from the outcome, with its gains evaporating quickly, he says. This is likely to do mostly with the fact that the U.K. currency had already risen significantly in the past few days, Hettler says. The BOE raised rate in November, for the first time in about a decade. GBP/USD last down 0.1% at 1.4121, EUR/GBP flat at 0.8725. (emese.bartha@wsj.com; @EmeseBartha)

0938 ET - A Brexit transition deal means more time to negotiate a trade deal, but at the physical border between the U.K. and the EU there is no infrastructure in place that could enable trucks to be pulled aside and be inspected, which would have to happen when the U.K. is no longer be part of the common market, says Alvin Tan, director of forex strategy at Societe Generale. Also, the U.K. is "completely lacking a set of institutions," says Eoin Murray, head of investment at Hermes Investment Management. "The U.K. is going from a situation where it outsourced virtually all trade and regulatory functions to Brussels, to a state of bringing them back to Westminster." (olga.cotaga@wsj.com; @OlgaCotaga)

0935 ET - US government bonds gained after a series of weak economic reports from rising unemployment in Australia to softening business morale in Germany. Bonds are also benefiting from concerns about the rise of restrictive trade policies which come to the forefront as President Donald Trump is scheduled to enact tariffs against China. The Federal Reserve raised interest rates Wednesday, with the number of policy makers forecasting four rate increases this year to seven, which was not enough to raise the median projection to four increases, but signaled an increasingly strong commitment to fighting inflation. The benchmark 10-year Treasury note yield fell to a recent 2.828% from 2.901% Wednesday. (daniel.kruger@wsj.com)

0932 ET - U.S. President Donald Trump is expected to announce tariffs on Chinese products Thursday, but how this plays out for currencies "is not particularly straightforward," says Saxo Bank. Worries of global trade wars would trigger risk-off moves, which could "benefit the dollar," according to John Hardy, head of FX strategy at Saxo Bank. "Weak risk appetite from here...could see general de-leveraging of USD shorts and a preference for the liquidity of the USD," he writes in a note. It's the euro that would be hurt, given that eurozone is a surplus economy, and it's that surplus that would be at risk, Mr. Hardy says. (olga.cotaga@wsj.com; @OlgaCotaga)

0916 ET - Commodity-linked currencies, such as the Canadian and Australian dollars, are most likely to benefit from the any fall in the dollar, mainly due to their recent underperformance, says UniCredit. "From a fundamental perspective, the CAD has the most room to appreciate" given that it's "undervalued" and that oil prices are "supportive". The Australian dollar should also rise, given that "the pricing of the tightening cycle remains far too benign," UniCredit says. USD/CAD is last flat at 1.2902, while AUD/USD is down 0.7% at 0.7711. (olga.cotaga@wsj.com; @OlgaCotaga)

0905 ET - Having laid the ground work with February's inflation report, the dissenters at March's meeting and accompanying statement will encourage interest rate markets to fully discount a tightening by the Bank of England at its May's meeting, says Michael Metcalfe, global head of macro strategy at State Street Global Markets. The BOE left the bank rate unchanged at 0.5% as expected on Thursday. "Given the fact that economic data has not been altogether positive in the past month, this will likely underline the committee's resolve to begin the slow process of normalising monetary policy in the face of still stubbornly high inflation, but very tepid growth," Metcalfe says. (emese.bartha@wsj.com; @EmeseBartha)

0859 ET - There's much to influence EUR/USD fundamentally, but from a technical charting point of view, a rise above the 1.2367 level, which happened in the early European trading session, should take it to 1.2413 and then to 1.2447, according to Commerzbank technical analysts. If EUR/USD rose "unexpectedly" above 1.2447, then 1.2538 and 1.2556 would be in focus, analysts say. EUR/USD last down 0.1% at 1.2318. (olga.cotaga@wsj.com; @OlgaCotaga)

0850 ET - Two separate continuing claims measures reached historically low levels in a Labor Department report, providing further evidence of a buoyant labor market. The number of claims made by workers longer than a week -- so called continuing claims -- fell to the lowest level since December 1973, according to Thursday's release. Continuing claims dropped to 1,828,000, a decrease of 57,000 from the previous week. The four-week moving average for continuing claims -- which evens out weekly volatility -- touched the lowest level for the average since January 1974. The numbers arrive just one day after the Federal Reserve projected lower unemployment in the coming years and signaled it could pick up the pace of rate increases to cool economic growth after next year. (sarah.chaney@wsj.com)

0848 ET - It won't be long before interest rates finally creep up, says Samantha Seaton, chief executive of Moneyhub. The Bank of England has confirmed at least one rate rise for 2018 to help inflation get back on target, she says, adding that a May rise is "most likely", though this could be pushed back if inflation continues to fall. (emese.bartha@wsj.com; @EmeseBartha)

0845 ET - Thursday's Bank of England's rate announcement leaves it more likely that interest rates will rise in May. Kacper Brzezniak, a fund manager at Allianz Global Investors, said that the BOE rate-setting committee's 7-2 vote to leave rates on hold, with two votes for a rate rise, "suggests that the likelihood of a May hike is very high." (jon.sindreu@wsj.com)

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

March 22, 2018 10:25 ET (14:25 GMT)
   CObnkeng : Bank of England   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Monetary Policy | m132 : Foreign Exchange Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | namt : All Market Talk | ndjmt : Dow Jones Market Talk | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | nfiac : Fixed Income Asset Class News | nfxacb : Forex Asset Class Basic News | nfxacp : Forex Asset Class Premium News | nfxmt : Foreign Exchange Market Talk | ecat : Economic News | m13 : Money/Currency Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter   REchina : China | eurz : Europe | uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | eecz : European Union Countries | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument DJDN000020180322ee3m0029z  



 HDBOE Holds Steady as May Aims for Brexit Transition Deal   WC577 words   PD22 March 2018   ET13:30   SNDow Jones Institutional News   SCDJDN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright © 2018, Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 
   LPLONDON—The Bank of England signaled that it remains on course to lift interest rates in Britain this year and next, as figures showed a yearlong squeeze on consumers caused by a steep fall in the pound appears to be coming to an end.

The British economy is nevertheless expected to trail its peers in 2018 as uncertainty over Brexit stifles business investment. The government hopes that a deal on a key aspect of withdrawal expected to be formally agreed by European Union leaders in Brussels later Thursday will help get firms spending again.
   TDThe BOE said Thursday that a majority of officials on its nine-member Monetary Policy Committee agreed to keep the central bank’s benchmark interest rate steady this month at 0.5%.

The panel raised the benchmark rate for the first time in a decade in November and telegraphed that further increases are likely over the next couple of years to keep inflation in check.

Seven of the BOE’s nine officials voted to hold off for now, arguing that incoming data on growth and inflation don’t yet justify another rise. Two officials, Michael Saunders and Ian McCafferty, dissented, saying that a modest tightening in policy immediately would help officials keep the path of future interest-rate increases slow and steady.

Economists and investors believe the next increase from the BOE could come as soon as May. The U.S. Federal Reserve on Wednesday lifted short-term rates in the U.S. and signaled further increases are expected as the U.S. enjoys a robust expansion.

The BOE’s decision comes as Prime Minister Theresa May meets other European leaders in Brussels, where they are expected to sign off on the terms of a transition period to bridge the gap between Britain’s EU exit in March 2019 and a final agreement on the terms of the country’s future ties to the bloc. The transition period is expected to last until the end of 2020.

Minutes of the BOE’s policy meeting underscored how officials believe that greater clarity over Britain’s post-EU future would aid the economy, which was among the weakest performers among advanced economies in 2017 despite a rare, synchronized upswing world-wide.

The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development forecasts annual growth of just 1.3% for the U.K. this year—a much weaker pace of growth than that expected in the U.S., Germany, France and Italy.

“Developments regarding the United Kingdom’s withdrawal from the European Union—and in particular the reaction of households, businesses and asset prices to them—remain the most significant influence on, and source of uncertainty about, the economic outlook,” the BOE’s rate-setting panel said.

One bright spot: The panel noted that a squeeze on consumers from meager wage growth and high inflation triggered by a steep fall in the pound after 2016’s Brexit vote appears to be fading. Annual inflation slowed in February and retail sales rebounded after a poor start to the year, figures showed this week, while wage growth picked up modestly in January.

The pound jumped after the announcement, but settled back quickly to trade roughly flat with the dollar.

Write to Jason Douglas at jason.douglas@wsj.com and Wiktor Szary at Wiktor.Szary@wsj.com

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

March 22, 2018 08:30 ET (12:30 GMT)
   CObnkeng : Bank of England | euruno : European Union   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services   NSe12 : Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | gdip : International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | ntop : Top Wire News | nttwn : Today's Top Wire News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | ndj : Dow Jones Top Stories | redit : Selection of Top Stories/Trends/Analysis   REuk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | eurz : Europe | eecz : European Union Countries | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument DJDN000020180322ee3m001qc  



 HDFed Signals More Aggressive Path --- U.S. central bank lifts benchmark rate and expects at least two more moves this year   BYBy Nick Timiraos    WC891 words   PD22 March 2018   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGA1   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2018 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
   LPWASHINGTON -- Federal Reserve officials signaled Wednesday they could pick up the pace of interest-rate increases to cool economic growth after next year.

The Fed voted unanimously to raise its benchmark federal-funds rate by a quarter-percentage point to a range between 1.5% and 1.75%. Officials said they expected to lift it another two or three times this year, and three times in 2019.
   TDNew forecasts show officials project faster economic growth, higher inflation and lower unemployment in coming years. They indicated they expect they will need to tap on the monetary brakes, raising rates in 2020 to a level that would mark the first time in more than a decade that interest-rate policy was deliberately restrictive.

Fed Chairman Jerome Powell, in his first news conference as the central bank's chief, said officials want to balance two risks. One is that they raise rates too much, causing inflation to stay below their 2% target and damaging the Fed's credibility. The other is that they raise rates too slowly, letting the economy overheat and forcing them to move more quickly, triggering a recession.

"We're trying to take the middle ground, and the committee continues to believe that the middle ground consists of further gradual increases in the federal-funds rate," Mr. Powell said.

The rate increase approved Wednesday was widely expected. Before the Fed announcement, traders in futures markets already anticipated the Fed would raise rates a total of three times this year and placed a roughly 40% probability on at least four interest-rate increases this year, according to CME Group, an operator of futures exchanges.

"The Fed delivered everything they've telegraphed: strong growth, a flat trajectory on inflation and a marginally steeper path of rates," said Ed Al-Hussainy, senior global rates strategist at Columbia Threadneedle Investments, an asset manager.

Stocks seesawed after the Fed's announcement and closed lower Wednesday.

The Dow Jones Industrial Average closed down 44.96 points, or 0.2%, at 24682.31, after earlier rising as much as 250 points immediately following the Fed decision. The S&P 500 declined 5.01 points, or 0.2%, to 2711.93, while the Nasdaq Composite fell 19.02 points, or 0.3%, to 7345.29.

Investors had been braced for a more aggressive position from the Fed in the near term, Mr. Al-Hussainy said. The yield on the benchmark 10-year U.S. Treasury note climbed to 2.901% from 2.881% Tuesday. Bond yields rise as prices fall.

Before the meeting, investors' were eager to see how the Fed would react to the tax cuts and government-spending increase recently approved by Congress and President Donald Trump. Both are expected to boost economic growth.

Most Fed officials still expect to raise rates no more than three times this year. But more central bankers said they now anticipate increasing rates four times this year; seven of 15 penciled in four rate increases, up from four of 16 in December.

Most Fed officials expect to lift rates at least another three times in 2019, followed by another two times in 2020. At the December meeting, officials projected around two increases would be needed in both 2019 and 2020.

The projected moves would leave the fed-funds rate in a range between 3.25% and 3.5% by 2020. Such a level would be slightly restrictive of growth because it is nearly one half a percentage point above the level policy makers estimate would neither spur nor curb economic activity over the long run.

"Taken at face value, it's a signal there is a consensus that says, 'We might have to tighten too much,'" said Roberto Perli, an analyst at research firm Cornerstone Macro.

Fed officials now expect the unemployment rate to decline to 3.8% by the end of this year and to 3.6% by the end of 2019, from 4.1%, where it has held since October. That is almost a full point below the rate officials expect to prevail over the long run.

Wall Street economists expect the recent changes in tax policy and government spending will push unemployment even lower than the Fed has projected next year, to levels that haven't been seen since the Korean War. Economists said it is unclear what that could do to inflation or financial stability.

The Fed has a poor record of trying to cool the economy without triggering a recession.

"It's a risky thing to do, but they might feel they have to do it because this fiscal stimulus is coming at the wrong time," Mr. Perli said.

Mr. Powell said policy under the forecast laid out Wednesday would turn "modestly restrictive" by 2020. But he also played it down by pointing to the difficulty of forecasting that far into the future.

"You could imagine narratives in which that [forecast] would make sense, but honestly, I wouldn't put too much on that," he said.

Officials release economic projections every quarter. Their latest figures show they now expect inflation to rise above their 2% target next year and to stay there in 2020.





License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   COfed : Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Monetary Policy | m11 : Equity Markets | ecat : Economic News | nimage : Images | npag : Page-One Stories | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCPIC | FED | USG | NND | PGO | TPT   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument J000000020180322ee3m0001u  
 Real Time Economics: Fed Raises Rates | U.S., China Clash on Trade | Baby Boomers Hit the 'Burbs
WSJ Blogs, 12:03, 22 March 2018, 1565 words, (English)
This is the web version of the WSJ's daily economic newsletter. You can sign up for daily delivery here.
In today's issue, the Federal Reserve raises rates, the U.S. softens on trade with allies but sharpens with China, U.S. farmers and ...
Document WCWSJB0020180322ee3m000dx



 HDUPDATE 3-China raises a key market  interest rate , following Fed's move   WC995 words   PD22 March 2018   ET09:20   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2018 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved. 
   LP* Market had expected 5-10 bps move from PBOC after a Fed hike

* PBOC says rise is normal market reaction after U.S. rate rise
   TD* Move is first policy action under new PBOC Governor Yi Gang

* Could ease any pressure on yuan if US dollar continues to weaken

* Also signals continued clampdown on riskier lending practices (Adds sources saying China also raised SLF rates)

By Winni Zhou and John Ruwitch

SHANGHAI, March 22 (Reuters) - China gingerly raised a key short-term interest rate on Thursday following the U.S. Federal Reserve Bank's move overnight, in a symbolic reminder that Beijing is keeping an eye on global market trends even as it cracks down on financial risks at home.

The People's Bank of China (PBOC) said it had increased the rate on 7-day reverse repurchase agreements by 5 basis points (bps) to 2.55 percent. Reverse repos are one of its most commonly used tools to control liquidity in the financial system.

The Fed raised U.S. interest rates by 25 bps, or a quarter of a percentage point, on Wednesday and forecast at least two more hikes for 2018.

The PBOC's move had been widely expected and was its first major policy decision under new Governor Yi Gang, who was appointed by parliament on Monday as part of a sweeping reshuffle of China's cabinet under ever-stronger President Xi Jinping.

"I think it's just a symbolic rate hike again to avoid the China-U.S. rate spread from widening too much," said Ken Cheung, senior FX strategist at Mizuho Bank in Hong Kong.

"A 5 bps hike is enough because yuan depreciation is not a big concern. And the PBOC is refraining from lifting rates aggressively amid the regulation reform and benign inflation pressure."

The news prompted Chinese 10-year treasury futures for June delivery to rise as much as 0.3 percent to 93.475. By 0700 GMT the most traded contract had eased to around 93.375, up about 0.2 percent.

The PBOC also injected 10 billion yuan ($1.58 billion) into the financial system on Thursday.

AVOIDING A BLOW-OUT

Many market watchers had expected the PBOC to follow a Fed hike with a 5-10 bps increase in the borrowing cost for Chinese interbank loans.

That would keep the U.S.-China rate differential from getting too wide -- which would risk a resurgence in capital outflows from China.

But analysts said the move was also a signal to banks and other financial institutions that the government is pressing ahead this year with its campaign to reduce risks in the financial system.

Capital Economics said in a note that it believed the rate hike was an effort by the PBOC to show it would follow the Fed to minimise outflows and prevent a yield gap blow-out.

But the consultancy added that the PBOC may revert to looser monetary conditions in coming quarters if economic activity cools more than expected.

The PBOC had similarly inched up some rates after the Fed hiked its policy rate last March and December.

It began nudging up short-term market rates and those of its other liquidity tools in early 2017 as authorities' clampdown on riskier financing practices kicked into higher gear, but it has moved cautiously to avoid a hit to the economy.

In a statement, the PBOC said the rate increase was a normal response to the Fed's move that would help shape interest rate expectations and guide "reasonable" growth in credit.

The PBOC also raised rates on its standing lending facility (SLF) short-term loans by 5 bps, three sources with direct knowledge of the matter said.

FOLLOW SUIT

With global markets expecting more monetary tightening in the United States, economists think China will raise market rates again, although there is no clear consensus on how high they may go.

Nie Wen, an economist at Hwabao Trust in Shanghai, expected the PBOC to raise market rates by a total of 25 bps this year, but possibly as much as 50 bps if consumer inflation in China rises above 3 percent.

Economists at ANZ expect the 7-day reverse repo rate to rise another 30 bps this year as the PBOC continues with a tightening bias.

However, much of the official focus this year is expected to be on a continued tightening of the regulatory screws, with a flurry of measures already announced in the last few months.

BALANCING ACT

Some market watchers also expect the PBOC to start moving benchmark rates again, but said the move would be asymmetric, with only the deposit rate rising to haul negative real deposit rates above the water line.

The PBOC has not changed its benchmark one-year lending and deposit rates since October 2015, with the central bank preferring to guide borrowing costs via liquidity operations and interbank market rates.

"On the one hand, the PBOC needs to push up the interest rate in the domestic financial market, so as to curb domestic financial speculation and prevent capital outflow," said Chaoping Zhu, global market strategist at J.P. Morgan Asset Management.

"On the other, given the probability of a correction in asset prices and the potential for economic slowdown, it is not an optimal choice to adjust up the benchmark deposit and lending rates. Therefore, increasing the 7-day reverse repo rate provides the PBOC with the flexibility to control market liquidity and financing costs."

Analysts polled by Reuters expect China's GDP growth to slow to 6.5 percent this year from 6.9 percent in 2017, pressured by higher borrowing costs and cooling investment in the property market. That would be in line with the government's 2018 target. ($1 = 6.3145 Chinese yuan renminbi) (Reporting by Winni Zhou and John Ruwitch; Editing by Kim Coghill) 
   RFReleased: 2018-3-22T09:20:43.000Z   COpbchin : The People's Bank of China | fed : Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System   NSe12 : Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REchina : China | usa : United States | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America   IPCSERVICE:PSC | SERVICE:C | SERVICE:LBY | SERVICE:D | SERVICE:GRO | SERVICE:E | SERVICE:MTL | SERVICE:DNP | SERVICE:G | SERVICE:SOF | SERVICE:GNS | SERVICE:BNX | SERVICE:UCDPTEST | SERVICE:M | SERVICE:PGE | SERVICE:RWS | SERVICE:O | SERVICE:RAST | SERVICE:CSA | SERVICE:OIL | SERVICE:RWSA | SERVICE:RNP | SERVICE:U | SERVICE:ABX | SERVICE:REULB | SERVICE:Z | SERVICE:AFA | SERVICE:RBN | SERVICE:FUN | LANG:en | OEC | BACT | BISV | BISV08 | BNKS | BSVC | CDM | CEN | DBT | ECO | FIN | FINS | FINS08 | FRX | GVD | INT | LOA | MCE | MMT | NEWS1 | PBOC | PLCY | REGS | TOPCMB | TOPNWS   IPDBusiness | Economy | Asia | Asia / Pacific | China (PRC) | Emerging Market Countries | East Asia | CHINA-ECONOMY/RATES (UPDATE 3, PIX) | CHINA | RATES (UPDATE 3, PIX)   PUBThomson Reuters (Markets) LLC   ANDocument LBA0000020180322ee3m004h6  



 HDNews Highlights: Top Global Markets News of the Day   WC410 words   PD22 March 2018   ET10:00   SNDow Jones Institutional News   SCDJDN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright © 2018, Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 
   LP
 
Fed Raises Rates, Signals Faster Pace in Coming Years 
 

The Federal Reserve said it would raise short-term interest rates a quarter-percentage point and signaled it could lift them at a slightly more aggressive pace in coming years to keep the strengthening economy on an even keel. 
   TD
 
PBOC Raises Key Short-Term Interest Rate

China's central bank increased a key short-term interest rate on Thursday, just hours after the Federal Reserve announced its first interest-rate increase for 2018. 


 
Tech Stocks Drag Global Markets Lower 
 

Shares of technology companies led stocks in Europe and China lower, while investors continued to grapple with the trajectory for global central bank policy and the prospect of increasing trade friction. 


 
U.S., China Sharpen Trade Swords 
 

As the Trump administration pursues talks to grant some allies exemptions from U.S. tariffs on steel and aluminum, China is preparing to target U.S. farm exports. 


 
Reformer Guo Shuqing to Oversee China's Banks and Insurers 
 

China's banking czar, pro-market reformer Guo Shuqing, is getting a broader remit to oversee not only the nation's lenders but also the troubled insurance sector. 


 
China Warns U.S. Against Punitive Trade Practices 
 

China warned the U.S. against any measures that could harm both countries, as Washington prepares for punitive trade policies targeting Beijing. 


 
Gulf Oil Sale No Turning Point for Offshore Drilling 
 

A massive U.S. auction of oil and gas leases in the Gulf of Mexico Wednesday garnered lukewarm interest from buyers, a poor omen for the Trump administration's efforts to jump-start offshore exploration. 


 
Australia's Employment Grows in February 
 

Australia's economy remained a steady engine for job creation in February, with a further 17,500 jobs added during the month. The unemployment rate rose to a higher-than-expected 5.6% during the month from 5.5% in January. 


 
New Zealand Leaves Interest Rates On Hold 
 

The Reserve Bank of New Zealand left its benchmark interest rate unchanged at 1.75% Thursday, saying the outlook is for low interest rates over a lengthy period, with inflation likely retreating in the near-term. 


 
Too Many New Surfers Sapping Strength of Aussie Jobs Wave 
 

If the latest gains in Australia's job market look like a wave for Aussie wages and prices to surf on, think again.

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

March 22, 2018 05:00 ET (09:00 GMT)
   COpbchin : The People's Bank of China | fed : Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | nfiac : Fixed Income Asset Class News | nhhour : Headlines of the Hour | e12 : Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | ndj : Dow Jones Top Stories | nfact : Factiva Filters | ntop : Top Wire News | redit : Selection of Top Stories/Trends/Analysis   REchina : China | usa : United States | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument DJDN000020180322ee3m000y8  



 HDREFILE-EUR OUTLOOK-Flipping the waffle   WC1,260 words   PD22 March 2018   ET08:51   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2018 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved. 
   LP(Fixes formatting)

LONDON, March 22 (IFR) - * Fed raises rates 25bp as expected, ups 2019-2020 interest rate forecasts, growth too * PBoC raises 7-day reverse repo rate 5bp to 2.55% * Bank of England expected to keep May rise on line * Italy announces new 3/20 CTZ, new 5/23 BTPei * Bias prefers to sell into resistance OVERNIGHT The big news overnight was naturally the outcome of the Federal Reserve’s policy meeting, which came out very mixed but spurred a good rally in Treasuries regardless. As had been universally expected, a 25bp rise in the Funds rate target to 1.50%-1.75% was adopted.
   TDThe dovish exception came in the policy statement which comments how “Recent data suggest that growth rates of household spending and business fixed investment have moderated from their strong fourth-quarter readings”, while also marking down economic activity to “moderate” from “solid”. Dot plot projections of the Federal Funds rate were also left unchanged for this year, implying another two rises, and swaying away from the possibility of a third by the end of the year (four increases total including yesterday) which the market had been leaning toward.

On the hawkish side, however, growth forecasts were raised, for this year to 2.7% (from 2.5%), and also next year, to 2.4% from 2.1%. Unemployment forecasts also dropped, to 3.8% and 3.6% from 3.9%/3.8% for this year and next. And the topper came with forward rate projections, where the median forecast for the Funds Rate bumped up 20bp for 2019, and 30bp for 2020, to 2.90% and 3.40% respectively.

Treasuries bounced in response, although we would suspect more in simple relief that the Fed appears to have steered away from four hikes this year, for the time being at least, rather than any explicitly dovish take from the decision. Also helping was a rather unimpressive showing for US stocks, which jumped on the decision, but immediately fell back, with the S&P500 ending the day down 0.2%.

Subsequent price action has Treasuries pushing higher through overnight trading, 10-year futures up ¼ point, although we would suggest really more like 1/8 point from late New York trading, while S&P futures are down one point. The Nikkei on Tokyo’s return from Wednesday’s Vernal Equinox holiday bounced 1%, while JGBs posted slight gains over most of the curve.

Chinese markets saw the People’s Bank of China raise its 7-day reverse repo rate 5bp to 2.55%. This follows the Fed decision and accordingly had been expected. For the detailed Reuters writeup, please see here. The Shanghai Composite has sagged 0.5%, while the Hang Seng is down 0.6%.

US politics are back in the news on several fronts. The most important is likely news that President Trump will announce today tariffs on Chinese imports, in an attempt to curb theft of US technology. We would hazard a guess, and only a guess, that this may not be as bad as feared, for several reasons. First, it is a much more targeted policy, which in theory should make it more likely to come to pass, but also should ease concerns about the US prosecuting blanket protectionism against all its trading partners. Secondly, we just don’t know what the policy will actually look like, so it may not actually be so heavy-handed. For the Reuters review, please see here.

Similarly, Trump spoke to French President Macron Wednesday specifically regarding trade issues, as well as taking concerted action against Russia regarding the UK poisoning case. For the brief Reuters take, please see here.

Finally, last week’s special election which saw Democratic candidate Conor Lamb beat Republican Rick Saccone in Pennsylvania really did see Lamb beat Saccone. The margin of victory was teenytinyteenyweeny, however, leaving open a possibility of a recount and/or Saccone contesting the vote. He has, however, apparently conceded defeat. For the Reuters take, please see here.

Finally, Italy announced Monday’s CTZ zero and BTP linker auctions, bringing two new issues, a new €2.5bn-€3.0bn 3/20 CTZ and also a new 5/23 BTPei. TODAY

Bunds have opened strong, following the Treasury gains as one would expect. That’s fair enough, but to the extent this is driven by the supposedly dovish Fed outcome, we are more sceptical given the Fed decision appears much more waffly, espousing a bit of everything to everyone, letting individuals pick and choose whatever details they want to consider for the moment. Hence in another day or two we quite possibly will be concentrating on the higher growth/forward interest rate forecasts rather than the current preoccupation steering toward only three rate hikes this year.

Aside from the fallout after last night’s FOMC decision, markets will also have to contend with today’s Bank of England meeting. No change in policy is widely expected, but a May rise should remain squarely within the Bank’s crosshairs. Currently the OIS market has a May rise priced at 87%, with a further one in November given a 67% probability. For our full preview, please see here.

We have retained a neutral bias as Bunds have chopped around the higher end of their range for the last one and a half months. We have also written how we expect Bunds to find strong resistance into any rally toward the Jan 23 high of 158.39, with last Friday’s high of 158.35 falling just short; 158.55 is also the 61.8% Fibo of the move from Dec to Feb. Given the flip-floppy/waffly nature of the Fed decision, we are as suggested sceptical of the market’s interpretation and hence the ensuing bounce. Hence we retain a preference to sell into the above-mentioned resistance. DATA & EVENTS * France business climate, expected 111, from 112 * France final Q4 GDP, previously +0.6% * France Markit flash manufacturing PMI, expected 55.5 * France Markit flash service sector PMI, expected 57.0 * France Markit flash compound PMI, expected 57.0 * Eurozone current account, last +€45.8bn NSA, €+29.9bn SA * Germany Markit flash manufacturing PMI, expected 59.8 * Germany Markit flash service sector PMI, expected 55.0 * Germany Markit flash compound PMI, expected 57.0 * Germany Ifo business climate, expected 114.8 * Germany Ifo current conditions, expected 125.7 * Germany Ifo expectations, expected 104.4 * Eurozone Markit flash manufacturing PMI, expected 58.1 * Eurozone Markit flash service sector PMI, expected 56.0 * Eurozone Markit flash compound PMI, expected 56.7 * UK retail sales, expected +0.4% m/m, +1.3% y/y * UK retail sales ex-fuel, expected +0.4% mm, +1.2% y/y * Belgium leading indicators, expected 1.2

* US initial unemployment claims, expected +225k * US continued unemployment claims, expected 1.89m * US leading indicators, expected +0.5% NEW ISSUE PIPELINE CORPORATE * Akelius Residential Property AB, rated BBB stable by S&P, one of the largest listed residential property companies in Europe, has mandated Deutsche Bank as Sole Structuring Adviser, and Barclays, Danske Bank and Deutsche Bank as Joint Bookrunners to arrange a series of fixed income investor meetings in Europe 19-21 March 2018. A EUR m issuance of EUR RegS bearer hybrid capital securities, with an initial non-call period of years will follow, subject to market conditions. * Volkswagen heard may have mandated a euro hybrid. 
   RFReleased: 2018-3-22T08:51:37.000Z   COeurcb : European Central Bank | fed : Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News   REeecz : European Union Countries | uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe   IPCSERVICE:PSC | SERVICE:E | SERVICE:UCDPTEST | SERVICE:ABN | SERVICE:RNP | SERVICE:PCO | SERVICE:RBN | LANG:en | OEC | OVR | CEN | CMPNY | DBT | ECB | EU | GEN | GVD | INTAG | POL | UK   IPDBusiness | Economy | Politics | Asia | Europe | UK | Asia / Pacific | Greece | Italy | France | Benelux | Spain | Central / Eastern Europe | Austria | Nordic States | Euro Zone as a Whole | Western Europe | United Kingdom | Ireland | Emerging Market Countries | Netherlands | England | Germany | South | Eastern Europe | Euro Zone | Taiwan | East Asia | Belgium | Finland | (CORRECTED)   PUBThomson Reuters (Markets) LLC   ANDocument LBA0000020180322ee3m00aow  



 HDBeijing follows Fed with rate hike with eye on cashflows   WC441 words   PD22 March 2018   ET08:54   SNAgence France Presse   SCAFPR   LAEnglish   CYCopyright Agence France-Presse, 2018 All reproduction and presentation rights reserved. 
   LPChina on Thursday raised the amount it charges lenders to borrow cash as it looks to prevent cash outflows after the Federal Reserve's latest interest rate hike.

With the Fed embarking on a period of monetary tightening as the economy continues to strengthen, Beijing has sought to stop a tide of money leaving the country as investors seek out better returns in the United States.
   TDIt also comes as Chinese authorities try to address a huge debt pile that many commentators have warned could hit the economic powerhouse and possibly spark another global crisis.

The People's Bank of China (PBoC) said on its website the 0.05 percentage point lift in the seven-day reverse repurchase agreement "matches expectations, and is a normal response to the US Federal Reserve's interest rate hike".

It announced similar moves in December and March last year in response to a US increase.

"We don't interpret this as a move to tighten monetary conditions," said Julian Evans-Pritchard, China Economist at Capital Economics in a note, adding the central bank sets liquidity from its lending operations and interbank rates.

"There is nothing to prevent the PBoC from stepping up its injections and pushing market rates lower, even as it hikes" the reverse-repo rate, Evans-Pritchard said.

Earlier, Hong Kong's de-facto central bank also announced a rate hike, as is customary owing to the city's monetary policy link to the United States' via their currency peg.

The Hong Kong Monetary Authority lifted its base rate by 25 basis points to 2.0 percent.

However, there are growing concerns officials may be forced to step into money markets to support the Hong Kong dollar owing to a divergence of key rates between the two.

While the HKMA lifts borrowing costs alongside the Fed, it has little effect as a huge well of cash in the city's banking system means lenders have ample liquidity, keeping the crucial Hong Kong Inter-Bank Rate (HIBOR) at record lows.

With US rates continuing to rise, investors are therefore selling local dollars and buying the higher-yielding greenback.

"In the long run, (the Fed hike) is going to make the Hong Kong dollar much weaker, unless we are going to increase the interest rate to protect that," said Jackson Wong, an associate director at Huarong International Securities.

He said major lenders in the city had not lifted their rates in line with the HKMA yet, adding that they "are not in a rush to increase interest rates right away".

yan-rwm/dly/dan/mtp
   COfed : Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System | pbchin : The People's Bank of China   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News   REchina : China | beijin : Beijing | hkong : Hong Kong | usa : United States | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America   IPDChina | HongKong | bank | rate   PUBAgence France-Presse   ANDocument AFPR000020180322ee3m005h9  



 HDNews Highlights: Top Global Markets News of the Day   WC408 words   PD22 March 2018   ET08:00   SNDow Jones Institutional News   SCDJDN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright © 2018, Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 
   LP
 
Fed Raises Rates, Signals Faster Pace in Coming Years 
 

The Federal Reserve said it would raise short-term interest rates a quarter-percentage point and signaled it could lift them at a slightly more aggressive pace in coming years to keep the strengthening economy on an even keel. 
   TD
 
PBOC Raises Key Short-Term Interest Rate

China's central bank increased a key short-term interest rate on Thursday, just hours after the Federal Reserve announced its first interest-rate increase for 2018. 


 
Most Asian Stocks Rise After Fed Rate Increase 
 

Asian stock markets outside mainland China strengthened after the Federal Reserve raised interest rates but stopped short of signaling a faster pace of increases for this year. 


 
U.S., China Sharpen Trade Swords 
 

As the Trump administration pursues talks to grant some allies exemptions from U.S. tariffs on steel and aluminum, China is preparing to target U.S. farm exports. 


 
Reformer Guo Shuqing to Oversee China's Banks and Insurers 
 

China's banking czar, pro-market reformer Guo Shuqing, is getting a broader remit to oversee not only the nation's lenders but also the troubled insurance sector. 


 
China Warns U.S. Against Punitive Trade Practices 
 

China warned the U.S. against any measures that could harm both countries, as Washington prepares for punitive trade policies targeting Beijing. 


 
Gulf Oil Sale No Turning Point for Offshore Drilling 
 

A massive U.S. auction of oil and gas leases in the Gulf of Mexico Wednesday garnered lukewarm interest from buyers, a poor omen for the Trump administration's efforts to jump-start offshore exploration. 


 
Australia's Employment Grows in February 
 

Australia's economy remained a steady engine for job creation in February, with a further 17,500 jobs added during the month. The unemployment rate rose to a higher-than-expected 5.6% during the month from 5.5% in January. 


 
New Zealand Leaves Interest Rates On Hold 
 

The Reserve Bank of New Zealand left its benchmark interest rate unchanged at 1.75% Thursday, saying the outlook is for low interest rates over a lengthy period, with inflation likely retreating in the near-term. 


 
Too Many New Surfers Sapping Strength of Aussie Jobs Wave 
 

If the latest gains in Australia's job market look like a wave for Aussie wages and prices to surf on, think again.

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

March 22, 2018 03:00 ET (07:00 GMT)
   COpbchin : The People's Bank of China | fed : Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | nfiac : Fixed Income Asset Class News | nhhour : Headlines of the Hour | e12 : Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | ndj : Dow Jones Top Stories | nfact : Factiva Filters | ntop : Top Wire News | redit : Selection of Top Stories/Trends/Analysis   REchina : China | usa : United States | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument DJDN000020180322ee3m000jn  



 HDEuropean Morning Briefing: Stocks Seen Dented as Fed Signals More Aggressive Path   WC4,859 words   PD22 March 2018   ET05:54   SNDow Jones Institutional News   SCDJDN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright © 2018, Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 
   LP
 
Snapshot: 
======== 

Stocks seen lower; USD/JPY 105.72-73; bund yield 0.594%; Brent crude $69.49; gold $1330.50
   TD-Fed Signals More Aggressive Path

-Fed's Framework Not Changing For Now, Powell Says

-China PBOC Raises Key Short-Term Interest Rate

-Hong Kong Monetary Authority Ups Base Rate

-Trump Administration Tells Lawmakers China Trade Actions Are Needed

-Congressional Leaders Agree on Spending Deal

-Facebook Breaks Its Silence, Admits 'Mistakes'

-France Brings Preliminary Charges Against Sarkozy

Watch For: EU summit opens in Brussels; flash PMIs for the eurozone, Germany, France, U.K., U.S.; U.K. interest rate decision, BOE MPC meeting minutes; Germany Ifo survey; France business survey; Italy balance of payments; U.K. retail sales; earnings from Bollore, Carnival, Enel, HeidelbergCement


 
Headline News: 
============= 

Federal Reserve officials signaled Wednesday they could pick up the pace of interest-rate increases to cool economic growth after next year.

The Fed voted unanimously to raise its benchmark federal-funds rate by a quarter-percentage point to a range between 1.5% and 1.75%. Officials said they expected to lift it another two or three times this year, and three times next year.

New forecasts show officials project faster economic growth, higher inflation and lower unemployment in coming years.

They indicated they expect they will need to tap on the monetary brakes, raising rates in 2020 to a level that would mark the first time in more than a decade that interest-rate policy was deliberately restrictive.

Fed Chairman Jerome Powell, in his first news conference as the central bank's chief, said officials want to balance two risks. One is that they raise rates too much, causing inflation to stay below their 2% target and damaging the Fed's credibility. The other is that they raise rates too slowly, letting the economy overheat and forcing them to move more quickly, triggering a recession.

"We're trying to take the middle ground, and the committee continues to believe that the middle ground consists of further gradual increases in the federal-funds rate," Mr. Powell said.

China's central bank increased a key short-term interest rate on Thursday, just hours after the Federal Reserve announced its first interest-rate increase for 2018.

The People's Bank of China raised the rate on reverse repurchase agreements, or reverse repos, used for open market operations, by 0.05 percentage point for the seven-day tenor.

But the scale of PBOC's Thursday rate increase was smaller than the previous two rounds, when the rates of longer term reverse repos and the medium-term lending facility also increased.

The Hong Kong Monetary Authority raised its base rate by a quarter of a percentage point to 2% on Thursday.

The city's currency peg to the U.S. dollar ties its monetary policy to the U.S., so the city's Monetary Authority generally follows any Fed rates adjustment in lockstep.

The de-facto central bank has pledged to keep its base rate by holding its overnight discount window at either 0.5 percentage point above the lower end of the prevailing U.S. federal-funds target rate or at the average of the five-day moving averages of the overnight and one-month Hong Kong interbank offered rates, whichever is higher.

The Trump administration is looking at tariffs and investment restrictions as a way to pressure China to strengthen protection of American intellectual property, U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer told House lawmakers worried about a brewing trade war.

A White House spokesman said the president would take actions Thursday regarding "China's state-led, market-distorting efforts to force, pressure, and steal U.S. technologies and intellectual property."

The moves against China are necessary because the World Trade Organization "has proven to be wholly inadequate to deal with China's version of a state-dominated economy that rejects market principles," Mr. Lighthizer said in a formal statement at the House hearing. 


 
Stocks: 
====== 

European equities face a negative open, with DAX futures down 49 points and FTSE 100 futures 16 points lower.

Asian stock markets outside mainland China strengthened Thursday. The Nikkei ended the morning session 0.4% higher as traders returned to work after a holiday, with energy stocks leading gains in Tokyo. South Korea's Kospi gained 0.7%, while stocks in Australia were largely flat after slightly-below-forecast jobs data.

In Hong Kong, the Hang Seng Index rose 0.1% with energy stocks leading gains. Tech behemoth Tencent Holdings weighed on the index after reporting declining profit margins in its underlying business on Wednesday. It was recently down 2.2%.

In China, the Shanghai Composite fell 0.8% while stocks in Shenzhen slipped 1.1% after the PBOC lifted its seven-day reverse repo rate. Central banks in Taiwan, the Philippines and Indonesia are due to meet later Thursday, though all are expected to stand pat. The Bank of England also meets later Thursday.

U.S. stocks erased gains and closed lower Wednesday. The Dow Jones Industrial Average closed down 0.2%, after earlier rising as much as 250 points immediately following the Fed decision. The S&P 500 declined 0.2%, while Nasdaq fell 0.3%. 


 
Forex: 
===== 

The dollar extended losses in Asia with the WSJ Dollar Index down another 0.1% to 83.45.

The index declined 0.7% Wednesday, the biggest one-day fall since Jan. 24, and leaves the currency down 2.8% for the year.

The dollar fell as analysts and investors focused on the Fed's decision to hold their 2018 forecast for three rate increase, though officials boosted their 2019 projection to three increases from the two forecast in December.

With policy makers opting to hold their forecast at three increases rather than four, that "was an obvious kind of sticking point for how people wanted to frame the event," said Mark McCormick, North American head of FX strategy at TD Securities.

The dollar was also pushed broadly lower by concerns that an increase in trade barriers may hurt growth. President Donald Trump's administration plans to release on Thursday a package of proposed punitive measures aimed at China that include tariffs on imports worth at least $30 billion. Tariffs are bound to cause China to retaliate, said Clement Leung, Hong Kong's representative in the U.S.

At 0450 GMT, USD/JPY was 105.72-73, EUR/USD was 1.2361-64 and GBP/USD was 1.4157-59. 


 
Bonds: 
===== 

BNP Paribas holds U.K. gilts at marginal underweight on a three-month horizon and underweight on a 12-month horizon.

The bank said that in the near term, global rates rises and progress on Brexit are set to weaken gilts--driving yields up. On the longer horizon, meanwhile, global tightening and rising domestic price pressures indicate weaker bond prices, as expectations of a Bank of England rate hike increase, BNP Paribas said.

The yield on the 10-year U.S. Treasury note rose for the fourth time in five trading days Wednesday after the Fed raised short-term interest rates and signaled it could pick up its pace of future rate increases.

Trading was volatile as the Fed concluded its two-day policy meeting, with the yield on the benchmark 10-year note jumping as high as 2.936% before settling at 2.901%, compared with 2.881% Tuesday.

"The consensus in the Treasury market is that rates are going to move higher here. It's just a matter of how quickly that happens -- and whether the market and the Fed are aligned on that," said Sean Simko, head of fixed-income portfolio management at SEI Investments. 


 
Energy: 
====== 

Oil futures were little changed in Asia having risen to the highest level in more than one month Wednesday, bolstered by risks to global supply and an unexpected decline in U.S. stockpiles.

On Wednesday, the Energy Information Administration reported that crude inventories declined by 2.6 million barrels in the week ended March 16, in contrast to analyst forecasts for a 2.4-million-barrel increase.

Draws in product stockpiles also exceeded analyst expectations. Gasoline inventories fell by 1.7 million barrels last week and distillate inventories decreased by 2 million barrels.

"In the big picture, all three 'headline' numbers were much better than expected," said John Saucer, vice president of research and analysis at Mobius Risk Group.

The steady decline of excess oil supply has encouraged investors after a global glut that lasted for years. U.S. crude inventories have fallen below the five-year average level for the first time since 2014, bucking seasonal trends, Standard Chartered analysts noted.

"After 42 months, the U.S. crude surplus has finally gone," the bank wrote in a Wednesday report.

Gains from the bullish data built on geopolitical concerns from Tuesday, as Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman's meeting with President Donald Trump in Washington raised the specter of a harder U.S. line against Iran.

At 0317 GMT, May WTI was 4 cents at $65.22 a barrel and Brent was 2 cents higher at $69.49. 


 
Metals: 
====== 

London spot gold prices edged lower in Asian trade after climbing Wednesday following a less hawkish-than-expected Fed view on interest rates this year.

The outlook for gold remains positive, however, with rising trade tensions likely to fuel safe-haven demand. At 0228 GMT, gold was down 0.1% at $1,330.50 a troy ounce.

Write to paul.larkins@wsj.com

22 Mar 2018 00:54 ET 
European Morning Briefing: Other Top Stories

Europe Plants a Flag in the Digital-Tax Debate

The European Union could hardly have chosen a more provocative moment to launch proposals for a new digital tax. https://www.wsj.com/articles/europe-plants-a-flag-in-the-digital-tax-debate-1521676758?mod=searchresults&page=1&pos=1

U.S. China, Sharpen Trade Swords

As the Trump administration pursues talks with allies on exemptions from U.S. tariffs on steel and aluminum, China is preparing to escalate trade tensions with the U.S. by targeting U.S. agricultural exports from Farm Belt states. https://www.wsj.com/articles/u-s-china-sharpen-trade-swords-1521674734

Congressional Leaders Strike Spending Deal

Congressional leaders reached a deal on a spending bill that would fund the government until October, ending a protracted negotiation that left lawmakers little time to pass the legislation before the government's funding expires. https://www.wsj.com/articles/congressional-leaders-race-to-finalize-spending-deal-1521641432

Facebook Breaks Its Silence, Admits 'Mistakes'

Facebook Chief Executive Mark Zuckerberg broke his silence five days into a growing uproar about how outsiders handle Facebook's user data, admitting mistakes and pledging an investigation. https://www.wsj.com/articles/after-days-of-silence-mark-zuckerberg-to-publicly-address-facebooks-user-data-uproar-1521659989

Trump Defends His Approach to Putin in Phone Conversation

The White House on Wednesday defended a phone conversation between President Donald Trump and Russian counterpart Vladimir Putin, saying Mr. Trump made headway by striking a cordial tone rather than taking a more confrontational approach as suggested by his national security advisers. https://www.wsj.com/articles/trump-defends-his-approach-to-putin-in-phone-conversation-1521663831?mod=searchresults&page=1&pos=1

Gulf Oil Sale No Turning Point for Offshore Drilling

A massive U.S. auction of oil and gas leases in the Gulf of Mexico Wednesday garnered lukewarm interest from buyers, a poor omen for the Trump administration's efforts to jump-start offshore exploration. https://www.wsj.com/articles/gulf-oil-sale-no-turning-point-for-offshore-drilling-1521670792?mod=searchresults&page=1&pos=1

France Brings Preliminary Charges Against Ex-President Sarkozy

French authorities brought preliminary charges against former President Nicolas Sarkozy for illegally financing his 2007 presidential campaign with cash from the regime of Libyan dictator Moammar Gadhafi, a judicial official said. https://www.wsj.com/articles/france-brings-preliminary-charges-against-ex-president-sarkozy-1521665420

22 Mar 2018 00:54 ET 
European Morning Briefing: Market Prices

Thursday's G7 calendar is unavailable 


DJIA      24682.31 -44.96 -0.18% 
Nasdaq     7345.29 -19.02 -0.26% 
S&P 500    2711.93  -5.01 -0.18% 
FTSE 100   7038.97 -22.30 -0.32% 
FTSE 250  19668.04 -55.52 -0.28% 
Xetra DAX 12309.15   1.82  0.01% 
CAC40      5239.74 -12.69 -0.24% 
Closing 
 
Futures: 
Dow       24723.00 -4.00 -0.02% 
S&P 500    2718.75  0.50  0.02% 
Nasdaq 100 6890.50  6.50  0.09% 
As of 0349 GMT 
 
Nikkei    21475.15   94.18  0.44% 
Hang Seng 31218.05 -196.47 -0.63% 
S&P/ASX    5934.20  -16.10 -0.27% 
Kospi      2497.50   12.53  0.50% 
Shanghai   3254.31  -26.64 -0.81% 
Taipei    11021.27   10.20  0.09% 
As of 0425 GMT 
 
USD/JPY 105.72-73 -0.30 
Range 106.09 105.58 
EUR/USD 1.2361-64 +0.20 
Range 1.2371 1.2338 
GBP/USD 1.4157-59 +0.13 
Range 1.4171 1.4135 
USD/CHF 0.9475-79 -0.20 
Range 0.9500 0.9468 
AUD/USD 0.7736-40 -0.35 
Range 0.7783 0.7737 
EUR/JPY 130.69-73 -0.10 
Range 130.96 130.56 
EUR/GBP 0.8730-33 +0.08 
Range 0.8734 0.8723 
As of 0450 GMT vs. NY close 
 
Oil futures: 
Brent +2c at $69.49 
Nymex +4c at $65.22 
At 0317 GMT 
 
Spot gold: 
$1330.50 -0.1% 
At 0228 GMT 
 

22 Mar 2018 00:54 ET 
European Morning Briefing: Corporate Events

11880 Solutions AG (TGT.XE)Full year 2017 Results [Annual report]

Airopack Technology Group AG (AIRN.EB)Full year 2017 Results

Allied Minds PLC (ALM.LN)Full year 2017 Results

Alony Hetz Properties & Investments Ltd (ALHE.TV)Q4 2017 Earnings conference call

AND International Publishers (AND.AE)Full year 2017 Results

Argan SA (ARG.FR)Full year 2017 AGM & EGM

Arkil Holding A/S (ARKIL-B.KO)Full year 2017 Results

AS Creation Tapeten AG (ACWN.XE)Full year 2017 Results [Annual report]

Asiakastieto Group Oyj (ATG1V.HE)Full year 2017 AGM

ASTARTA Holding (AST.WA)Full year 2017 Earnings conference call

Baltika (BLT1T.ET)Full year 2017 Results

Banco Santander SA (SAN.MC)Full year 2017 AGM

Bank Handlowy w Warszawie SA (BHW.WA)Full year 2017 Results

Bank Saint-Petersburg (BSPB.MZ)Full year 2017 Results IFRS

Bankinter (BKT.MC)Full year 2017 AGM

BB Healthcare Trust (BBH.LN)Full year 2017 AGM

Beazley PLC (BEZ.LN)Full year 2017 AGM

Beghelli (BE.MI)Full year 2017 Results

Beijer Alma AB - B Share (BEIA-B.SK)Full year 2017 AGM

Benefit Systems SA (BFT.WA)Full year 2017 Results

Biotest AG (BIO.XE)Full year 2017 Results [Annual Report]

Biotest AG (BIO.XE)Full year 2017 Analyst & Press Conference

BlackRock Throgmorton Trust (THRG.LN)Full year 2017 AGM

BMW AG (BMW.XE)Full year 2017 Analyst meeting Webcast

Bollore (BOL.FR)Full year 2017 Results

Bollore (BOL.FR)Full year 2017 Analyst briefing

Brioschi Sviluppo Immobiliare (BRI.MI)Full year 2017 Results

Brunner Investment Trust (BUT.LN)Full year 2017 AGM

Budimex (BDX.WA)Full year 2017 Results

Business et Decision (BND.FR)Full year 2017 Results

Carnival PLC (CCL.LN)Q1 2018 Results

Castellum AB (CAST.SK)Full year 2017 AGM

CD Projekt S.A (CDR.WA)Full year 2017 Results

CeWe Stiftung & Co. KGaA (CWC.XE)Full year 2017 Results [Annual Report]

CeWe Stiftung & Co. KGaA (CWC.XE)Full year 2017 Press conference

CeWe Stiftung & Co. KGaA (CWC.XE)Outlook 2018

Class Editori (CLE.MI)Full year 2017 Results

Cognor Holding SA (COG.WA)Full year 2017 AGM

Columbus A/S (COLUM.KO)Capital Markets Day

Compagnia Immobiliare Azionaria (CIA.MI)Full year 2017 Results

Compania de Distribucion Integral Logista Holdings SA (LOG.MC)Full year 2017 AGM

Crest Nicholson (CRST.LN)Full year 2017 AGM

Crest Nicholson (CRST.LN)Full year 2017 AGM Trading statement

CTS Eventim AG (EVD.XE)Full year 2017 Results [Annual Report]

Cyfrowy Polsat SA (CPS.WA)Full year 2017 Results

Cyfrowy Polsat SA (CPS.WA)Full year 2017 Investor & Analyst meeting

Data Modul AG (DAM.XE)Full year 2017 Results [Annual report]

Data Modul AG (DAM.XE)Full year 2017 Press conference [invitation only]

Delticom AG (DEX.XE)Full year 2017 Results [Annual report]

DKSH Holding AG (DKSH.EB)Full year 2017 AGM

DNA Oyj (DNA.HE)Full year 2017 AGM

Drillisch AG (DRI.XE)Full year 2017 Results [Annual Report]

Drillisch AG (DRI.XE)Full year 2017 Press & analyst meeting [invitation only]

Duerr AG (DUE.XE)Full year 2017 Results [Annual Report]

Eckert & Ziegler (EUZ.XE)Full year 2017 Results [Annual report]

Eckert-Ziegler BG (EZBG.BT)Full year 2017 Results

Ecotel Communication AG (E4C.XE)Full year 2017 Results

Ei Towers (EIT.MI)Full year 2017 Results

Elumeo SE (ELB.FF)Full year 2017 Results [Annual report]

Elumeo SE (ELB.FF)Full year 2017 Earnings conference call / Webcast

Enagas (ENG.MC)Full year 2017 AGM

Encavis AG (CAP.XE)Full year 2017 Results

Enel SpA (ENEL.MI)Full year 2017 Results

Energia y Celulosa (ENC.MC)Full year 2017 AGM

Exel Composites (EXL1V.HE)Full year 2017 AGM

F.E. Bording - B Share (BORD-B.KO)Full year 2017 Results

First Sensor AG (SIS.XE)Full year 2017 Results [Annual report]

First Sensor AG (SIS.XE)Full year 2017 Press conference & Capital Market Day

Flugger - B Share (FLUG-B.KO)Q3 2018 Results

Freenet AG (FNTN.XE)Full year 2017 Results [Annual Report]

Gamma Communications (GAMA.LN)Full year 2017 Results

Geci International (GECP.FR)EGM

Genel Energy PLC (GENL.LN)Full year 2017 Results

Genel Energy PLC (GENL.LN)Full year 2017 Results presentation / Webcast

Givaudan SA (GIVN.EB)Full year 2017 AGM

GL events (GLO.FR)Full year 2017 Analyst meeting SFAF [invitation only]

Gobarto SA (GOB.WA)Full year 2017 Results

Halma (HLMA.LN)Trading statement

Heidelberg Pharma AG (WL6.XE)Full year 2017 Results [Annual report]

HeidelbergCement AG (HEI.XE)Full year 2017 Results [Annual Report]

HeidelbergCement AG (HEI.XE)Full year 2017 Press conference [invitation only]

HeidelbergCement AG (HEI.XE)Full year 2017 Earnings conference call [analyst]

Hella Kgaa Hueck & Co (HLE.XE)Q3 2017 Results

Homag Group (HG1.FF)Full year 2017 Results [Annual report]

HORNBACH Holding AG & Co. KGaA (HBH.XE)Full year 2018 Trading statement

Hornbach-Baumarkt AG (HBM.XE)Full year 2018 Trading statement

Hufvudstaden AB - A Share (HUFV-A.SK)Full year 2017 AGM

IBA SA (IBAB.BT)Full year 2017 Results

Independent Investment Trust (IIT.LN)Full year 2017 AGM

init innovation in traffic systems AG (IXX.XE)Full year 2017 Results [Annual report]

init innovation in traffic systems AG (IXX.XE)Full year 2017 Press & analyst meeting [invitation only]

InTiCa Systems AG (IS7.XE)Full year 2017 Preliminary results

InVision AG (IVX.XE)Full year 2017 Results [Annual Report]

IT Link (ITL.FR)Full year 2017 Results

Jastrzebska Spolka Weglowa SA (JSW.WA)Q4 2017 Results

Jenoptik AG (JEN.XE)Full year 2017 Results [Annual report]

JKX Oil & Gas PLC (JKX.LN)EGM

JOST Werke AG (JST.XE)Full year 2017 Results [Annual report]

JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc (JAM.LN)Full year 2017 Results

Koenig & Bauer AG (SKB.XE)Full year 2017 Results

KR Energy SpA (KRE.MI)Full year 2017 Results

Krka (KRKG.LJ)Full year 2017 Preliminary results

Krka (KRKG.LJ)Full year 2017 Press conference

KUKA AG (KU2.XE)Full year 2017 Results [Annual report]

KUKA AG (KU2.XE)Full year 2017 Press conference [invitation only]

KUKA AG (KU2.XE)Full year 2017 Earnings conference call [analyst]

Lamda Development S.A. (LAMDA.AT)EGM

Lamprell (LAM.LN)Full year 2017 Analyst meeting / Webcast

Lamprell (LAM.LN)Full year 2017 Preliminary results

Le Belier SA (BELI.FR)Full year 2017 Results

Le Belier SA (BELI.FR)Full year 2017 Analyst meeting SFAF [invitation only]

Liberbank, SA (LBK.MC)Full year 2017 AGM

M&C Saatchi (SAA.LN)Full year 2017 Preliminary results

Maisons France Confort (MFC.FR)Full year 2017 Analyst meeting SFAF [invitation only]

MediGene AG (MDG1.XE)Full year 2017 Earnings conference call / Webcast

MediGene AG (MDG1.XE)Full year 2017 Results [Annual report]

Memscap (MEMS.FR)Full year 2017 Results

METALL ZUG AG (METN.EB)Full year 2017 Results

Metso Oyj (METSO.HE)Full year 2017 AGM

Meyer Burger Technology Ltd (MBTN.EB)Full year 2017 Results

Mologen AG (MGN.XE)Full year 2017 Results

Motor Oil (Hellas) Corinth Refineries SA (MOH.AT)Full year 2017 Analyst meeting [Invitation only]

Neo Industrial Oyj (NEO1V.HE)Full year 2017 AGM

NeuroVive Pharmaceutical AB (NVP.SK)EGM

NKT Holding A/S (NKT.KO)Full year 2017 AGM

NORMA Group AG (NOEJ.XE)Full year 2017 Analyst meeting [invitation only]

Novo Nordisk A/S - B Share (NOVO-B.KO)Full year 2017 AGM

Outokumpu Oyj (OUT1V.HE)Full year 2017 AGM

Paion AG (PA8.XE)Full year 2017 Results [Annual report]

Paion AG (PA8.XE)Full year 2017 Earnings conference call / Webcast

Pareto Bank (PARB.OS)Full year 2017 AGM

Parques Reunidos Servicios Centrales SA (PQR.MC)Full year 2017 AGM

Pegas Nonwovens SA (PEGAS.PR)Full year 2017 Preliminary results

Pininfarina SpA - Ord (PINF.MI)Full year 2017 Results

Porceleyne Fles (PORF.AE)Full year 2017 Results

Poxel SA (POXEL.FR)Full year 2017 Results

PSI AG (PSAN.XE)Full year 2017 Results [Annual report]

PSI AG (PSAN.XE)Full year 2017 Analyst meeting [invitation only]

Quixant Plc (QXT.LN)Full year 2017 Results

Raute Oyj (RAUTE.HE)Full year 2017 AGM

Red Electrica de Espana (REE.MC)Full year 2017 AGM

Regional REIT Ltd (RGL.LN)Full year 2017 Results

Regional REIT Ltd (RGL.LN)Full year 2017 Analyst meeting

Remak SA (RMK.WA)Full year 2017 AGM

Sabre Insurance Group (SBRE.LN)Full year 2017 Results

Safestyle UK PLC (SFE.LN)Full year 2017 Preliminary results

Sanne Group PLC (SNN.LN)Full year 2017 Preliminary results

Sanne Group PLC (SNN.LN)Full year 2017 Results presentation

Sanoma Corp - A Shares (SWYBY)Full year 2017 AGM

secunet Security Networks (YSN.XE)Full year 2017 Results [Annual report]

secunet Security Networks (YSN.XE)Full year 2017 Analyst meeting [invitation only]

Secure Trust Bank (STB.LN)Full year 2017 Results

Silkeborg IF Invest - B Share (SIF.KO)Full year 2017 Results

SOCO International (SIA.LN)Full year 2017 Results

SP Group (SPG.KO)Full year 2017 Preliminary results

Stallergenes Greer (STAGR.FR)Full year 2017 Results

Stockmann Oyj Abp - B Shares (STCBV.HE)Full year 2017 AGM

Swedbank - A Share (SWED-A.SK)Full year 2017 AGM

TAG Immobilien AG (TEG.XE)Full year 2017 Results [Annual Report]

Tallinna Kaubamaja Grupp AS (TKM1T.ET)Full year 2017 AGM

Ted Baker PLC (TED.LN)Full year 2017 Analyst meeting

Ted Baker PLC (TED.LN)Full year 2017 Preliminary results

Terna SpA (TRN.MI)Full year 2017 Earnings conference call / Webcast & 2018-2022 strategic plan

Tieto Corporation (TIE1V.HE)Full year 2017 AGM

TK Development A/S (TKDV.KO)Full year 2017 Results

Unipol - Ord (UNI.MI)Full year 2017 Results

UnipolSai (US.MI)Full year 2017 Results

United Internet (UTDI.XE)Full year 2017 Results [Annual report]

Valneva (VLA.FR)Full year 2017 Earnings conference call / Webcast

Valneva (VLA.FR)Full year 2017 Results

Viohalco (VIO.AT)Full year 2017 Results

Viscom (V6C.XE)Full year 2017 Analyst meeting

Vossloh AG (VOS.XE)Full year 2017 Results [Annual Report]

Wendel (MF.FR)Full year 2017 Webcast

Wendel (MF.FR)Full year 2017 Results

William Demant Holding (WDH.KO)Full year 2017 AGM

22 Mar 2018 00:54 ET 
European Morning Briefing: Corporate Events -2-

ZEAL Network SE (TIM.XE)Full year 2017 Earnings conference call / Webcast

ZEAL Network SE (TIM.XE)Full year 2017 Results [Annual report]

zooplus AG (ZO1.XE)Full year 2017 Results [Annual Report]

zooplus AG (ZO1.XE)Capital Markets Day / Webcast

22 Mar 2018 00:54 ET 
European Morning Briefing: Dividend Payment & Ex-Div Dates

Abu Dhabi Commercial Bank (ADCB.AD)Full year 2017 Ex-dividend date - proposed (seen 0.42000)

Ahlstrom-Munksjo (AM1.HE)Full year 2017 Ex-dividend date - proposed (seen 0.26000)

Air Arabia (AIRARABI.DFM)Full year 2017 Ex-dividend date - proposed (seen 0.10000)

Bellevue Group (BBN.EB)Full year 2017 Ex-dividend date - proposed (seen 1.10000)

Beta Systems Software AG (BSSA.FF)Full year 2017 Dividend payment date - proposed (seen 0.41000)

BlackRock Commodities Income Investment Trust PLC (BRCI.LN)Q1 2018 Ex-dividend date (seen 0.01000)

BlackRock World Mining Trust (BRWM.LN)Full year 2017 Ex-dividend date - proposed (seen 0.06600)

British American Tobacco (BATS.LN)Interim 2018 Ex-dividend date (seen 0.48800)

Brooks Macdonald Group (BRK.LN)Interim 2018 Ex-dividend date (seen 0.17000)

Centamin PLC (CEE.T)Full year 2017 Ex-dividend date - proposed (seen 0.10000)

Clariant (CLN.EB)Full year 2017 Ex-dividend date - proposed (seen 0.50000)

Clinigen Group (CLIN.LN)Interim 2018 Ex-dividend date (seen 0.01760)

Close Brothers Group (CBG.LN)Interim 2018 Ex-dividend date*

Com Hem Holding (COMH.SK)Full year 2017 Ex-dividend date - proposed (seen 3.00000)

Commercial International Bank (Egypt) (COMI.CI)Full year 2017 Dividend payment date (seen 1.00000)

DFDS (DFDS.KO)Full year 2017 Dividend payment date - proposed - 1st payment (seen 4.00000)

Diverse Income Trust (The) (DIVI.LN)Q2 2018 Ex-dividend date (seen 0.00800)

Dr Hoenle AG (HNL.XE)Full year 2017 Ex-dividend date - proposed (seen 0.60000)

Dunelm Group PLC (DNLM.LN)Interim 2018 Ex-dividend date (seen 0.07000)

Eco Animal Health Group (EAH.LN)Interim 2018 Ex-dividend date (seen 0.03200)

Fidelity European Values (FEV.LN)Full year 2017 Ex-dividend date - proposed (seen 0.04350)

Funding Circle SME Income Fund Ltd (FCIF.LN)Interim 2017 Ex-dividend date (seen 0.01625)

Hoegh LNG Holdings (HLNG.OS)Q1 2018 Dividend payment date (seen 0.02500)

Hypothekarbank Lenzburg (HBLN.EB)Special dividend payment date - proposed (seen 40.00000)

Hypothekarbank Lenzburg (HBLN.EB)Full year 2017 Dividend payment date - proposed (seen 110.00000)

JPMorgan Global Emerging Markets Income Trust PLC (JEMI.LN)Q2 2018 Ex-dividend date (seen 0.01000)

Kemira Oyj (KEMIRA.HE)Full year 2017 Ex-dividend date - proposed (seen 0.53000)

Kier Group PLC (KIE.LN)Interim 2018 Ex-dividend date - proposed (seen 0.23000)

Kingspan Group PLC (KRX.DB)Full year 2017 Ex-dividend date - proposed (seen 0.26000)

Kudelski SA (KUD.EB)Full year 2017 Dividend payment date - proposed (seen 0.10000)

Lollands Bank (LOLB.KO)Full year 2017 Ex-dividend date (seen 5.00000)

Low & Bonar (LWB.LN)Full year 2017 Ex-dividend date - proposed (seen 0.02000)

LSL Property Services (LSL.LN)Full year 2017 Ex-dividend date - proposed (seen 0.07300)

Meggitt (MEGGF)Full year 2017 Ex-dividend date - proposed (seen 0.10800)

MIND CTI (MNDO)Full year 2017 Dividend payment date (seen 0.30000)

Mons Bank A/S (MNBA.KO)Full year 2017 Ex-dividend date - proposed (seen 2.00000)

National Bank Of Ras Al-Khaimah (RAKBANK.AD)Full year 2017 Ex-dividend date - proposed (seen 0.30000)

Nichols PLC (NICL.LN)Full year 2017 Ex-dividend date - proposed (seen 0.23400)

OneSavings Bank Plc (OSB.LN)Full year 2017 Ex-dividend date - proposed (seen 0.09300)

Raisio Oyj (RAIVV.HE)Full year 2017 Ex-dividend date - proposed (seen 0.17000)

Randgold Resources (RRS.LN)Full year 2017 Ex-dividend date - proposed (seen 2.00000)

Revolution Bars Group (RBG.LN)Interim 2018 Ex-dividend date (seen 0.01650)

Schindler Holding (SCHN.EB)Full year 2017 Ex-dividend date - proposed (seen 4.00000)

Schroder European Real Estate Investment Trust PLC (SERE.LN)Interim 2018 Ex-dividend date (seen 0.01850)

Schroders (SDR.LN)Full year 2017 Ex-dividend date - proposed (seen 0.79000)

SEGRO PLC (SGRO.LN)Full year 2017 Ex-dividend date - proposed (seen 0.11350)

Sky plc (SKY.LN)Interim 2018 Ex-dividend date (seen 0.13060)

Stobart Group (STOB.LN)Full year 2018 Ex-dividend date - proposed (seen 0.04500)

Svenska Handelsbanken AB - B Share (SHB-B.SK)Full year 2017 Ex-dividend date - proposed (seen 5.50000)

Svenska Handelsbanken AB - B Share (SHB-B.SK)Special ex-dividend date - proposed (seen 2.00000)

The Commercial Bank (Q.S.C.) (CBQK.DO)Full year 2017 Ex-dividend date - proposed (seen 1.00000)

Thorpe (FW) (TFW.LN)Interim 2018 Ex-dividend date (seen 0.01400)

Treatt PLC (TET.LN)Full year 2017 Dividend payment date - proposed (seen 0.03350)

Uponor (UPONOR.HE)Full year 2017 Dividend payment date - proposed - 1st payment (seen 0.24000)

Utilico Emerging Mkts (UEM.LN)Q4 2018 Ex-dividend date (seen 0.01800)

Valmet Corp (VALMT.HE)Full year 2017 Ex-dividend date - proposed (seen 0.55000)

XLMedia PLC (XLM.LN)Full year 2017 Ex-dividend date - proposed (seen 0.02683)

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

March 22, 2018 00:54 ET (04:54 GMT)
   COhkmoat : Hong Kong Monetary Authority | fed : Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System   NSeblpy : Balance of Payments/Current Account | e1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Monetary Policy | m11 : Equity Markets | nenac : Energy Asset Class News | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | nfiac : Fixed Income Asset Class News | ntop : Top Wire News | ntuks : Top UK Stories | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1118 : Trade Figures | e51 : Trade/External Payments | ecat : Economic News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | ndj : Dow Jones Top Stories | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | redit : Selection of Top Stories/Trends/Analysis   REchina : China | usa : United States | eurz : Europe | uk : United Kingdom | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | eecz : European Union Countries | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument DJDN000020180322ee3m000ed  



 HDNews Highlights: Top Global Markets News of the Day   WC432 words   PD22 March 2018   ET04:00   SNDow Jones Institutional News   SCDJDN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright © 2018, Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 
   LP
 
Asian Stocks Rise After Fed Rate Increase 
 

Asian stock markets strengthened in early trade and the U.S. dollar weakened further, after the Federal Reserve raised interest rates but stopped short of signaling a faster pace of increases for this year. 
   TD
 
PBOC Raises Key Short-Term Interest Rate

China's central bank increased a key short-term interest rate on Thursday, just hours after the Federal Reserve announced its first interest-rate increase for 2018. 


 
Fed Raises Rates, Signals Faster Pace in Coming Years 
 

The Federal Reserve said it would raise short-term interest rates a quarter-percentage point and signaled it could lift them at a slightly more aggressive pace in coming years to keep the strengthening economy on an even keel. 


 
Reformer Guo Shuqing to Oversee China's Banks and Insurers 
 

China's banking czar, pro-market reformer Guo Shuqing, is getting a broader remit to oversee not only the nation's lenders but also the troubled insurance sector. 


 
U.S., China Sharpen Trade Swords 
 

As the Trump administration pursues talks to grant some allies exemptions from U.S. tariffs on steel and aluminum, China is preparing to target U.S. farm exports. 


 
Europe Plants a Flag in the Digital-Tax Debate 
 

The European Commission's has announced plans for a new digital tax, seeing an opportunity to bring about international change on its terms, Simon Nixon writes. 


 
Gulf Oil Sale No Turning Point for Offshore Drilling 
 

A massive U.S. auction of oil and gas leases in the Gulf of Mexico Wednesday garnered lukewarm interest from buyers, a poor omen for the Trump administration's efforts to jump-start offshore exploration. 


 
Australia's Employment Grows in February 
 

Australia's economy remained a steady engine for job creation in February, with a further 17,500 jobs added during the month. The unemployment rate rose to a higher-than-expected 5.6% during the month from 5.5% in January. 


 
New Zealand Leaves Interest Rates On Hold 
 

The Reserve Bank of New Zealand left its benchmark interest rate unchanged at 1.75% Thursday, saying the outlook is for low interest rates over a lengthy period, with inflation likely retreating in the near-term. 

Brazil's Central Bank Cuts Rate, Sees 'Additional Easing as Appropriate' 
 

Brazil's central bank cut its benchmark interest rate for the 12th consecutive time and surprised markets by signaling readiness to trim the rate again at its next meeting, as price increases remain below expectations.

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

March 21, 2018 23:00 ET (03:00 GMT)
   COpbchin : The People's Bank of China | fed : Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | nfiac : Fixed Income Asset Class News | nhhour : Headlines of the Hour | e12 : Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | ndj : Dow Jones Top Stories | nfact : Factiva Filters | ntop : Top Wire News | redit : Selection of Top Stories/Trends/Analysis   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument DJDN000020180322ee3m0007o  



 HDFed raises rates, signals confidence in strengthening economy   WC2,613 words   PD21 March 2018   ET20:36   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2018 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved. 
   LPNEW YORK (Reuters) - The Federal Reserve raised interest rates on Wednesday and forecast at least two more hikes for 2018, signaling growing confidence U.S. tax cuts and government spending will boost the economy and inflation and lead to more aggressive future tightening.

Policymakers predicted rates would rise three times next year and two times in 2020, a further indication of confidence in the economy.
   TDCOMMENTS:

STEPHEN MASSOCCA, MANAGING DIRECTOR AT WEDBUSH SECURITIES IN SAN FRANCISCO:

"We're still below the all time high. The 30 year is also below its high. I don't think there's any new news here. It was a quarter of a point increase. We're taking about 3 increases this year. I don't know how anybody could be surprised."

"If some economic numbers were really hot you might see four rate hikes this year. If employment was hot or inflation. I don't think that's going to happen. I think Powell is a don't upset the apple cart guy."

“My view is they'll go to 2-2.25 percent and see what the reaction is. If we had 2-3 inflation reports of 3-4 percent the Fed would start acting more aggressively."

JASON WARE, CHIEF INVESTMENT OFFICER AT ALBION FINANCIAL IN UTAH:

"The market was concerned that we'd get more of a hawkish near term statement but the balance is, that looking ahead, there might be a steeper path into 2019 and 2020 for rate hikes. The market is trying to balance the near term with the longer term, but in the stockmarket, the near term matters more than the longer term. Then, we'll take 2019 and 2020 as they come."

ALEC YOUNG, MANAGING DIRECTOR OF GLOBAL MARKETS RESEARCH, FTSE RUSSELL, NEW YORK:

“Investors’ focus was very much on the Fed’s updated monetary policy outlook and the pace of future rate hikes. Markets came into today’s decision with many investors worried about the possibility of a Fed policy mistake if they tighten too much in the face of recent fiscal stimulus from tax reform, an uptick in inflation and ongoing synchronized global growth. The Fed’s updated economic outlook was less hawkish than feared, sparking a relief rally in stocks as markets discounted continued economic growth and gradual interest rate hikes. Overall, investors welcomed the fact that while the Fed remains confident in the economic expansion, it signaled a willingness to continue to be gradual in raising interest rates. Goldilocks is alive and well.”

MINH TRANG, SENIOR FOREIGN CURRENCY TRADER, SILICON VALLEY BANK, SANTA CLARA, CALIFORNIA:

“It looks like a bit of a letdown even though the Fed’s overall outlook is hawkish because their economic outlook has strengthened. That’s why we are seeing a bit of a disappointment on the dollar side. I still think the tone is long-term hawkish, which is bullish for the dollar. Going into 2018, there is a lot of bearishness on the dollar.”

CANDICE BANGSUND, PORTFOLIO MANAGER, GLOBAL ASSET ALLOCATION, FIERA CAPITAL

“There’s a new line in the statement essentially acknowledging that the economic outlook has strengthened in recent months, that’s obviously a more hawkish development, while at the same time also acknowledging that some of the data in Q1 has softened somewhat after a strong Q4.

“Our expectation going into the new Fed chairmanship has been a status quo, what we saw in the Yellen era. While his semi-annual testimony to Congress was a bit more on the blunt side, (Powell) acknowledged his personal outlook had strengthened. He wasn’t afraid to make his expectations or opinions heard. At the same time, right off the bat, what we’re seeing in the statement, a little bit for the hawks, a little bit more for the doves, it’s giving us that more status quo, gradual approach to normalization that we’ve been adjusting to and that’s why you’re seeing the markets respond as they have. But no major surprises.”

MARK GRANT, CHIEF GLOBAL STRATEGIST AT B. RILEY FBR INC,FORT LAUDERDALE, FLORIDA:

"The FOMC policy statement was pretty much in-line with general expectations. Nothing moved dramatically with the exception of the equity markets that breathed a sigh of relief that more rate hikes were less likely past the three already baked into the markets. The statement was fairly optimistic about U.S. growth and seemed to ignore the Atlanta's Fed's GDP Now number of just 1.8 percent growth. The median FOMC member now expects a GDP of up 2.7 percent which is up 0.2 percent from their December forecast. I think that equities are reacting to the growth projections. Treasuries are off, but slightly. Overall, no real surprises and a continuing of the policies set under Ms. Yellen.”

THOMAS MARTIN, SENIOR PORTFOLIO MANAGER AT GLOBALT INVESTMENTS IN ATLANTA, GEORGIA:

“Everybody expected the rate increase but there was some question if it would go to three rates to four. It stayed flat at three raises for now. The reason was the Fed statement that economic activity has been moderating since the last time they talked about it. There is a moderation so they are not going to raise it to four at this time.

"All in all, the message for the markets and why the S&P went up is that you see the message is economic growth is still OK now and perhaps sustainable more so than people might have thought for 2019 and 2020. But in the longer run you are going to have this moderation at a reasonable level. So really nice for equities.”

RUSSELL PRICE , SENIOR ECONOMIST AT AMERIPRISE, MINNEAPOLIS:

"I still think three is the most likely expectation this year. They did tweak their projections a little bit for both dovish and hawkish. The unemployment rate expectations were tweaked lower slightly, by a tenth of a percentage point.

“But expectations for the federal funds rate over the longer term were equally tweaked higher by a tenth of a percentage point.

“In other words, they indicated that unemployment can go a little bit lower without creating additional inflation pressures. Which is good from both the ability of the economy to continue to grow at a good pace without creating a lot of inflation and it shows they're probably still in wait-and-see mode as to whether we overheat this year because of the added stimulus."

"They are probably leaving themselves some room to operate given that, although the economy is likely to do well this year given the added stimulus, there is also the risk we could see a soft patch if the tariff situation continues to escalate. Like everyone else they want to see how that plays out."

MATT MISKIN, MARKET STRATEGIST AT JOHN HANCOCK INVESTMENTS:

"The guidance in terms of the future rate hikes is a touch more hawkish than originally expected. 2019 looks like we're going to get a faster pace of rate hike. This year, it looks like a similar projection."

"This a new Fed Chairman starting with a bit of a hawkish tone as he takes leadership."

"In terms of stocks, we have to see how it settles because initial reaction does not fully reflect well. I won't be surprised to see financials and banks take a little bit more of leadership role. Stocks can get through a faster rate cycle as long as the growth is there to support it, and from what the Fed is forecasting, the GDP will be enough to support equities in a tighter cycle."

AARON KOHLI , INTEREST RATE STRATEGIST, BMO CAPITAL MARKETS, NEW YORK:

“I think the Fed did a pretty good job in pulling off a hike that was fairly well choreographed and well telegraphed to everyone. Compared to my expectations it’s a very dovish scenario.

“It’s going to be really interesting to see what (Powell) says in the context of the reaction to markets. What’s important in this meeting and what’s different from the past, it’s not that the market’s reaction to the Fed is worth watching, it’s that the Fed’s reaction to markets is worth watching. Primarily its Powell’s reaction to what the market does. Does he try to direct the market the way that Bernanke did or does he play a hands off approach and let the statement speak for itself the way Yellen did? Given the muted reaction maybe there’s not much of a chance of him needing to step in, but getting that response function to the market, gauging whether the market got it right or wrong, is super important.”

RANDY FREDERICK , VICE PRESIDENT OF TRADING AND DERIVATIVES, CHARLES SCHWAB, AUSTIN, TEXAS

"There was nothing real shocking here. I think the market shooting up and back down is typical. We often see the market make a quick knee jerk reaction and it's often in the wrong direction.

"The more important thing will be when he (Fed Chairman Jerome Powell ) is talking not on script in the press conference, but no surprise here. There was a 100 percent chance I think for almost eight weeks straight now that we would get this quarter point hike.

"If he says anything that for whatever reason the markets perceive to be hawkish, that there is going to be maybe a higher level of likelihood of four hikes, then the market is likely to sell off a little bit based on that. But I don't think it will be huge."

PRAVEEN KORAPATY, GLOBAL HEAD OF INTEREST RATE STRATEGY, CREDIT SUISSE IN NEW YORK:

“It was a little more dovish than our economists were expecting. But I would say overall if I looked at it separate from expectations, I would say on course – not too hawkish, not too dovish.

“We continue to think they’re on the path for four hikes this year even though the median dots didn’t move. I think we were one dot away from the median for 2018 moving up to four hikes. So I think four hikes should be people’s’ base case.”

JUAN PEREZ, SENIOR FX TRADER AND STRATEGIST, TEMPUS CONSULTING, WASHINGTON:

“The most important thing is the Fed sticking to its original plan of three rate hikes. Anymore would be too much. Any faster increases in borrowing costs could affect the economy. I think we are pretty good where we are in terms of the current pace of rate hikes. There was some thinking we could see up to four (hikes). The other thing is that the economic outlook has strengthened and that’s a good thing. It’s very consistent with what Powell told Congress. They do think the economy is strong enough for further increases in borrowing costs.”

KATHY JONES, CHIEF FIXED INCOME STRATEGIST, SCHWAB CENTER FOR FINANCIAL RESEARCH

“I though it leaned a little bit towards the hawkish side. One more dot shift and we would have gotten the expectation for four rate hikes this year, so they were pretty close to moving in that direction.”

“They upgraded their assessment of the economy, which I think is significant. I think that’s an indication that they’re taking into consideration tax cuts and spending increases.”

“All that suggests to me that they’re leaning a little bit hawkish. I’m surprised that the market has not responded to that, but I suppose that suggests there was a feeling this was already discounted by the market.”

JEFF CARBONE , MANAGING PARTNER, CORNERSTONE WEALTH, HUNTERSVILLE, NORTH CAROLINA:

“The rate hike is no surprise. It was really reassurance about the amount of rate hikes we will get for 2018. There was no change there. That's the big thing we were looking for…Inflation is still not a concern for them. There are positives with unemployment continuing to decrease. There was reassurance that the economy is strong. We may be in the later part of the business cycle, but it's the early late stage of the business cycle. It still means there's definitely more room for the market to run.”

FRITZ FOLTS, CHIEF INVESTMENT STRATEGIST, 3EDGE ASSET MANAGEMENT LP IN BOSTON:

"Right now the equity markets are holding their break and however they read the tea leaves coming out of this press conference is, at least in the short term, going to be very influential. I don't see how you could say the Fed isn't (a risk). The Fed could certainly be a risk, and I don't think you can discount that. The problem is you have someone who's an unknown. We haven't had three press conferences with him and we don't know how to interpret what he says."

"We were comfortable not being as aggressive on equities going into this meeting because it could push markets one direction or the other."

LINDSEY BELL , INVESTMENT STRATEGIST AT CFRA RESEARCH:

"There weren’t really any surprises out of the press release, which is a good thing, and that’s why the market has reacted positively. The Fed is still expecting three rate hikes this year. They did hike 2019 by one and 2020 by two more. I think that was expected by the market.

"Going into the press conference, they’ve raised economic growth expectations and lowered unemployment, but inflation was little changed. So we’ll need a bit more explanation on that because you’d expect to see inflation moving up a bit higher in that type of environment."

JIM PAULSEN, CHIEF INVESTMENT STRATEGIST, THE LEUTHOLD GROUP , MINNEAPOLIS

"That's a Fed that really feels good about the economy, not only this year but into next year. That came through in rate hikes they put into play in 2019 and 2020. And they were only one vote away from a fourth rate hike in 2018. That tells you four hikes is very much on the table for 2018."

"The initial response by equities was to go up because of the confidence the Fed seems to have in the economy. But with bond yields going up in anticipation of more hikes in coming, that kind of scared the stock market again."

"That's the struggle the market is in. Good growth in the economy also probably means higher inflation and higher yields. The market today is a microcosm of this year. It's going nowhere fast. It goes up on good economic news it goes down on higher rate news."

RICK MECKLER, PRESIDENT, LIBERTYVIEW CAPITAL MANAGEMENT IN JERSEY CITY, NEW JERSEY

“Certainly there was no surprise in terms of the actual hike. The positive for the market is that the focus on future rate hikes seems more due to a Fed view of a better economy than necessarily inflation prevention. If the economy can grow with moderate inflation, that is certainly the ideal situation for stocks."

"That said, we are going to be continuing to see rate increases this year and it looks like next as well and that does provide more competition for equities. So I think it will be a struggle for the market to go up at the rate it has been as investors try and balance the strength of the economy with the opportunity to invest in fixed income at higher rates.” 

              
              
              
              
MARKET REACTION:
              
STOCKS: U.S. stocks extended gains, and were last up 0.7 percent. BONDS:  U.S. bond yields dipped, then rose. FOREX:  The dollar index <.DXY> hit a session low. 
              
              


(Americas Economics and Markets Desk; +1-646 223-6300) 
   RFReleased: 2018-3-21T19:36:13.000Z   COfed : Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System   NSe12 : Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | e211 : Government Budget/Taxation | ecat : Economic News | ntop : Top Wire News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1101 : Economic Growth/Recession | e21 : Government Finance | redit : Selection of Top Stories/Trends/Analysis   REusa : United States | usca : California | namz : North America | usw : Western U.S.   IPCSERVICE:ORTAO | SERVICE:OUSBSM | SERVICE:OCABSM | SERVICE:OUSTPM | SERVICE:RTRFLN | SERVICE:OUS12 | LANG:en-US | a | f | CEN | ECI | ECO | ECON | FED | FRX | INVU | LEN | MMT | PLCY | REP | TOPNWS | XREF | XRNP   IPDBusiness | Economy | Top News | US | Bangalore | India | US-USA-ECONOMY-INSTANTVIEW | USA | INSTANTVIEW   PUBThomson Reuters (Markets) LLC   ANDocument LBA0000020180321ee3l00spd  



 SEEconomy   HDFed Raises Rates and Signals Faster Pace in Coming Years; Vote to raise interest rates at the first meeting led by Jerome Powell was unanimous   BYBy Nick Timiraos    WC1,204 words   PD22 March 2018   ET00:22   SNWSJ Pro Central Banking   SCRSTPROCB   LAEnglish   CYCopyright © 2018, Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 
   LPWASHINGTON—Federal Reserve officials signaled Wednesday they could pick up the pace of interest-rate increases to cool economic growth after next year.

The Fed voted unanimously to raise its benchmark federal-funds rate by a quarter-percentage point to a range between 1.5% and 1.75%. Officials said they expected to lift it another two or three times this year, and three times next year.
   TDNew forecasts show officials project faster economic growth, higher inflation and lower unemployment in coming years.

They indicated they expect they will need to tap on the monetary brakes, raising rates in 2020 to a level that would mark the first time in more than a decade that interest-rate policy was deliberately restrictive.

Fed Chairman Jerome Powell, in his first news conference as the central bank's chief, said officials want to balance two risks. One is that they raise rates too much, causing inflation to stay below their 2% target and damaging the Fed's credibility. The other is that they raise rates too slowly, letting the economy overheat and forcing them to move more quickly, triggering a recession.

"We're trying to take the middle ground, and the committee continues to believe that the middle ground consists of further gradual increases in the federal-funds rate," Mr. Powell said.

The rate increase approved Wednesday was widely expected. Before the Fed announcement, traders in futures markets already anticipated the Fed would raise rates a total of three times this year and placed a roughly 40% probability on at least four interest-rate increases this year, according to CME Group, an operator of future exchanges.

"The Fed delivered everything they've telegraphed: strong growth, a flat trajectory on inflation and a marginally steeper path of rates," said Ed Al-Hussainy, senior global rates strategist at Columbia Threadneedle Investments, an asset manager.

Stocks seesawed after the Fed's announcement and closed lower Wednesday. The Dow Jones Industrial Average closed down 44.96 points, or 0.2%, at 24682.31, after earlier rising as much as 250 points immediately following the Fed decision. The S&P 500 declined 5.01 points, or 0.2%, to 2711.93, while the Nasdaq Composite fell 19.02 points, or 0.3%, to 7345.29.

Investors had been braced for a more aggressive position from the Fed in the near-term, Mr. Al-Hussainy said. The yield on the benchmark 10-year U.S. Treasury note climbed to 2.901% from 2.881% Tuesday. Bond yields rise as prices fall.

Before the meeting, investors' were eager to see how the Fed would react to the tax cuts and government-spending increase recently approved by Congress and President Donald Trump. Both are expected to boost economic growth.

Most Fed officials still expect to raise rates no more than three times this year. But more central bankers said they now anticipate increasing rates four times this year; seven of 15 penciled in four rate increases, up from four of 16 in December.

Most Fed officials expect to lift rates at least another three times in 2019, followed by another two times in 2020. At the December meeting, officials projected around two increases would be needed in both 2019 and 2020.

The projected moves would leave the fed-funds rate in a range between 3.25% and 3.5% by 2020. Such a level would be slightly restrictive of growth because it is nearly one half a percentage point above the level policy makers estimate would neither spur nor curb economic activity over the long run.

"Taken at face value, it's a signal there is a consensus that says, ‘We might have to tighten too much,'" said Roberto Perli, an analyst at research firm Cornerstone Macro.

Fed officials now expect the unemployment rate to decline to 3.8% by the end of this year and to 3.6% by the end of 2019, from 4.1%, where it has held since October. That is almost a full point below the rate officials expect to prevail over the long run.

Wall Street economists expect the recent changes in tax policy and government spending will push unemployment even lower than the Fed has projected next year, to levels that haven't been seen since the Korean War. Economists said it is unclear what that could do to inflation or financial stability.

The Fed has a poor record of trying to cool the economy without triggering a recession.

"It's a risky thing to do, but they might feel they have to do it because this fiscal stimulus is coming at the wrong time," Mr. Perli said.

Mr. Powell said policy under the forecast laid out Wednesday would turn "modestly restrictive" by 2020. But he also played it down by pointing to the difficulty of forecasting that far into the future.

"You could imagine narratives in which that [forecast] would make sense, but honestly, I wouldn't put too much on that," he said.

Officials release economic projections every quarter. Their latest figures show they now expect inflation to rise above their 2% target next year and to stay there in 2020.

The fact that officials didn't revise their interest-rate path higher is significant, Mr. Perli said, because it shows officials will tolerate inflation that runs slightly above the target.

Inflation has firmed in recent months after a surprising downtick last year that defied the Fed's forecasts. Consumer prices rose 1.7% in January from a year earlier, according to the central bank's preferred inflation gauge. So-called core prices, which exclude volatile food and energy categories, rose 1.5%.

Mr. Powell has worked to stress policy continuity with his predecessor, Janet Yellen. He reinforced that theme during his first appearance before the news media.

Mr. Powell said he was considering concluding all eight of the Fed's annual meetings with news conferences, instead of the current practice of holding one at every other meeting.

The goal, he said, would be to improve the central bank's public communication. But he added he wouldn't want such a shift to be seen as implying a policy change. Under Ms. Yellen and her predecessor, the Fed only made major policy announcements at the meetings followed by news conferences.

Analysts praised Mr. Powell on his clipped, direct answers to questions. "He managed very well," said Michael Feroli, chief U.S. economist at JPMorgan Chase. "He was cautious. You didn't learn much, but he didn't make blunders and stayed out of minefields."

Mr. Perli said: "Investors have a notoriously short attention span, and he was crystal clear."

Write to Nick Timiraos at nick.timiraos@wsj.com

Related

* Recap: Fed Pencils In Three Increases This Year 

* Asian Stocks Rise After Fed Rate Increase

* U.S. Dollar Extends Decline After Fed Statement

* How the March Statement Changed From January

* Heard on the Street: Sorry, But The Fed Will Be Safe Not Sorry

* Officials See Economy Slightly Overshooting 2% Inflation Target

* Borrowing Costs for Consumers Edge Upward
   COchmer : CME Group Inc. | fed : Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services | i831 : Financial Investments | i83106 : Securities/Commodity Exchange Activities | iinv : Investing/Securities   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | m11 : Equity Markets | e12 : Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ntab : Tables | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | niwe : IWE Filter   REusa : United States | usdc : Washington DC | namz : North America | uss : Southern U.S.   IPCG/FED | N/CBK | N/CMR | N/DJCS | N/DJN | N/ECO | N/EMP | N/GENI | N/IEN | N/MKT | N/NRG | N/STK | N/TAB | N/WER | R/DC | R/US   IPDFED | FED DECISION | FED MARCH MEETING | FED MEETING | FED POLICY | FED RAISES RATES | FED RATES | FED SEP | FED STATEMENT | FOMC | FOMC MARCH MEETING | FOMC MEETING | JAY POWELL | POWELL | Donald Trump | Feroli, Michael | Janet Yellen | Jerome Powell | ALERTABLE | PRO | SYND | WSJ-PRO-CB | WSJ-PRO-WSJ.com | Central Banks | WSJ.com   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument RSTPROCB20180321ee3l000ul  



 SEEconomy   HDFed Raises Rates and Signals Faster Pace in Coming Years; Vote to raise interest rates at the first meeting led by Jerome Powell was unanimous   BYBy Nick Timiraos    WC1,202 words   PD22 March 2018   ET00:22   SNThe Wall Street Journal Online   SCWSJO   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2018 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
   LPWASHINGTON—Federal Reserve officials signaled Wednesday they could pick up the pace of interest-rate increases to cool economic growth after next year.

The Fed voted unanimously to raise its benchmark federal-funds rate by a quarter-percentage point to a range between 1.5% and 1.75%. Officials said they expected to lift it another two or three times this year, and three times next year.
   TDNew forecasts show officials project faster economic growth, higher inflation and lower unemployment in coming years.

They indicated they expect they will need to tap on the monetary brakes, raising rates in 2020 to a level that would mark the first time in more than a decade that interest-rate policy was deliberately restrictive.

Fed Chairman Jerome Powell, in his first news conference as the central bank's chief, said officials want to balance two risks. One is that they raise rates too much, causing inflation to stay below their 2% target and damaging the Fed's credibility. The other is that they raise rates too slowly, letting the economy overheat and forcing them to move more quickly, triggering a recession.

"We're trying to take the middle ground, and the committee continues to believe that the middle ground consists of further gradual increases in the federal-funds rate," Mr. Powell said.

The rate increase approved Wednesday was widely expected. Before the Fed announcement, traders in futures markets already anticipated the Fed would raise rates a total of three times this year and placed a roughly 40% probability on at least four interest-rate increases this year, according to CME Group, an operator of future exchanges.

"The Fed delivered everything they've telegraphed: strong growth, a flat trajectory on inflation and a marginally steeper path of rates," said Ed Al-Hussainy, senior global rates strategist at Columbia Threadneedle Investments, an asset manager.

Stocks seesawed after the Fed's announcement and closed lower Wednesday. The Dow Jones Industrial Average closed down 44.96 points, or 0.2%, at 24682.31, after earlier rising as much as 250 points immediately following the Fed decision. The S&P 500 declined 5.01 points, or 0.2%, to 2711.93, while the Nasdaq Composite fell 19.02 points, or 0.3%, to 7345.29.

Investors had been braced for a more aggressive position from the Fed in the near-term, Mr. Al-Hussainy said. The yield on the benchmark 10-year U.S. Treasury note climbed to 2.901% from 2.881% Tuesday. Bond yields rise as prices fall.

Before the meeting, investors' were eager to see how the Fed would react to the tax cuts and government-spending increase recently approved by Congress and President Donald Trump. Both are expected to boost economic growth.

Most Fed officials still expect to raise rates no more than three times this year. But more central bankers said they now anticipate increasing rates four times this year; seven of 15 penciled in four rate increases, up from four of 16 in December.

Most Fed officials expect to lift rates at least another three times in 2019, followed by another two times in 2020. At the December meeting, officials projected around two increases would be needed in both 2019 and 2020.

The projected moves would leave the fed-funds rate in a range between 3.25% and 3.5% by 2020. Such a level would be slightly restrictive of growth because it is nearly one half a percentage point above the level policy makers estimate would neither spur nor curb economic activity over the long run.

"Taken at face value, it's a signal there is a consensus that says, 'We might have to tighten too much,'" said Roberto Perli, an analyst at research firm Cornerstone Macro.

Fed officials now expect the unemployment rate to decline to 3.8% by the end of this year and to 3.6% by the end of 2019, from 4.1%, where it has held since October. That is almost a full point below the rate officials expect to prevail over the long run.

Wall Street economists expect the recent changes in tax policy and government spending will push unemployment even lower than the Fed has projected next year, to levels that haven't been seen since the Korean War. Economists said it is unclear what that could do to inflation or financial stability.

The Fed has a poor record of trying to cool the economy without triggering a recession.

"It's a risky thing to do, but they might feel they have to do it because this fiscal stimulus is coming at the wrong time," Mr. Perli said.

Mr. Powell said policy under the forecast laid out Wednesday would turn "modestly restrictive" by 2020. But he also played it down by pointing to the difficulty of forecasting that far into the future.

"You could imagine narratives in which that [forecast] would make sense, but honestly, I wouldn't put too much on that," he said.

Officials release economic projections every quarter. Their latest figures show they now expect inflation to rise above their 2% target next year and to stay there in 2020.

The fact that officials didn't revise their interest-rate path higher is significant, Mr. Perli said, because it shows officials will tolerate inflation that runs slightly above the target.

Inflation has firmed in recent months after a surprising downtick last year that defied the Fed's forecasts. Consumer prices rose 1.7% in January from a year earlier, according to the central bank's preferred inflation gauge. So-called core prices, which exclude volatile food and energy categories, rose 1.5%.

Mr. Powell has worked to stress policy continuity with his predecessor, Janet Yellen. He reinforced that theme during his first appearance before the news media.

Mr. Powell said he was considering concluding all eight of the Fed's annual meetings with news conferences, instead of the current practice of holding one at every other meeting.

The goal, he said, would be to improve the central bank's public communication. But he added he wouldn't want such a shift to be seen as implying a policy change. Under Ms. Yellen and her predecessor, the Fed only made major policy announcements at the meetings followed by news conferences.

Analysts praised Mr. Powell on his clipped, direct answers to questions. "He managed very well," said Michael Feroli, chief U.S. economist at JPMorgan Chase. "He was cautious. You didn't learn much, but he didn't make blunders and stayed out of minefields."

Mr. Perli said: "Investors have a notoriously short attention span, and he was crystal clear."

Write to Nick Timiraos at nick.timiraos@wsj.com

Related

* Recap: Fed Pencils In Three Increases This Year 

* Asian Stocks Rise After Fed Rate Increase

* U.S. Dollar Extends Decline After Fed Statement

* How the March Statement Changed From January

* Heard on the Street: Sorry, But The Fed Will Be Safe Not Sorry

* Officials See Economy Slightly Overshooting 2% Inflation Target

* Borrowing Costs for Consumers Edge Upward
   COfed : Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | m11 : Equity Markets | e12 : Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ntab : Tables | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | niwe : IWE Filter   REusa : United States | usdc : Washington DC | namz : North America | uss : Southern U.S.   IPCG/FED | N/CBK | N/CMR | N/DJCS | N/DJN | N/ECO | N/EMP | N/GENI | N/IEN | N/MKT | N/NRG | N/STK | N/TAB | N/WER | R/DC | R/US   IPDWSJ | WSJ.com | WSJ.com Site Search | WSJAsia | WSJEurope | WSJ Japanese | Online | WSJ-PRO-WSJ.com | WSJSunday | FED | FED DECISION | FED MARCH MEETING | FED MEETING | FED POLICY | FED RAISES RATES | FED RATES | FED SEP | FED STATEMENT | FOMC | FOMC MARCH MEETING | FOMC MEETING | JAY POWELL | POWELL | SB120131101041198133275045841153729144578402 | Donald Trump | Feroli, Michael | Janet Yellen | Jerome Powell | Send Pro Alert | ALERTABLE | PRO | SYND | Central Banks | WSJ-PRO-CB | CODES_REVIEWED | Fed Tightening Timetable | CBFDETIGHTENINGTIMETABLE | Federal Reserve | CBFEDERALRESERVE | CBJEROMEPOWELL | Monetary Policy | CBMONETARYPOLICY | Top News | CBTOPNEWS   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument WSJO000020180321ee3l0050l  



 HDPowell sets record for shortest quarterly news conference by Fed chair   WC498 words   PD21 March 2018   ET23:24   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2018 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved. 
   LPWASHINGTON/SAN FRANCISCO, March 21 (Reuters) - Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell set a record on Wednesday, after the U.S. central bank delivered a widely-expected interest rate hike, by holding the briefest quarterly news conference since the Fed began giving them in April 2011.

Powell, who took the helm at the U.S. central bank in February, gave the Fed's views and took reporters' questions for 43 minutes, according to a video posted on the YouTube page of the Fed's Board of Governors.
   TDHis predecessor Janet Yellen, Fed chair from 2014 until January, made appearances lasting about 58 minutes on average during her 16 new conferences, Reuters found in a review of the videos on the Fed's YouTube page.

Powell showed a business-like approach that contrasted with the more academic style favored by Yellen, said Nathan Sheets, a former Fed economist now at PGIM Fixed Income in Newark, New Jersey.

"When she took these questions, she answered them in extremely exhaustive ways," said Sheets. "Powell's approach was much more giving what he saw as the most pertinent information."

Former Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke began the practice of holding regular news conferences in April 2011, when the U.S. economy was still struggling to gather momentum after the 2007-2009 financial crisis.

The news conferences have been seen as a tool for the Fed to more effectively communicate its expectations on the economic outlook. If investors have a better sense of what developments might change the outlook for monetary policy, that could help give the Fed better control over interest rates.

Bernanke's 11 news conferences lasted about 57 minutes on average, according to information posted on the Fed Board's YouTube page.

Bernanke, who like Yellen was a PhD economist with a background in academia, held the second-briefest quarterly news conference so far at 45 minutes.

Powell's career before the Fed included roles in investment banking and on corporate boards. He was a managing partner at the Carlyle Group, a private equity firm. Powell was also a senior official at the Treasury Department during former President George H.W. Bush's administration.

Powell said he would be "carefully considering" doing more press conferences, adding that while he and his colleagues want to communicate as clearly as possible, he wanted to "make sure that no one would take more frequent press conferences as a signal of the path of policy."

Some analysts said that is exactly how markets would take it, given that since the Fed began raising rates in 2015, it has only done so at meetings when the Fed's leader was scheduled to speak. The Fed meets eight times a year. (Reporting by Jason Lange in Washington and Ann Saphir in San Francisco Additional reporting by Lindsay Dunsmuir in Washington and Megan Davies in New York; Editing by Tom Brown) 
   RFReleased: 2018-3-21T23:24:02.000Z   COfed : Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | usnj : New Jersey | namz : North America | use : Northeast U.S.   IPCSERVICE:PTD | SERVICE:ZZ | SERVICE:NAT | SERVICE:REUFF | SERVICE:C | SERVICE:D | SERVICE:GRO | SERVICE:E | SERVICE:MTL | SERVICE:DNP | SERVICE:SOF | SERVICE:ZD | SERVICE:UCDPTEST | SERVICE:M | SERVICE:O | SERVICE:AQ | SERVICE:RAST | SERVICE:OIL | SERVICE:RNP | SERVICE:U | SERVICE:FUN | LANG:en | OEC | OVR | BISV | BISV08 | CEN | ECO | FED | FIN | FINS | FINS08 | GEN | INT | MCE | PLCY | POL | WASH   IPDBusiness | Economy | Politics | US | Americas | North America | United States | USA-FED/POWELL | USA | FED | POWELL   PUBThomson Reuters (Markets) LLC   ANDocument LBA0000020180321ee3l00yqb  



 HDNew RBNZ Gov Unlikely To Shift Policy Ground -- Market Talk   WC1,281 words   PD21 March 2018   ET22:38   SNDow Jones Institutional News   SCDJDN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright © 2018, Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 
   LP1738 ET - Reserve Bank of New Zealand Governor Grant Spencer finished his six-month term without any fireworks by leaving interest rates at 1.75% for the 16th month and reiterating that rates are unlikely to rise any time soon. The new Governor Adrian Orr is unlikely to begin with a bang when he takes over on Tuesday, not least because he will have to deal with a slowing economy and not enough inflation, but markets can't completely dismiss the possibility that he shakes things up a little, Capital Economics says. (james.glynn@wsj.com; @JamesGlynnWSJ)
   TD1736 ET - The benchmark IPC index closes up 0.9% at 47,522 points, while the Mexican peso strengthens against the US dollar to its highest level since early February, after US top trade negotiator said the US, Mexico and Canada were "starting to converge" on the key issue of auto rules amid Nafta negotiations. The peso closed in Mexico City at 18.4750 to the greenback, compared to 18.7675 late Tuesday. Telecom giant America Móvil up 0.1%, while bread-maker Bimbo gains 0.9%. ( juan.montes@wsj.com )

1729 ET - AUD/USD jumped by one US cent in reaction to the FOMC statement despite the fact that the Fed Funds rate is now above the RBA's official cash rate for the first time since December 2000. CBA says AUD usually rises during FOMC tightening cycles given it is associated with a strong world economy. Still, the currency may see some volatility in Asia as markets continue to react to the FOMC commentary. February employment data at 0030 GMT is set to show another solid month of job creation, with the jobless rate hovering at 5.5%. AUD/USD trades now at 0.7765. (james.glynn@wsj.com; @JamesGlynnWSJ)

1705 ET - The Canadian dollar rallied against the US currency after a report by the Toronto Globe and Mail that the US is dropping a contentious demand to boost the amount of US- and North American parts needed for a car to be exempt from tariffs under the North American Free Trade Agreement. Any compromise by US officials would be a departure from the hard line they've taken during negotiations, leading to expectations that Canadian exports could suffer under new trade terms. The loonie gained against the greenback even as the Federal Reserve raised interest rates and signaled that officials now expect to increase rates three times in 2019 rather than the two times they forecast at their December meeting. Higher interest rates typically boost the value of a currency by offering a greater rate of return. The Canadian dollar rose 1.3%, trading at a recent C$1.29 per U.S. dollar. (daniel.kruger@wsj.com)

The headline of a Market Talk published at 4:24pm ET should say, Antipodean Central Bank Laggards In No Rush To Hike -- Market Talk. The initial version left out the word "No" in the headline.

1639 ET - The RBNZ has kept its benchmark interest rate steady at 1.75% as expected and delivered a cautious message suggesting little risk that interest rates will rise near-term. Inflation is set to be lower near-term, it says. "The commentary was peppered with only minor tweaks. Overall, we'd characterise this as an unchanged update from the RBNZ," says Imre Speizer, strategist at Westpac. (james.glynn@wsj.com; @JamesGlynnWSJ)

1620 ET - With the Fed raising interest rates and looking to deliver more over time, it provides a stark contrast to the Reserve Bank of Australia and the Reserve Bank of New Zealand. The antipodean central banks are in no mood to join the global trend toward policy tightening. The RBNZ kept its benchmark rate on hold at 1.75% as expected, saying it expects inflation to retreat in the near-term. Both the RBA and the RBNZ look set to sit on the sidelines for all of 2018. That should put pressure on both AUD and NZD, something both central banks would welcome with open arms. (james.glynn@wsj.com; @JamesGlynnWSJ) Corrections & Amplifications

This item was corrected at 4:59 p.m. ET to clarify that the banks are in no rush to raise rates. The original headline incorrectly omitted the word no.

1447 ET - Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell told reporters that the relationship between unemployment and inflation has weakened in recent years. That relationship, known as the Phillips Curve, has underpinned monetary policy for years, leading Fed officials to expect a strong economy to produce stronger inflation. In recent years, though, some economists have suggested that link has flattened after the past few years of strong growth and lower unemployment rates have failed to significantly push up inflation. "The relationship between changes in slack and inflation is not so tight," Powell said in the press conference following the Fed's meeting. (david.harrison@wsj.com)

1415 ET - Government bond prices fell after the Federal Reserve raised short-term interest rates, as expected, but signaled it could accelerate its pace of interest-rate increases in the coming years in an effort to keep the economy from overheating. The yield on the benchmark 10-year US Treasury note was recently at 2.916%, compared with around 2.896% before the Fed's decision and 2.881% Tuesday. Yields are on track for their fourth advance in five sessions. (akane.otani@wsj.com; @akaneotani)

1404 ET - The Fed's interest rate forecasts show that the differences between its most dovish and hawkish wings may be widening. The outlook shows that one unnamed official believes the Fed should push the funds rate to nearly 5% by 2020, while one other policymaker wants the rate target over 4% by then. Those aren't historically strange numbers, but they seem quite high given officials' current views on the level of natural interest rates. Meanwhile, another Fed official, presumably St Louis Fed leader James Bullard, still thinks the current target rate should hold indefinitely, while one other official wants only modest tightening in 2019. When it comes to this debate, recent years have been pretty tough on the hawks, given that inflation has failed to flare in the way they've warned. (michael.derby@wsj.com)

1402 ET - The Fed's Summary of Economic Projections show a notable shift in policymakers' expectations, and that is that officials are now looking to slightly overshoot their 2% inflation target in coming years. This outlook should help cement the view the target is symmetric and not a ceiling. It also affirms comments from key officials that going slightly above the inflation goal is not problematic so long as it's not enduring. Whether this is a prelude to a broader debate over price level targeting, which calls for inflation overshoots to offset past shortfalls, is not clear, however. (michael.derby@wsj.com)

1302 ET - New MiFID II regulations demanding greater transparency have encouraged a switch toward lower-cost passive funds and away from actively managed funds, says Adam Laird, head of ETF strategy for Northern Europe at Lyxor ETF. "With MiFID II there is more scrutiny of investment charges," he says, "pushing people to be more conscious of the cost." This trend is very evident with equity funds and growing among bond funds too, Mr. Laird says, adding that MiFID II has shone "a light" on the fact that "some managers had great performances but the consistency wasn't there." (jessica.fleetham@wsj.com)

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

March 21, 2018 17:38 ET (21:38 GMT)
   COrbknz : Reserve Bank of New Zealand   NSe12 : Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | gpol : Domestic Politics | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | namt : All Market Talk | ndjmt : Dow Jones Market Talk | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | nfiac : Fixed Income Asset Class News | nfxacb : Forex Asset Class Basic News | nfxacp : Forex Asset Class Premium News | nfxmt : Foreign Exchange Market Talk | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | nz : New Zealand | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | namz : North America   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument DJDN000020180321ee3l003kq  



 HDCanadian Dollar Rallies on Auto Tariff Reports -- Market Talk   WC1,283 words   PD21 March 2018   ET22:05   SNDow Jones Institutional News   SCDJDN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright © 2018, Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 
   LP1705 ET - The Canadian dollar rallied against the US currency after a report by the Toronto Globe and Mail that the US is dropping a contentious demand to boost the amount of US- and North American parts needed for a car to be exempt from tariffs under the North American Free Trade Agreement. Any compromise by US officials would be a departure from the hard line they've taken during negotiations, leading to expectations that Canadian exports could suffer under new trade terms. The loonie gained against the greenback even as the Federal Reserve raised interest rates and signaled that officials now expect to increase rates three times in 2019 rather than the two times they forecast at their December meeting. Higher interest rates typically boost the value of a currency by offering a greater rate of return. The Canadian dollar rose 1.3%, trading at a recent C$1.29 per U.S. dollar. (daniel.kruger@wsj.com)
   TDThe headline of a Market Talk published at 4:24pm ET should say, Antipodean Central Bank Laggards In No Rush To Hike -- Market Talk. The initial version left out the word "No" in the headline.

1639 ET - The RBNZ has kept its benchmark interest rate steady at 1.75% as expected and delivered a cautious message suggesting little risk that interest rates will rise near-term. Inflation is set to be lower near-term, it says. "The commentary was peppered with only minor tweaks. Overall, we'd characterise this as an unchanged update from the RBNZ," says Imre Speizer, strategist at Westpac. (james.glynn@wsj.com; @JamesGlynnWSJ)

1620 ET - With the Fed raising interest rates and looking to deliver more over time, it provides a stark contrast to the Reserve Bank of Australia and the Reserve Bank of New Zealand. The antipodean central banks are in no mood to join the global trend toward policy tightening. The RBNZ kept its benchmark rate on hold at 1.75% as expected, saying it expects inflation to retreat in the near-term. Both the RBA and the RBNZ look set to sit on the sidelines for all of 2018. That should put pressure on both AUD and NZD, something both central banks would welcome with open arms. (james.glynn@wsj.com; @JamesGlynnWSJ) Corrections & Amplifications

This item was corrected at 4:59 p.m. ET to clarify that the banks are in no rush to raise rates. The original headline incorrectly omitted the word no.

1447 ET - Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell told reporters that the relationship between unemployment and inflation has weakened in recent years. That relationship, known as the Phillips Curve, has underpinned monetary policy for years, leading Fed officials to expect a strong economy to produce stronger inflation. In recent years, though, some economists have suggested that link has flattened after the past few years of strong growth and lower unemployment rates have failed to significantly push up inflation. "The relationship between changes in slack and inflation is not so tight," Powell said in the press conference following the Fed's meeting. (david.harrison@wsj.com)

1415 ET - Government bond prices fell after the Federal Reserve raised short-term interest rates, as expected, but signaled it could accelerate its pace of interest-rate increases in the coming years in an effort to keep the economy from overheating. The yield on the benchmark 10-year US Treasury note was recently at 2.916%, compared with around 2.896% before the Fed's decision and 2.881% Tuesday. Yields are on track for their fourth advance in five sessions. (akane.otani@wsj.com; @akaneotani)

1404 ET - The Fed's interest rate forecasts show that the differences between its most dovish and hawkish wings may be widening. The outlook shows that one unnamed official believes the Fed should push the funds rate to nearly 5% by 2020, while one other policymaker wants the rate target over 4% by then. Those aren't historically strange numbers, but they seem quite high given officials' current views on the level of natural interest rates. Meanwhile, another Fed official, presumably St Louis Fed leader James Bullard, still thinks the current target rate should hold indefinitely, while one other official wants only modest tightening in 2019. When it comes to this debate, recent years have been pretty tough on the hawks, given that inflation has failed to flare in the way they've warned. (michael.derby@wsj.com)

1402 ET - The Fed's Summary of Economic Projections show a notable shift in policymakers' expectations, and that is that officials are now looking to slightly overshoot their 2% inflation target in coming years. This outlook should help cement the view the target is symmetric and not a ceiling. It also affirms comments from key officials that going slightly above the inflation goal is not problematic so long as it's not enduring. Whether this is a prelude to a broader debate over price level targeting, which calls for inflation overshoots to offset past shortfalls, is not clear, however. (michael.derby@wsj.com)

1302 ET - New MiFID II regulations demanding greater transparency have encouraged a switch toward lower-cost passive funds and away from actively managed funds, says Adam Laird, head of ETF strategy for Northern Europe at Lyxor ETF. "With MiFID II there is more scrutiny of investment charges," he says, "pushing people to be more conscious of the cost." This trend is very evident with equity funds and growing among bond funds too, Mr. Laird says, adding that MiFID II has shone "a light" on the fact that "some managers had great performances but the consistency wasn't there." (jessica.fleetham@wsj.com)

1210 ET - Eurozone periphery government bond yield spreads don't face any particular risks on a three-month horizon after the Italian elections. "Given the post-Italian election stalemate, we see little risks to spreads," BNP Paribas says. It holds eurozone periphery bonds as "marginal underweight" on a three-month horizon. On a 12-month horizon, however, it has "underweight" on eurozone periphery as it expects ECB tapering to impact spreads as markets price in credit risks. BNP Paribas also believes that lack of reform will be an issue on a longer horizon as growth slows. (emese.bartha@wsj.com; @EmeseBartha)

1159 ET - BNP Paribas holds U.K. gilts at marginal underweight on a three-month horizon and underweight on a 12-month horizon. It says that in the near term, global rates rises and progress on Brexit are set to weaken gilts--driving yields up. On the longer horizon, meanwhile, global tightening and rising domestic price pressures indicate weaker bond prices, as expectations of a Bank of England rate hike increase, BNP Paribas says. (emese.bartha@wsj.com; @EmeseBartha)

1210 ET - The international context, with U.S. President Donald Trump threatening with import tariffs and Russia allegedly poisoning a former spy living in London, "really highlights the need for the U.K. to strike a good Brexit deal," says Audrey Childe-Freeman, chief strategist at FX Knowledge. The U.K. "looks increasingly isolated," she says. Monday's announcement that the U.K. has agreed on a two-year Brexit transition deal with the EU "was symbolic," Ms. Childe-Freeman says, pointing to the fact that there is a smaller chance of a hard Brexit. But the Irish border issue remains unresolved and any negative Brexit news may dampen investors' willingness to buy sterling, she says. (olga.cotaga@wsj.com; @OlgaCotaga)

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

March 21, 2018 17:05 ET (21:05 GMT)
   COfed : Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System | nafree : North American Free Trade Agreement   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Monetary Policy | e512 : Physical Trade | m132 : Foreign Exchange Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | namt : All Market Talk | ndjmt : Dow Jones Market Talk | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | nfiac : Fixed Income Asset Class News | nfxacb : Forex Asset Class Basic News | nfxacp : Forex Asset Class Premium News | nfxmt : Foreign Exchange Market Talk | ntcs : Top Canadian Stories | ntop : Top Wire News | e51 : Trade/External Payments | ecat : Economic News | m13 : Money/Currency Markets | ncat : Content Types | ndj : Dow Jones Top Stories | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | redit : Selection of Top Stories/Trends/Analysis   REusa : United States | cana : Canada | namz : North America   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument DJDN000020180321ee3l003ck  



 HDEXPLAINER-What the  Federal Reserve  rate hike means for U.S. households   WC874 words   PD21 March 2018   ET20:33   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2018 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved. 
   LP(Updates following Fed rate hike announcement)

By Kate Duguid
   TDNEW YORK, March 21 (Reuters) - The effects of the Federal Reserveinterest rate hike announced on Wednesday will extend beyond corporate America to household budgets.

Most people will see at least a minor impact on their credit card statements in the next few billing cycles, while those with adjustable-rate mortgages, home equity lines of credit, auto loans and other loans with variable rates of interest will be hit hardest.

Credit cards with fixed interest rates and annual percentage rates that don't change for a set period of time won't be immediately affected.

Fixed-rate mortgages are also going to become more expensive, which could have a chilling effect on the real estate market. Higher interest rates typically depress home values by making monthly mortgage payments more expensive.

The Fed lifted its benchmark overnight lending rate by a quarter of a percentage point to a range of 1.50 percent to 1.75 percent at the end of a two-day policy meeting on Wednesday. The U.S. central bank also forecast at least two more hikes for 2018, signaling growing confidence in the strengthening economy, which could lead to more aggressive future tightening.

"The cumulative effect (of rate hikes) can be quite significant," said Greg McBride, chief financial analyst for Bankrate.com.

WHICH CONSUMER RATES WILL BE MOST AFFECTED?

The average rate on a five-year Treasury-indexed adjustable-rate mortgage is currently about 3.67 percent, according to Freddie Mac. ARM rates are modified annually, so a 0.25 percentage point increase in the rate in March wouldn’t have an immediate effect. But when it does kick in, it could add up to $1,250 a year to interest payments on a $500,000 mortgage.

That mortgage owner could pay an additional $312.50 a month, or $3,750 a year, in interest if the Fed follows through with two more quarter-point hikes this year.

The rate hike on Wednesday could add $12.50 a year in interest to a credit card with a balance of $5,000 and an interest rate of 14.99 percent, the average in the fourth quarter of 2017, according to Fed data.

That doesn't sound like much. Even $37.50 a year, the amount three quarter-point rate increases this year would add, may not shock households.

But consider that approximately $62.50 a year has already been added as a result of the Fed's previous five rate hikes since late 2015, and interest payments may be up by $100 at the end of the year.

WHAT HAPPENS TO HOME EQUITY CREDIT LINES?

Interest rates on home equity credit lines are lower, at around 5 percent. "For somebody with a $30,000 home equity line, a quarter-point rate hike increases the minimum payment by $6 a month. But, this now being the sixth interest rate hike, the cumulative effect since December 2015 is that a $30,000 home equity line now carries a minimum payment that is $37 a month higher," McBride said.

Those relationships are not quite so neat in practice. The federal funds rate, which the Fed determines directly, sets the rate at which banks lend money to one another. But there are more factors that determine the interest rate on a consumer loan.

"For every 100-basis-point increase in the fed funds rate, historically, it has been the case that the adjustable-rate mortgage rate would go up by 70 basis points," said Michael Cox, founding director of the O'Neil Center for Global Markets and Freedom at Southern Methodist University in Dallas, Texas.

ARE RATE HIKES A SIGN THE ECONOMY IS OVERHEATING?

U.S. economic strength is evident with the unemployment rate at a 17-year low and companies receiving windfalls from President Donald Trump's tax cuts, which they may reinvest to create jobs and improve wages.

But U.S. wage growth has remained sluggish and household budgets are tight. Though wages improved in January at the best pace since 2009, worker pay hasn't made significant improvements since the 2007-2009 recession.

There is evidence in rising debt levels: American households owed a record high total of $13.15 trillion at the end of 2017, according to data from the New York Fed.

If wages don't rise as rate hikes mount, contracted spending could eventually lead to a broader economic slowdown.

IS THERE ANY GOOD NEWS WITH RATE HIKES?

Savers benefit as yields on savings accounts and certificates of deposit edge higher. The average national savings account interest rate was 0.6 percent before the Fed began raising rates in 2015, according to FDIC data. It is now 0.7 percent.

Rates on a 36-month certificate of deposit have gone from 0.48 percent to 0.65 percent. There are, however, internet banks including Synchrony and Goldman Sachs' Marcus that are engaged in an arms race of raising rates on savings accounts, which are 1.55 percent at the upper end, and CDs. (Reporting by Kate Duguid Editing by Jennifer Ablan and Paul Simao) 
   RFReleased: 2018-3-21T20:33:29.000Z   COfed : Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCSERVICE:PSC | SERVICE:ZZ | SERVICE:REUFF | SERVICE:C | SERVICE:D | SERVICE:GRO | SERVICE:E | SERVICE:MTL | SERVICE:G | SERVICE:SOF | SERVICE:ZD | SERVICE:UCDPTEST | SERVICE:M | SERVICE:PGE | SERVICE:O | SERVICE:RAST | SERVICE:OIL | SERVICE:RNP | SERVICE:U | SERVICE:RBN | SERVICE:FUN | LANG:en | OEC | OVR | BISV | BISV08 | BSVC | CCRE | CDM | CEN | COCRED | COFS | DBT | ECI | ECO | EXPLN | FED | FIN | FINS | FINS08 | FUND | GEN | INT | INVBIS | INVM | INVS08 | JOB | LOA | MCE | MTG | NEWS1 | PLCY | POL | REAM | TOPCMB | TOPNWS | WASH | WLTH | WLTH08   IPDBusiness | Economy | Politics | US | Americas | North America | United States | USA-FED/HOUSEHOLDS (UPDATE 1, EXPLAINER) | Goldman Sachs Group Inc | USA | FED | HOUSEHOLDS (UPDATE 1, EXPLAINER)   PUBThomson Reuters (Markets) LLC   ANDocument LBA0000020180321ee3l00v91  



 HDThe Latest: Powell's press briefing shorter than Yellen's   WC1,299 words   PD21 March 2018   ET21:03   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2018.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved. 
   LPWASHINGTON (AP) — The Latest on the Federal Reserve's monetary policy meeting (all times local):

___
   TD3:55 p.m.

New Fed chairman Jerome Powell's first press conference clocked in at about 45 minutes, shorter than his predecessor Janet Yellen, who typically went for about an hour.

Powell took plenty of questions, but his answers were shorter than Yellen's, who frequently gave careful, economically complex responses that sometimes seemed intended to run out the clock.

Powell, however, is not an economist. He replaced Yellen, who had a Ph.D. in the subject, last month.

___

3:30 p.m.

Like many economists, Powell says that the slow pace of wage growth is a bit of a puzzle. With the unemployment rate at a 17-year low of 4.1 percent and businesses loudly complaining that they can't find enough workers, economic theory suggests that employers should be raising pay more quickly than their current pace of about 2.5 percent a year.

"I've been surprised by that, and I think others have as well," Powell says during his first press conference as Fed chairman.

Still, he suggested some explanations: Paychecks largely reflect the pace of inflation and the growth of productivity, a measure of how efficient workers are. Both inflation and productivity growth are sluggish, which suggests wages should be as well.

___

3:05 p.m.

Powell says Fed officials haven't lowered their economic growth forecasts because of the Trump administration's moves to impose tariffs on steel and aluminum imports. But he says Federal Reserve Bank presidents around the country have heard concerns from businesses in their districts about the impact of the tariffs.

"Trade policy has become a concern going forward for that group," he says, referring to business leaders.

But among Fed officials meeting in Washington Tuesday and Wednesday, Powell says, "There's no thought that changes in trade policy should have any effect on the current outlook."

___

2:45 p.m.

Powell says in his first press conference that he is thinking about holding more press briefings than his predecessor, Janet Yellen.

"That is something I am carefully considering, have not made a decision yet," he said.

Currently the Fed holds four press conferences a year, following meetings when they issue their quarterly economic projections. It's a practice instituted by Former Fed chairman Ben Bernanke. Yet the Fed actually meets eight times a year. Many analysts expect rate increases will only be announced during those four meetings, so adding press conferences could give the Fed more flexibility in the timing of future rate hikes.

___

2:05 p.m.

Fed policymakers expect to raise their benchmark interest rate three times in 2019. That's up from an earlier forecast of two, amid expectations of faster economic growth that they forecast will push the unemployment rate to its lowest level in a half-century. Contrary to many analysts' expectations, they did not change their forecast of three rate hikes this year.

Fed policymakers now expect the unemployment rate to drop to 3.6 percent by the end of next year, down from their previous estimate in December of 3.9 percent and far below the current rate of 4.1 percent. They project the rate will fall to 3.8 percent at the end of this year, down one-tenth of a point from its previous estimate.

The Fed now sees the economy growing more quickly, expanding 2.7 percent this year, up from a previous estimate of 2.5 percent. Growth will be 2.4 percent next year, the Fed expects, up from 2.1 percent. With growth picking up and unemployment low, policymakers expect core inflation — which excludes the food and energy categories — to rise 2.1 percent in 2019 and 2020. That's slightly above their 2 percent target.

___

2:00 p.m.

The Fed has lifted its benchmark interest rate by a quarter-point to a range of 1.5 percent to 1.75 percent. It is the sixth increase since December 2015, when it began raising rates from rock-bottom levels. The rate hike is the first under new Fed Chairman Jerome Powell, who replaced Janet Yellen last month.

The economy is growing moderately and "job gains have been strong in recent months," Fed policymakers say in a statement following the conclusion of its two-day meeting.

Fed policymakers expect to hike just three times this year, consistent with its last forecast in December. Some economists expected the Fed would signal a fourth hike this year.

___

12:50 p.m.

U.S. stocks are trading higher Wednesday afternoon as investors await news on whether the Fed will raise short-term interest rates at the completion of its two-day meeting. The decision will be released at 2:00 p.m.

Investors will also look for signs that Fed policymakers are leaning toward four rate hikes this year, rather than the three that financial markets currently expect.

Fed policymakers will also release their quarterly economic projections after the meeting. Analysts expect that they will slightly raise their forecasts for economic growth and lower their projections for the unemployment rate.

___

11:00 a.m.

U.S. stocks are mixed Wednesday morning as investors wait for news on interest rates from the Fed. The Fed is widely expected to raise rates, and investors will be watching closely for clues about how many more increases the central bank may make this year and also for the Fed's assessment of how the economy is doing.

It's also the first Fed meeting since Jerome Powell took over as chairman, although so far Powell hasn't made any major breaks with the policies of predecessor Janet Yellen. Bond yields are little changed after they jumped on Tuesday.

___

6:15 a.m.

Investors are cautious as they await the outcome of the U.S. Federal Reserve's first meeting under its new chairman, Jerome Powell, and his subsequent news conference.

The Fed is set to announce its first interest rate increase of the year, a testament to the continued strength of the economy and of the job market in particular. The central bank raised rates modestly three times in 2017 under Powell's predecessor, Janet Yellen, whom he succeeded last month.

Once its meeting ends at 2 p.m. Eastern time Wednesday, the Fed will issue a policy statement and update its economic projections before Powell begins taking questions from reporters.

Dow and S&P 500 futures were down 0.1 percent ahead of the Fed announcement, while the dollar was down 0.2 percent at 106.30 yen.
   ARTFederal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell speaks following the Federal Open Market Committee meeting in Washington, Wednesday, March 21, 2018. The Federal Reserve is raising its benchmark interest rate to reflect a solid U.S. economy and signaling that it's sticking with a gradual approach to rate hikes for 2018 under its new chairman, Jerome Powell. (AP Photo/Carolyn Kaster) | Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell arrives or a news conference following the Federal Open Market Committee meeting in Washington, Wednesday, March 21, 2018. The Federal Reserve is raising its benchmark interest rate to reflect a solid U.S. economy and signaling that it's sticking with a gradual approach to rate hikes for 2018 under its new chairman, Jerome Powell. (AP Photo/Carolyn Kaster) | Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell speaks following the 2018 Federal Open Market Committee meeting in Washington, Wednesday, March 21, 2018. The Federal Reserve is raising its benchmark interest rate to reflect a solid U.S. economy and signaling that it's sticking with a gradual approach to rate hikes for 2018 under its new chairman, Jerome Powell. (AP Photo/Carolyn Kaster)    COfed : Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System   NSe12 : Monetary Policy | e1116 : Employment/Unemployment | e1202 : Interest Rates | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCw   IPDAPFN | US | Federal Reserve | The Latest | BC-US--Federal Reserve-The Latest,7th Ld-Writethru | National | GOVERNMENT_FIGURE | PERSON | Ben Bernanke | Janet Yellen | Jerome Powell | Business | General news | Employment figures | Labor economy | Economy | Leading economic indicators | Central bank interest rates | Monetary policy | Economic policy | Government business and finance | Government and politics | Government policy | Economic outlook | Unemployment | Labor issues | Social issues | Social affairs | Central banking | Banking and credit | Financial services | Inflation | Prices | Economic growth | Currency markets | Financial markets | Running | AP National News Report (A Wire)   PUBThe Associated Press   ANDocument APRS000020180321ee3l00ane  



 HDOil Stays at 6-Week High After Fed -- Market Talk   WC1,311 words   PD21 March 2018   ET19:32   SNDow Jones Institutional News   SCDJDN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright © 2018, Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 
   LP1432 ET - Oil prices remain stronger at six-week highs above $65/bbl after the Fed raises interest rates as expected and continues to signal a total of three hikes for all of 2018. Some in the market speculated the Fed may change to a four rate-hike schedule this year given recently-stronger economic data, a move that might have boosted the dollar and weakened oil. Instead, the WSJ dollar index slips after the Fed statement, helping to consolidate oil's strong gains this morning on the back of data that showed a bullish decline in US oil inventories. The Nymex oil contract for May delivery recently trades 2.6% higher at $65.18/bbl. (dan.molinski@wsj.com)
   TD1422 ET - The activists at Fed Up are pretty disheartened by today's rate rise. Jordan Haedtler says in a statement "the Fed is still overly fixated on inflation risks." He goes on to say, "today's decision to raise interest rates again shows that the Fed is ignoring the data and instead prioritizing theoretical inflation over jobs and wages." (michael.derby@wsj.com)

1420 ET - Mega-mergers between some of the world's largest crop seed and pesticide suppliers have shrunk the industry's so-called "Big Six" down to four, but the European Commission's competition authority also claims a role in building up new agricultural powers. "Bayer can only merge with Monsanto if we find that BASF can replace Bayer as the fourth player by essentially taking over Bayer's current seeds and trait activities," says Margrethe Vestager, the European Commissioner for Competition, in granting approval to Bayer's purchase of Monsanto. The EU also required the sale of some DuPont pesticides business to FMC, a smaller chemical company, in approving the Dow Chemical-DuPont merger last year, another move that Vestager said created a larger, stronger competitor that "could take over DuPont's place." (jacob.bunge@wsj.com; @jacobbunge)

1415 ET - Government bond prices fell after the Federal Reserve raised short-term interest rates, as expected, but signaled it could accelerate its pace of interest-rate increases in the coming years in an effort to keep the economy from overheating. The yield on the benchmark 10-year US Treasury note was recently at 2.916%, compared with around 2.896% before the Fed's decision and 2.881% Tuesday. Yields are on track for their fourth advance in five sessions. (akane.otani@wsj.com; @akaneotani)

1412 ET - Federal Reserve officials made a few slight tweaks to their March statement. The best news? "The economic outlook has strengthened in recent months," the statement says, a new addition from January. Another change was to the way they describe the economy's performance since their last meeting. Economic activity has been rising at a "moderate rate", the statement said Wednesday, a change from the "solid rate" they assessed in their January and December statements, which likely reflects the fact that the first quarter tends to be the weakest of the year. Fed officials have a positive view of the labor market, as "job gains have been strong in recent months, and the unemployment rate has stayed low," according to the March statement. (harriet.torry@wsj.com; @HarrietTorry)

1409 ET - Having battled weak inflation for years, Fed officials are gearing up for stronger price pressures, according to their March statement. Annual inflation "is expected to move up in coming months," the statement says, a change from the January statement which said inflation was expected to move up "this year." Inflation will likely stabilize around 2% "in the medium term," the statement reiterated. (harriet.torry@wsj.com; @HarrietTorry)

1408 ET - Federal Reserve officials voted unanimously to raise short-term interest rates a quarter percentage point to a range between 1.5% and 1.75% at their March meeting, as widely expected. Policy makers see the economy growing at a faster clip this year and next than they did in December, and their policy statement pointed to strong job gains and a better economic outlook. While the median projection for rate increases this year was still for three at the March meeting, next year's projection moved up from two to three. (harriet.torry@wsj.com; @HarrietTorry)

1405 ET - Federal Reserve officials expect economic output will grow a robust 2.7% in the fourth quarter of this year from the previous year, according to estimates released following the central bank's meeting Wednesday. In December, the Fed pegged 2018 growth at 2.5%. The Fed also sees the unemployment rate dipping down to 3.8% this year from the 3.9% projected in December. The changes are an indication the Fed's economic outlook has strengthened in recent months, in part due to the effects of tax cuts and the recent budget deal reached in Congress. (david.harrison@wsj.com)

1404 ET - The Fed's interest rate forecasts show that the differences between its most dovish and hawkish wings may be widening. The outlook shows that one unnamed official believes the Fed should push the funds rate to nearly 5% by 2020, while one other policymaker wants the rate target over 4% by then. Those aren't historically strange numbers, but they seem quite high given officials' current views on the level of natural interest rates. Meanwhile, another Fed official, presumably St Louis Fed leader James Bullard, still thinks the current target rate should hold indefinitely, while one other official wants only modest tightening in 2019. When it comes to this debate, recent years have been pretty tough on the hawks, given that inflation has failed to flare in the way they've warned. (michael.derby@wsj.com)

1404 ET - Federal Reserve officials maintained their median projection of three quarter-percentage point rate increases this year but anticipated a steeper path of rate increases in 2019, according to projections released following their meeting Wednesday. Officials now pencil in three rate increases in 2019, up from two projected at the December meeting. They maintained their projection of two rate increases in 2020, bringing their benchmark interest rate to 3.4% by the end of 2020, up from 3.1% projected in December. In the weeks leading up to the meeting, several Fed officials had indicated they believed a steeper rate path would be necessary because of the economy's strength. (david.harrison@wsj.com)

-0-

1402 ET - The Fed's Summary of Economic Projections show a notable shift in policymakers' expectations, and that is that officials are now looking to slightly overshoot their 2% inflation target in coming years. This outlook should help cement the view the target is symmetric and not a ceiling. It also affirms comments from key officials that going slightly above the inflation goal is not problematic so long as it's not enduring. Whether this is a prelude to a broader debate over price level targeting, which calls for inflation overshoots to offset past shortfalls, is not clear, however. (michael.derby@wsj.com)

1352 ET - United Airlines CEO Oscar Munoz straight out the gate with an apology for recent missteps, including the now-notorious death of a passenger's dog on a flight to New York. "We got it wrong last week," Munoz says at an industry event in Chicago. "It should have never, ever happened." While calls on social media for a United boycott have petered out, the airline's expansion plans continue to unnerve investors, with Southwest the latest apparent victim as its 1Q revenue softened from prior expectations. "It is not testosterone," says Munoz. "It's very clear, customer-orientated growth." (doug.cameron@wsj.com; dougcameron)

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

March 21, 2018 14:32 ET (18:32 GMT)
   COfed : Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Monetary Policy | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mcroil : Crude Oil Markets | namt : All Market Talk | nanl : Analyses | ndjmt : Dow Jones Market Talk | nenac : Energy Asset Class News | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | nfxacb : Forex Asset Class Basic News | nfxacp : Forex Asset Class Premium News | c151 : Earnings | c15 : Financial Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ecat : Economic News | m14 : Commodity Markets | m143 : Energy Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument DJDN000020180321ee3l002p6  



 HDDollar Extends Losses As  Federal Reserve  Sticks With Guidance Of 3 Hikes This Year -- MarketWatch   WC162 words   PD21 March 2018   ET19:16   SNDow Jones Institutional News   SCDJDN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright © 2018, Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 
   LPThe U.S. Dollar sold off on Wednesday following a the Federal Reserve's policy announcement that included a dovish interest rate hike. While the central bank raised rates by 25 basis points, in line with expectations, it also stuck with its plan to only complete another two additional rate hikes -- three in total -- this year. Analysts had been hopeful for a revision of the Fed's 'dot plots', which measure the expected rate hikes, from three to four this year. The greenback, which had been weak ahead of the announcement, extended its losses across the board in response. The ICE U.S. Dollar Index dropped 0.6% to 873. A press conference discussing the policy announcement will take place at 2.30 p.m. Eastern.

-Anneken Tappe 
   TD
 For more from MarketWatch: http://www.marketwatch.com/newsviewer

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

March 21, 2018 14:16 ET (18:16 GMT)
   COfed : Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System   NSe12 : Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | m132 : Foreign Exchange Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | nfiac : Fixed Income Asset Class News | ecat : Economic News | m13 : Money/Currency Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument DJDN000020180321ee3l002m9  



 HDTreasury Yields Rise As Fed Could Speed Up Rate Hikes -- Market Talk   WC1,212 words   PD21 March 2018   ET19:15   SNDow Jones Institutional News   SCDJDN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright © 2018, Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 
   LP1415 ET - Government bond prices fell after the Federal Reserve raised short-term interest rates, as expected, but signaled it could accelerate its pace of interest-rate increases in the coming years in an effort to keep the economy from overheating. The yield on the benchmark 10-year US Treasury note was recently at 2.916%, compared with around 2.896% before the Fed's decision and 2.881% Tuesday. Yields are on track for their fourth advance in five sessions. (akane.otani@wsj.com; @akaneotani)
   TD1412 ET - Federal Reserve officials made a few slight tweaks to their March statement. The best news? "The economic outlook has strengthened in recent months," the statement says, a new addition from January. Another change was to the way they describe the economy's performance since their last meeting. Economic activity has been rising at a "moderate rate", the statement said Wednesday, a change from the "solid rate" they assessed in their January and December statements, which likely reflects the fact that the first quarter tends to be the weakest of the year. Fed officials have a positive view of the labor market, as "job gains have been strong in recent months, and the unemployment rate has stayed low," according to the March statement. (harriet.torry@wsj.com; @HarrietTorry)

1409 ET - Having battled weak inflation for years, Fed officials are gearing up for stronger price pressures, according to their March statement. Annual inflation "is expected to move up in coming months," the statement says, a change from the January statement which said inflation was expected to move up "this year." Inflation will likely stabilize around 2% "in the medium term," the statement reiterated. (harriet.torry@wsj.com; @HarrietTorry)

1408 ET - Federal Reserve officials voted unanimously to raise short-term interest rates a quarter percentage point to a range between 1.5% and 1.75% at their March meeting, as widely expected. Policy makers see the economy growing at a faster clip this year and next than they did in December, and their policy statement pointed to strong job gains and a better economic outlook. While the median projection for rate increases this year was still for three at the March meeting, next year's projection moved up from two to three. (harriet.torry@wsj.com; @HarrietTorry)

1405 ET - Federal Reserve officials expect economic output will grow a robust 2.7% in the fourth quarter of this year from the previous year, according to estimates released following the central bank's meeting Wednesday. In December, the Fed pegged 2018 growth at 2.5%. The Fed also sees the unemployment rate dipping down to 3.8% this year from the 3.9% projected in December. The changes are an indication the Fed's economic outlook has strengthened in recent months, in part due to the effects of tax cuts and the recent budget deal reached in Congress. (david.harrison@wsj.com)

1404 ET - The Fed's interest rate forecasts show that the differences between its most dovish and hawkish wings may be widening. The outlook shows that one unnamed official believes the Fed should push the funds rate to nearly 5% by 2020, while one other policymaker wants the rate target over 4% by then. Those aren't historically strange numbers, but they seem quite high given officials' current views on the level of natural interest rates. Meanwhile, another Fed official, presumably St Louis Fed leader James Bullard, still thinks the current target rate should hold indefinitely, while one other official wants only modest tightening in 2019. When it comes to this debate, recent years have been pretty tough on the hawks, given that inflation has failed to flare in the way they've warned. (michael.derby@wsj.com)

1404 ET - Federal Reserve officials maintained their median projection of three quarter-percentage point rate increases this year but anticipated a steeper path of rate increases in 2019, according to projections released following their meeting Wednesday. Officials now pencil in three rate increases in 2019, up from two projected at the December meeting. They maintained their projection of two rate increases in 2020, bringing their benchmark interest rate to 3.4% by the end of 2020, up from 3.1% projected in December. In the weeks leading up to the meeting, several Fed officials had indicated they believed a steeper rate path would be necessary because of the economy's strength. (david.harrison@wsj.com)

-0-

1402 ET - The Fed's Summary of Economic Projections show a notable shift in policymakers' expectations, and that is that officials are now looking to slightly overshoot their 2% inflation target in coming years. This outlook should help cement the view the target is symmetric and not a ceiling. It also affirms comments from key officials that going slightly above the inflation goal is not problematic so long as it's not enduring. Whether this is a prelude to a broader debate over price level targeting, which calls for inflation overshoots to offset past shortfalls, is not clear, however. (michael.derby@wsj.com)

1352 ET - United Airlines CEO Oscar Munoz straight out the gate with an apology for recent missteps, including the now-notorious death of a passenger's dog on a flight to New York. "We got it wrong last week," Munoz says at an industry event in Chicago. "It should have never, ever happened." While calls on social media for a United boycott have petered out, the airline's expansion plans continue to unnerve investors, with Southwest the latest apparent victim as its 1Q revenue softened from prior expectations. "It is not testosterone," says Munoz. "It's very clear, customer-orientated growth." (doug.cameron@wsj.com; dougcameron)

1309 ET - Starbucks said it has achieved pay equity among women and men and employees of all races in the US and is now committing to achieve pay equity for employees performing similar work in all of its company-operated markets globally. Workers' rights advocates have long been pushing companies to close the pay gap between men and women and between white employees and people of different racial backgrounds. (julie.jargon@wsj.com)

1120 ET - Crude oil prices remain strong as the EIA's weekly figure on total stockpiles of oil and petroleum products, which some analysts call the "everything including the kitchen sink number," drops again to a nearly three-year low. The total stockpiles figure, which adds up crude oil, gasoline, distillates, jet fuel and more, stands at 1.19B bbls as of Friday, its lowest since April 2015 and well below record-highs of 1.37B bbls in August 2016. WTI rises 1.8% at $64.68/bbl. (dan.molinski@wsj.com)

1105 ET - Pilots at the ATI unit of air cargo carrier ATSG ratify a new three-year deal that includes pay rises of up to 55%, according to their union. That likely means higher shipping rates for its two biggest customers, Amazon and DHL, though should also remove pilot-related operational disruptions. (doug.cameron@wsj.com; @dougcameron)

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

March 21, 2018 14:15 ET (18:15 GMT)
   COfed : Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Monetary Policy | e1116 : Employment/Unemployment | e212 : Government Borrowing | ecat : Economic News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mntdbt : National Government Debt/Bond Markets | namt : All Market Talk | ndjmt : Dow Jones Market Talk | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | nfiac : Fixed Income Asset Class News | nfxacb : Forex Asset Class Basic News | nfxacp : Forex Asset Class Premium News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e21 : Government Finance | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument DJDN000020180321ee3l002r2  



 HDTreasury Yields Rise As Fed Could Speed Up Rate Hikes -- Market Talk   WC1,410 words   PD21 March 2018   ET19:15   SNDow Jones Institutional News   SCDJDN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright © 2018, Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 
   LP1415 ET - Government bond prices fell after the Federal Reserve raised short-term interest rates, as expected, but signaled it could accelerate its pace of interest-rate increases in the coming years in an effort to keep the economy from overheating. The yield on the benchmark 10-year US Treasury note was recently at 2.916%, compared with around 2.896% before the Fed's decision and 2.881% Tuesday. Yields are on track for their fourth advance in five sessions. (akane.otani@wsj.com; @akaneotani)
   TD1404 ET - The Fed's interest rate forecasts show that the differences between its most dovish and hawkish wings may be widening. The outlook shows that one unnamed official believes the Fed should push the funds rate to nearly 5% by 2020, while one other policymaker wants the rate target over 4% by then. Those aren't historically strange numbers, but they seem quite high given officials' current views on the level of natural interest rates. Meanwhile, another Fed official, presumably St Louis Fed leader James Bullard, still thinks the current target rate should hold indefinitely, while one other official wants only modest tightening in 2019. When it comes to this debate, recent years have been pretty tough on the hawks, given that inflation has failed to flare in the way they've warned. (michael.derby@wsj.com)

1402 ET - The Fed's Summary of Economic Projections show a notable shift in policymakers' expectations, and that is that officials are now looking to slightly overshoot their 2% inflation target in coming years. This outlook should help cement the view the target is symmetric and not a ceiling. It also affirms comments from key officials that going slightly above the inflation goal is not problematic so long as it's not enduring. Whether this is a prelude to a broader debate over price level targeting, which calls for inflation overshoots to offset past shortfalls, is not clear, however. (michael.derby@wsj.com)

1302 ET - New MiFID II regulations demanding greater transparency have encouraged a switch toward lower-cost passive funds and away from actively managed funds, says Adam Laird, head of ETF strategy for Northern Europe at Lyxor ETF. "With MiFID II there is more scrutiny of investment charges," he says, "pushing people to be more conscious of the cost." This trend is very evident with equity funds and growing among bond funds too, Mr. Laird says, adding that MiFID II has shone "a light" on the fact that "some managers had great performances but the consistency wasn't there." (jessica.fleetham@wsj.com)

1210 ET - Eurozone periphery government bond yield spreads don't face any particular risks on a three-month horizon after the Italian elections. "Given the post-Italian election stalemate, we see little risks to spreads," BNP Paribas says. It holds eurozone periphery bonds as "marginal underweight" on a three-month horizon. On a 12-month horizon, however, it has "underweight" on eurozone periphery as it expects ECB tapering to impact spreads as markets price in credit risks. BNP Paribas also believes that lack of reform will be an issue on a longer horizon as growth slows. (emese.bartha@wsj.com; @EmeseBartha)

1159 ET - BNP Paribas holds U.K. gilts at marginal underweight on a three-month horizon and underweight on a 12-month horizon. It says that in the near term, global rates rises and progress on Brexit are set to weaken gilts--driving yields up. On the longer horizon, meanwhile, global tightening and rising domestic price pressures indicate weaker bond prices, as expectations of a Bank of England rate hike increase, BNP Paribas says. (emese.bartha@wsj.com; @EmeseBartha)

1210 ET - The international context, with U.S. President Donald Trump threatening with import tariffs and Russia allegedly poisoning a former spy living in London, "really highlights the need for the U.K. to strike a good Brexit deal," says Audrey Childe-Freeman, chief strategist at FX Knowledge. The U.K. "looks increasingly isolated," she says. Monday's announcement that the U.K. has agreed on a two-year Brexit transition deal with the EU "was symbolic," Ms. Childe-Freeman says, pointing to the fact that there is a smaller chance of a hard Brexit. But the Irish border issue remains unresolved and any negative Brexit news may dampen investors' willingness to buy sterling, she says. (olga.cotaga@wsj.com; @OlgaCotaga)

1158 ET - Retailers face tough times as cost pressure builds, say analysts after several retailers reported downbeat figures and financing issues on Wednesday. Kingfisher forecast an uncertain U.K. outlook, Moss Bros warned on full-year profit, Mothercare is seeking extra funding and Carpetright received a loan to cover short-term financial needs. Meanwhile, wages rose at their fastest since late 2016, though still lag inflation. The British Retail Consortium noted that overall retail sales haven't kept pace with costs such as business rates and wages."While things seem to be looking up for UK workers, the same cannot be said of the U.K. high street," says IG's Chris Beauchamp. "The retail sector faces challenges on multiple fronts." (philip.waller@wsj.com)

1155 ET - Data Wednesday showing a pick-up in U.K. wage growth adds to the case for a Bank of Englandinterest rate increase in May, but further rises are unlikely until a Brexit withdrawal agreement is ratified in 1Q 2019, says Unicredit. The BOE will point to "the pick-up in headline wage growth, very limited spare capacity" and inflation that is still above target despite data Tuesday showing a decline. Still, Unicredit says the BOE has only "a small window" to raise rates because inflation is likely to fall faster than the BOE expects, wage growth will be "moderate" and difficult negotations on Brexit lie ahead. Unicredit expects a May rate rise but warns "it could be a mistake." (jessica.fleetham@wsj.com)

1123 ET - Private investors are losing confidence in the U.K. stock market and economy as the country plans to leave the EU, according to data from Hargreaves Lansdown. The HL Investor Confidence Index,which measures the confidence of retail investors in the U.K. stock market in the coming three years, fell 10% to a reading of 66 in March from 73 in February. That compares to an average in the last 12 months of 75 and a long-term average of 101. U.K. economic confidence lags further, with the HL U.K. Economic Confidence Index falling to 60 from 69. In contrast, confidence in Asia Pacific, global emerging markets and Japan is riding high. "Investors are very much in the Eeyore camp when it comes to the U.K.," says HL Senior Analyst Laith Khalaf. (philip.waller@wsj.com)

1120 ET - A rate increase by the Bank of England in May is more likely than before following U.K. inflation data on Tuesday and labor data on Wednesday. The combination of upside news on nominal average earnings growth and downside news on inflation implies an easing in the squeeze on real pay, says Sam Hill, senior U.K. economist at RBC Capital Markets. "The strong news on employment is enough to firm up the likelihood of a May hike," Hill says. He adds, however, that it might be a stretch at this stage to think that this justifies a significant repricing of interest rate expectations further into the future. (emese.bartha@wsj.com; @EmeseBartha)

1102 ET - First State Investments is avoiding U.S. high yield and investment grade corporate credit given already rich valuations, says Andrew Harman, portfolio manager of First State Diversified Growth Funds. "We expect the gradual unwind of QE and removal of liquidity from the system to put upward pressure on corporate credit spreads; especially short maturity," he says. A rate rise at Wednesday's U.S. Federal Reserve board meeting is "almost certain," and First State will concentrate on the Fed's 'dot plot' forecasts and Fed Chairman Jerome Powell's language around longer-term growth. The 'dot plot' is published after the Fed meetings and shows policymakers' projections for where the Fed Funds rate should be at the end of coming calendar years.(emese.bartha@wsj.com; @EmeseBartha)

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

March 21, 2018 14:15 ET (18:15 GMT)
   COfed : Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Monetary Policy | e212 : Government Borrowing | ecat : Economic News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mntdbt : National Government Debt/Bond Markets | namt : All Market Talk | ndjmt : Dow Jones Market Talk | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | nfiac : Fixed Income Asset Class News | nfxacb : Forex Asset Class Basic News | nfxacp : Forex Asset Class Premium News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e21 : Government Finance | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter   REuk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument DJDN000020180321ee3l002oo  



 HDGlobal Equities Roundup: Market Talk   WC1,378 words   PD21 March 2018   ET19:15   SNDow Jones Institutional News   SCDJDN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright © 2018, Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 
   LPThe latest Market Talks covering Equities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

1415 ET - Government bond prices fell after the Federal Reserve raised short-term interest rates, as expected, but signaled it could accelerate its pace of interest-rate increases in the coming years in an effort to keep the economy from overheating. The yield on the benchmark 10-year US Treasury note was recently at 2.916%, compared with around 2.896% before the Fed's decision and 2.881% Tuesday. Yields are on track for their fourth advance in five sessions. (akane.otani@wsj.com; @akaneotani)
   TD1404 ET - The Fed's interest rate forecasts show that the differences between its most dovish and hawkish wings may be widening. The outlook shows that one unnamed official believes the Fed should push the funds rate to nearly 5% by 2020, while one other policymaker wants the rate target over 4% by then. Those aren't historically strange numbers, but they seem quite high given officials' current views on the level of natural interest rates. Meanwhile, another Fed official, presumably St Louis Fed leader James Bullard, still thinks the current target rate should hold indefinitely, while one other official wants only modest tightening in 2019. When it comes to this debate, recent years have been pretty tough on the hawks, given that inflation has failed to flare in the way they've warned. (michael.derby@wsj.com)

1402 ET - The Fed's Summary of Economic Projections show a notable shift in policymakers' expectations, and that is that officials are now looking to slightly overshoot their 2% inflation target in coming years. This outlook should help cement the view the target is symmetric and not a ceiling. It also affirms comments from key officials that going slightly above the inflation goal is not problematic so long as it's not enduring. Whether this is a prelude to a broader debate over price level targeting, which calls for inflation overshoots to offset past shortfalls, is not clear, however. (michael.derby@wsj.com)

1352 ET - United Airlines CEO Oscar Munoz straight out the gate with an apology for recent missteps, including the now-notorious death of a passenger's dog on a flight to New York. "We got it wrong last week," Munoz says at an industry event in Chicago. "It should have never, ever happened." While calls on social media for a United boycott have petered out, the airline's expansion plans continue to unnerve investors, with Southwest the latest apparent victim as its 1Q revenue softened from prior expectations. "It is not testosterone," says Munoz. "It's very clear, customer-orientated growth." (doug.cameron@wsj.com; dougcameron)

1309 ET - Starbucks said it has achieved pay equity among women and men and employees of all races in the US and is now committing to achieve pay equity for employees performing similar work in all of its company-operated markets globally. Workers' rights advocates have long been pushing companies to close the pay gap between men and women and between white employees and people of different racial backgrounds. (julie.jargon@wsj.com)

1240 ET - The FTSE 100 Index falls 0.3%, or 22.73 points to 7038.54 as retailers and sterling drag down the index, though losses are limited as rising crude prices prop up oil majors. The pound gains 0.5% against the weakening dollar to $1.4065. A string of broadly downbeat updates from retailers hits sentiment, led by Kingfisher PLC, down more than 10% after reporting a 4Q slowdown and an uncertain 2018 outlook. Oil prices have been rising on expectations the US could re-impose economic sanctions on Iran, frustrating its oil output. BP PLC gains 1.8% and Royal Dutch Shell's 'B' stock lifts 1.5%. (philip.waller@wsj.com)

1228 ET - European shares fall 0.14%, or 0.5 points to 375.06 as the dollar falls against the euro and sterling on nervousness about the timing of U.S. interest rate hikes in 2018. "A growing number of traders are now talking about the possibility of four rate hikes this year," says David Madden at CMC Markets. Germany's Dax falls 0.01% and France's CAC-40 drops 0.3%. Kingfisher PLC is the biggest faller in the Stoxx Europe 600, down 10.5% after reporting a fourth-quarter slowdown in its U.K. business and an uncertain outlook. Belgian postal operator Bpost SA ticks up 3.8% after a reported upgrade to buy from hold by Mainfirst Bank AG. (philip.waller@wsj.com)

1219 ET - In the wake of a closely-watched meeting between Donald Trump and Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, oil prices have been rising on expectations the U.S. could re-impose economic sanctions on Iran, frustrating its oil output. But the market's "bullish response to this news, however, is probably as much of a technical reaction as anything else," Ole Hansen, head of commodity strategy at Saxo Bank, wrote in a note Wednesday. He suggested a reduction in Iranian oil production or exports would likely only incentivize participants in the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries' output cutting deal-particularly Saudi Arabia and Russia--to ramp up production. "The biggest short-term risk to supply remains Venezuela, where production has fallen to a multi-decade low," Mr. Hansen added. (christopher.alessi@wsj.com)

1220 ET - Publicis has the potential to deliver a stronger-than-expected organic growth in 2018, as U.S. corporate tax reform could provide an unexpected benefit to client budgets, J.P. Morgan Cazenove says. The broker says the macro environment continues to support healthy spending in advertising. Still, JPM Cazenove says there have been spending cuts in key sectors, including fast-moving consumer goods, which could weigh on growth for the near term. It also points out that agencies are trading at sizable discounts to market, but that a rerating would require a steady improvement in organic growth. (marc.navarro@dowjones.com)

1210 ET - The international context, with U.S. President Donald Trump threatening with import tariffs and Russia allegedly poisoning a former spy living in London, "really highlights the need for the U.K. to strike a good Brexit deal," says Audrey Childe-Freeman, chief strategist at FX Knowledge. The U.K. "looks increasingly isolated," she says. Monday's announcement that the U.K. has agreed on a two-year Brexit transition deal with the EU "was symbolic," Ms. Childe-Freeman says, pointing to the fact that there is a smaller chance of a hard Brexit. But the Irish border issue remains unresolved and any negative Brexit news may dampen investors' willingness to buy sterling, she says. (olga.cotaga@wsj.com; @OlgaCotaga)

1158 ET - Retailers face tough times as cost pressure builds, say analysts after several retailers reported downbeat figures and financing issues on Wednesday. Kingfisher forecast an uncertain U.K. outlook, Moss Bros warned on full-year profit, Mothercare is seeking extra funding and Carpetright received a loan to cover short-term financial needs. Meanwhile, wages rose at their fastest since late 2016, though still lag inflation. The British Retail Consortium noted that overall retail sales haven't kept pace with costs such as business rates and wages."While things seem to be looking up for UK workers, the same cannot be said of the U.K. high street," says IG's Chris Beauchamp. "The retail sector faces challenges on multiple fronts." (philip.waller@wsj.com)

1145 ET - Leoni's 2018 and mid-term outlooks are "slightly soft" on EBIT, says Deutsche Bank, and the brokerage expects consensus downgrades to come through on the back of this. However, Deutsche Bank upgrades its recommendation for Leoni to hold from sell because of the lack of negative catalysts ahead and a new CEO joining in about six months time. Deutsche Bank says Leoni's organic revenue growth was strong in the fourth quarter, driven by good performances by both the company's divisions. Leoni shares trade down 1.6% at EUR56.30. (anthony.shevlin@dowjones.com)

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

March 21, 2018 14:15 ET (18:15 GMT)
   COfed : Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mntdbt : National Government Debt/Bond Markets | namt : All Market Talk | ndjmt : Dow Jones Market Talk | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | nfiac : Fixed Income Asset Class News | nfxacb : Forex Asset Class Basic News | nfxacp : Forex Asset Class Premium News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Monetary Policy | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | uk : United Kingdom | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument DJDN000020180321ee3l002m8  



 HDTreasury Yields Rise As Fed Could Speed Up Rate Hikes -- Market Talk   WC113 words   PD21 March 2018   ET19:15   SNDow Jones Institutional News   SCDJDN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright © 2018, Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 
   LP1415 ET - Government bond prices fell after the Federal Reserve raised short-term interest rates, as expected, but signaled it could accelerate its pace of interest-rate increases in the coming years in an effort to keep the economy from overheating. The yield on the benchmark 10-year US Treasury note was recently at 2.916%, compared with around 2.896% before the Fed's decision and 2.881% Tuesday. Yields are on track for their fourth advance in five sessions. (akane.otani@wsj.com; @akaneotani)

(END) Dow Jones Newswires
   TDMarch 21, 2018 14:15 ET (18:15 GMT)
   COfed : Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | e212 : Government Borrowing | ecat : Economic News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mntdbt : National Government Debt/Bond Markets | namt : All Market Talk | ndjmt : Dow Jones Market Talk | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | nfiac : Fixed Income Asset Class News | nfxacb : Forex Asset Class Basic News | nfxacp : Forex Asset Class Premium News | e12 : Monetary Policy | e21 : Government Finance | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument DJDN000020180321ee3l002m7  



 HDUS Fed raises key  interest rate  amid stronger growth outlook   WC118 words   PD21 March 2018   ET19:08   SNAgence France Presse   SCAFPR   LAEnglish   CYCopyright Agence France-Presse, 2018 All reproduction and presentation rights reserved. 
   LPThe Federal Reserve on Wednesday raised the key lending rate for the first time this year, citing a stronger outlook for economic growth, and hinted at a slightly more aggressive pace for hikes both this year and in 2019.

Newly-installed Fed Chairman Jerome Powell presided over his first meeting which raised the federal funds rate to 1.5-1.75 percent.
   TDIn its quarterly forecasts, Fed officials project the benchmark interest rate will end this year at 2.1 percent after two more hikes, unchanged from the December forecast, but will rise to 2.9 percent at the close of 2019, signalling three possible hikes.

hs/sst
   COfed : Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | effund : Interbank Rate | e12 : Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPDUS | economy | bank | rate | hike   PUBAgence France-Presse   ANDocument AFPR000020180321ee3l00dfe  



 HD* Federal Reserve  Changes Fed Funds Range to 1.50% to 1.75%   WC1,316 words   PD21 March 2018   ET19:00   SNDow Jones Institutional News   SCDJDN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright © 2018, Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 
   LP21 Mar 2018 14:00 ET *Federal Reserve Changes Fed Funds Range to 1.50% to 1.75%

21 Mar 2018 14:00 ET *Fed Raises Rates, Sees Stronger Economic Outlook
   TD21 Mar 2018 14:00 ET *Fed: Labor Market Has Continued To Strengthen

21 Mar 2018 14:00 ET *Fed: Economic Activity Rising At Moderate Rate

21 Mar 2018 14:00 ET *Fed: Job Gains Strong In Recent Months; Unemployment Has Stayed Low

21 Mar 2018 14:00 ET *Fed: Household Spending and Business Investment Moderated Since Fourth Quarter

21 Mar 2018 14:00 ET *Fed: Market-Based Inflation Compensation Measures Have Increased But Remain Low

21 Mar 2018 14:00 ET *Fed: Survey-Based Inflation Expectations Measures Little Changed

21 Mar 2018 14:00 ET *Fed: Inflation Expected To Move Up 'In Coming Months'

21 Mar 2018 14:00 ET *Fed: Inflation Expected To Stabilize At 2% 'Over The Medium Term'

21 Mar 2018 14:00 ET *Fed: Risks To Economy 'Roughly Balanced'

21 Mar 2018 14:00 ET *Fed: Expects Moderate Economic Expansion 'In The Medium Term;' Continued Labor Market Strength

21 Mar 2018 14:00 ET *Fed Raises Discount Rate 0.25-Pt to 2.25%

21 Mar 2018 14:00 ET *FOMC: Voted 8-0 For Fed Funds Rate Action

21 Mar 2018 14:00 ET  Fed Raises Rates and Signals Faster Path Next Year

By Nick Timiraos

WASHINGTON-The Federal Reserve said it would raise short-term interest rates a quarter-percentage point and signaled it could lift them at a slightly more aggressive pace in coming years to keep the strengthening economy on an even keel.

Fed officials said they would increase their benchmark federal-funds rate to a range between 1.5% and 1.75% and penciled in a total of three rate increases for this year.

But more officials think they will need to raise interest rates at least four times this year if the economy performs in line with their expectations. Some seven of 15 participants now expect at least four rate increases this year, an increase from four of 16 participants at the December meeting.

Most Fed officials also expect the Fed would need to raise rates at least another three times next year. At the December meeting, officials projected around two increases would be needed in 2019.

Officials also penciled in two rate increases in 2020, which would leave them in a range between 3.25% and 3.5%.

"The economic outlook has strengthened in recent months," the Fed's rate-setting committee said in its postmeeting statement.

The vote to raise interest rates at the meeting, the first led by Fed Chairman Jerome Powell, was unanimous, with all eight participants in favor of the rate increase.

The rate increase approved Wednesday was widely expected. Traders in futures markets already anticipated the Fed would raise rates a total of three times this year, and before the two-day meeting ended Wednesday, investors placed a roughly 40% probability on at least four interest rate increases this year, according to CME Group.

Officials marked up slightly the estimate of interest rates they expect to prevail over the long run, to a range between 2.75% and 3%. Because they now expect a slightly more aggressive path of rate increases in the coming years, this means more officials now anticipate they will need to tap harder on the brakes to cool down the economy after next year.

Officials release their economic projections every quarter. The new figures released Wednesday show they now expect inflation to rise above their 2% target next year and in 2020. Inflation has remained below that target for most of the last six years.

After a surprising deceleration last year that defied the Fed's forecasts, inflation in recent months has firmed. Consumer prices rose 1.7% in January from a year earlier, according to the central bank's preferred inflation gauge. So-called core prices, which exclude volatile food and energy categories, rose 1.5%.

Fed officials now see core inflation rising to 2.1% next year, up from an earlier projection of 2%, and they see it staying at 2.1% in 2020.

An open question for Mr. Powell is how the Fed would respond to inflation if it rises above the 2% target. Officials have said their target is symmetric, meaning they are as willing to tolerate periods of inflation slightly below the target as they are periods when it rises slightly above the target.

But because inflation has run below the Fed's target since they formally adopted it in 2012, markets don't have a good read on how policy makers would chart interest rate policy when inflation is above the target.

Officials also revised up their estimates of economic growth this year and next year, likely reflecting an increase in federal spending Congress approved last month. Officials in December revised their growth projections higher because Congress was nearing completion of a bill to cut taxes by $1.5 trillion over a decade.

They now see the economy growing by 2.7% this year and 2.4% in 2019, versus earlier projections of 2.5% and 2.1%, respectively. Their forecasts beyond that-2% growth in 2020 and 1.8% growth over the long run-didn't change.

Because officials see the economy growing significantly faster than the level they expect will prevail over the long run, the forecasts imply officials see rising pressure on the economy's productive resources, which could complicate their rate decisions.

The big question heading into their two-day meeting was how much Fed officials expected to lift rates in coming years, particularly after lawmakers approved a more generous federal funding bill in addition to cuts in corporate and individual tax rates at the end of last year.

In February, Congress approved a $300 billion spending bill that could add around 0.4 percentage point to gross domestic product this year and next, on top of last year's tax cuts that could add a similar boost to output over the same period.

Wall Street economists expect the measures will push unemployment down to the low 3% range next year. U.S. joblessness hasn't been that at that level since the Korean War, and no one is quite sure what that could do to inflation or financial stability.

Fed officials now project the unemployment rate, which has held at 4.1% since October, will fall to 3.8% this year, down from 3.9% in their December projection. They see it falling to 3.6% in 2019 and 2020, versus earlier projections of 3.9% and 4%, respectively.

That would leave unemployment well below the level they see prevailing over the long run. They marked down that forecast a touch, to 4.5% from 4.6% in December. The revision indicates officials believe there might be a little more labor slack than previously estimated.

Since officials last met at the end of January, glimmers of rising wages jolted financial markets, illustrating how investors' anticipation of stronger price pressures and a shift in the Fed's rate path might usher in more volatility in stock markets.

The Fed raised interest rates three times last year and began allowing their large bond portfolio to slowly shrink.

Mr. Powell, in recent congressional testimony, indicated he had turned more bullish on the economy since the start of the year.

"We've seen continuing strength in the labor market. We've seen some data that will, in my case, add some confidence to my view that inflation is moving up to target," he said. "We've also seen continued strength around the globe, and we've seen fiscal policy become more stimulative."

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

March 21, 2018 14:00 ET (18:00 GMT)
   COfed : Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | effund : Interbank Rate | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m131 : Money Markets | m14 : Commodity Markets | m141 : Agricultural Commodity Markets | ncmac : Commodities Asset Class News | nenac : Energy Asset Class News | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | nfiac : Fixed Income Asset Class News | nfxacb : Forex Asset Class Basic News | nfxacp : Forex Asset Class Premium News | nhotbn : Hot Business News | ntesi : Essential Stock Market Information | ntop : Top Wire News | nttwn : Today's Top Wire News | m13 : Money/Currency Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | ndj : Dow Jones Top Stories | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | redit : Selection of Top Stories/Trends/Analysis   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument DJDN000020180321ee3l002o3  



 HDFOMC Raises Fed Funds Rate, Sticks With 3 Hikes In 2018 -- MarketWatch   WC185 words   PD21 March 2018   ET19:00   SNDow Jones Institutional News   SCDJDN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright © 2018, Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 
   LPThe Federal Reserve on Wednesday lifted a key short-term U.S. interest rate and stuck to its prior forecast of three rate hikes in 2018, deciding for now to wait until next year to take a more aggressive approach. The central bank's policy-making arm lifted the fed funds rate to a range of 1.5% to 1.75% and indicated it's still on track to boost rates three times this year. Yet the Fed projected another three rate hikes in 2019 instead of the previous two. By the end of 2019, the Fed expects its benchmark rate to hit 2.9% vs. a prior 2.7%. While the Fed predicts the economy will grow even faster in the next two years than it previously estimated, the bank left its PCE inflation forecasts unchanged at 1.9% in 2018 and 2% in 2019. The vote was unanimous.

-Jeffry Bartash 
   TD
 For more from MarketWatch: http://www.marketwatch.com/newsviewer

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

March 21, 2018 14:00 ET (18:00 GMT)
   COfed : Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services   NSe12 : Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | effund : Interbank Rate | m131 : Money Markets | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | nfiac : Fixed Income Asset Class News | nfxacb : Forex Asset Class Basic News | nfxacp : Forex Asset Class Premium News | m13 : Money/Currency Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument DJDN000020180321ee3l002o7  



 HD Federal Reserve  boosts key  interest rate  by quarter-point and sticks with projection of 3 hikes this year   WC36 words   PD21 March 2018   ET19:00   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2018.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved. 
   LPWASHINGTON (AP) — Federal Reserve boosts key interest rate by quarter-point and sticks with projection of 3 hikes this year.
   COfed : Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCf   IPDUS | APNewsAlert | BC-US--APNewsAlert | National | Business | General news | Central bank interest rates | Monetary policy | Economic policy | Economy | Government business and finance | Government and politics | Government policy | Central banking | Banking and credit | Financial services | Spot Development | F Level Ds (9----) | AP Business News (F Wire)   PUBThe Associated Press   ANDocument APRS000020180321ee3l00hu2  



 SEEconomy   HDFed Set to Raise Rates, Issue New Economic Projections; Fed officials' forecasts could reflect recent stimulative fiscal policy moves   BYBy Nick Timiraos    WC981 words   PD21 March 2018   ET10:30   SNWSJ Pro Central Banking   SCRSTPROCB   LAEnglish   CYCopyright © 2018, Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 
   LPThe Federal Reserve is likely to raise short-term interest rates by a quarter percentage point after its two-day policy meeting concludes Wednesday, the sixth such move since late 2015.

The biggest questions will be answered when officials release new projections for unemployment, inflation, economic growth and interest rates in the years ahead, and when Fed Chairman Jerome Powell holds a press conference.
   TDThe central bank releases its statement and the forecasts at 2 p.m. EDT, and Mr. Powell will take questions at 2:30 p.m. Here's what to watch:

How Fiscal Policy Changes the Forecast

Since officials' December projections, Congress passed two major tax and spending bills that are likely to spur faster economic growth this year.

The $1.5 trillion tax cut was largely in the works when Fed officials met in December, but it ended up being slightly larger and with more of the boost coming in the first few years than they anticipated. Then Congress agreed in February to a $300 billion, two-year federal funding increase.

Watch Fed officials' new projections to see how they expect the resulting effects on spending and investment to raise their expectations for growth while pushing down their estimates of how low unemployment will fall.

The Dot Plot

Officials will show how much they expect to raise interest rates through their so-called dot plot. The December version showed a median projection of three rate increases this year and two next year.

Officials' recent comments indicate some of them now project more rate moves through 2019 than they did in December, in part because of the fiscal stimulus added during a period of historically low unemployment.

Markets tend to focus on the median projection as the Fed's primary signal. With 15 participants at this meeting, if at least eight of them foresee four or more rate increases this year, the median would move to four. But the chart could show upward drift in the projections without moving the median. Follow the movement in the average projection, as well as the median, to gauge the degree of shifting intent.

The End Point

Fed officials have long said they aren't going to raise rates this time as much as they did in previous series of rate increases. That means at the end of this process, when their benchmark federal-funds rate is at a point that neither stimulates nor curbs growth, it will be lower than in the past. In December, they anticipated lifting the rate to 3.1% in 2020 at its highest point, and letting it rest at 2.8% over the long term. Watch the projections to see if the recent fiscal boost nudges those levels slightly higher.

The Statement

Watch to see if Mr. Powell, in his first meeting as Fed chairman, freshens up the postmeeting policy statement by getting rid of language that could soon feel out of date.

For example, the statement has described monetary policy as "accommodative" because short-term rates are still low enough to spur economic activity. If the Fed keeps raising rates, it eventually won't be able to refer to its policy stance that way.

The Fed isn't likely to change the language in the statement around the so-called balance of risks to the economic outlook. It has said for several meetings that the risks are "roughly balanced," meaning the economy is as likely to perform better than forecast as perform worse. But Mr. Powell at his press conference could offer additional hints about whether officials now see the balance shifting at the margins so they see the economy as more likely to outperform than underperform.

Overheating

Even if the statement says the risks remain balanced, Mr. Powell could elaborate on his thinking during the press conference. He said in his recent congressional testimony the Fed needs to strike a balance between two goals. On one hand, it wants low interest rates to push inflation up to its 2% target—a level they believe consistent with healthy demand. On the other, it doesn't want to hold rates too low for too long and cause the economy to overheat, sending inflation too high or fueling dangerous asset bubbles.

Overheating is a relatively new watchword for the Fed, after years of sluggish growth and weak inflation. Pay attention to how Mr. Powell describes this risk at his press conference, which should calibrate market expectations about how the central bank is likely to react to rising inflation and strong economic data in the months ahead.

From Janet to Jay

Mr. Powell, who goes by Jay, received relatively high marks from economists and other Fed watchers for his first congressional testimony a few weeks ago. His press conference Wednesday, his first as Fed chief, will give markets another opportunity to gauge not only what Mr. Powell is thinking about policy, but how he is communicating it to the broader public.

Look to see how he navigates politically sensitive questions, such as judging the potential impact of and monetary policy response to President Donald Trump's tariffs.

Write to Nick Timiraos at nick.timiraos@wsj.com

Related

* \b Federal Reserve Interest-Rate\b0  Decision—Live Analysis

* Global Stocks Rebound Ahead of Fed Decision

* Consumer Borrowing Costs Edge Higher as Fed Keeps Raising Rates

* The Outlook: Fed's Thinking on Future Rate Increases Will Come Into Focus This Week

* Streetwise: Confused? You Should Be, and the Fed Too

* Higher Deposit Rates May Finally Be Coming to Your Bank Account

Previously

* New York Fed Director Helping to Oversee Leadership Search Steps Down (March 20)

* Powell Bullish on Economy, but Sees No Signs of Overheating (March 1)

* Fed Raises Rates, Sticks to Forecast for 2018 Increases (Dec. 13, 2017)
   COfed : Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System   INibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Monetary Policy | e211 : Government Budget/Taxation | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | e21 : Government Finance   REusa : United States | usdc : Washington DC | namz : North America | uss : Southern U.S.   IPCG/FED | N/CBK | N/CMR | N/DJCS | N/DJN | N/ECO | N/EMP | N/GENI | N/IEN | N/NRG | N/TAX | N/WER | P/HDL | R/DC | R/US   IPDFED | FED DECISION | FED MARCH MEETING | FED MEETING | FED PREVIEW | FED RATES | FOMC | FOMC MARCH MEETING | FOMC MEETING | JAY POWELL | POWELL | Donald Trump | Jerome Powell | ALERTABLE | PRO | SYND | WSJ-PRO-CB | WSJ-PRO-WSJ.com | Central Banks | WSJ.com   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument RSTPROCB20180321ee3l0005l  



 HDU.S. bond market signals inflation on slow simmer   WC705 words   PD21 March 2018   ET16:57   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2018 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved. 
   LPNEW YORK, March 21 (Reuters) - The U.S. bond market shows investors are confident that inflation has picked up from last year's low levels, but they are not so sure it will head much higher from here.

The muted outlook comes as Federal Reserve officials at a two-day policy meeting that began on Tuesday are likely discussing whether they should stick with their path on raising key short-term interest rates or quicken the pace of rate hikes as the U.S. economy approaches full employment.
   TD"If you take a 30,000-feet view, near-term inflation is recovering, but with long-term inflation, the market is not buying it will pick up much," said Boris Rjavinski, senior rate strategist at Wells Fargo Securities in New York.

Yield spreads between regular Treasuries and Treasury Inflation Protected Securities (TIPS), also known as inflation breakeven rates, on Wednesday were running at 2.03 percentage points to 2.10 percentage points across maturities, according to Tradeweb.

Earlier this month, the five-year, 10-year and 30-year TIPS breakeven rates hit 2.15 percent, 2.13 percent and 2.13 percent, respectively, their highest levels since December 2015.

This inversion of breakeven rates, where short-dated rates are higher than longer-dated ones, "reflects an acceleration of inflation expectations in the short term while overall expectations continue to rise," according to Tradeweb.

TIPS breakeven rates fell sharply in the first half of 2017 on a string of disappointing inflation readings, but recovered in the second half as inflation numbers improved and the passage of tax overhaul in Washington seemed likely.

FLATTENING YIELD CURVE

The slim difference in TIPS breakeven rates is just one market indicator that reflect investors' tame outlook on inflation despite the tax code overhaul in December and a two-year budget agreement in February.

The narrowing of short-dated and long-end bond spreads, which are hovering at the tightest levels in a decade, also support notion of investors' muted inflation outlook.

U.S. consumers seem to agree with investors' assessment that inflation remains a distant threat.

University of Michigan data on Friday showed consumers' inflation outlook for a year from now rose to 2.9 percent in early March from 2.7 percent in February, but that their five-year view was unchanged at 2.5 percent.

UNCERTAIN INFLATION OUTLOOK

The two recent developments from Washington are expected to boost business and consumer spending and ratchet up federal borrowing, which would spur inflation.

Those developments, however, have been offset by views of the impact of U.S. President Donald Trump's efforts on imposing tariffs. They have stoked fears of a trade war that could increase costs for domestic consumers but hurt U.S. exports and weigh on long-term economic growth.

"It's made people more pessimistic in the long run," said Aaron Kohli, interest rate strategist at BMO Capital Markets in New York.

Several Fed policymakers and economists argue that with underlying inflation measures still short of the Fed's 2 percent goal, there is no urgency for the U.S. central bank to boost the pace of rate hikes.

Back in December, the average expectation among Fed officials was for three rate increases for 2018.

Inflation, while showing a modest pickup in recent months, is far from flaring up.

The Labor Department said a week ago its consumer price index rose 0.2 percent last month after jumping 0.5 percent in January. In the 12 months through February, the CPI rose 2.2 percent, up from 2.1 percent in January as the flat reading from last year dropped from the calculation.

The annual increase on the core rate on personal consumption expenditure, the Fed's preferred inflation gauge, was unchanged at 1.5 percent in January which continued to run below 2 percent since May 2012.

"There is some progress no question but they will counter balance it because they haven't seen a sustained recovery to the 2 percent," Well Fargo's Rjavinski said of uptick in inflation so far this year.

(Reporting by Richard Leong; Editing by Meredith Mazzilli) 
   RFReleased: 2018-3-21T16:57:46.000Z   COfed : Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | e1103 : Inflation/Prices | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | usny : New York State | namz : North America | use : Northeast U.S.   IPCSERVICE:PSC | SERVICE:D | SERVICE:E | SERVICE:DNP | SERVICE:BNX | SERVICE:UCDPTEST | SERVICE:M | SERVICE:ABN | SERVICE:N | SERVICE:RNP | SERVICE:U | SERVICE:ABX | SERVICE:RBN | SERVICE:FUN | LANG:en | OEC | CEN | DBT | ECO | FED | FUND | GVD | INFL | INT | MCE | PLCY   IPDBusiness | Economy | US | Americas | North America | United States | USA-INFLATION/BONDS (GRAPHIC) | USA | INFLATION | BONDS (GRAPHIC)   PUBThomson Reuters (Markets) LLC   ANDocument LBA0000020180321ee3l00o05  



 HDBank of Korea to Inevitably Follow Fed's Hikes -- Market Talk   WC1,315 words   PD21 March 2018   ET10:38   SNDow Jones Institutional News   SCDJDN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright © 2018, Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 
   LP0938 GMT - The Bank of Korea isn't in a rush to raise interest rates but it will inevitably have to match hikes by the Fed if rate differentials between the two countries widen to a percentage point, says Gov. Lee. At that level, a possible surge in capital outflows from Korea could result, he added. The BoK's policy rate is at 1.5%, versus the current 1.25-1.5% in the US. Another quarter-point increase is anticipated Wednesday, the first of at least 3 that many predict for 2018. Market analysts pencil in 1 or 2 hikes by the BoK this year. (kwanwoo.jun@wsj.com; @kwanwoo)
   TD0917 GMT - The Czech February 2021 bond, the shortest of three bond lines on offer at Wednesday's auction, is likely to meet limited demand, while the two longest bonds mostly seem to attract domestic investors at current yield and asset swap levels, say Dalimil Vyskovsky, analyst at Komercni. The Czech finance ministry reopens February 2021, September 2025 and July 2029 bond, offering maximum CZK4 billion ($193.5 million) in each line. (emese.bartha@wsj.com; @EmeseBartha)

0912 GMT - Sterling falls against the euro before U.K. jobs data at 0930 GMT, the last set of data before Bank of England's Thursday meeting. But Societe Generale says "sterling bulls" will be looking for "supportive employment and wage data to embolden BOE hawks." According to a WSJ poll, data is expected to show U.K. earnings rose 2.6% in the three months to January. The unemployment rate is expected to remain at 4.4%. EUR/GBP last trades up 0.4% at 0.8755. However, SocGen says the short term bias in EUR/GBP "is for downside on optimism of a soft Brexit." GBP/USD rises 0.2% to 1.4025 as the dollar weakens broadly.(olga.cotaga@wsj.com; @OlgaCotaga)

0903 GMT - India's 1Q GDP is seen topping 4Q's 7.2% increase as business confidence and optimism regarding sales growth continues to grow, suggests a survey. World Economics, which compiles the Sales Managers' Index as part of the poll, notes that managers reported monthly sales volumes reversing 2017 weakness stemming from demonetization and GST's rollout. Meanwhile, job additions also reflect a very-buoyant economy. All this as inflation eased, adds World Economics. (anant.kala@wsj.com)

0851 GMT - Scarcity remains a "pressing" issue in core eurozone government bond markets, and is also spreading to other eurozone government bonds, says Commerzbank rates strategist Christoph Rieger. Eurozone bond scarcity has been caused by the European Central Bank's bond purchase program sharply reducing the amount of available bonds. The German Finance Agency will auction EUR3 billion in the 0.50% February 2028 bund on Wednesday. The central bank cannot buy at the auction but is likely to purchase in the secondary market after the auction increases supply on the market, Rieger says. The 10-year bund yield is trading at 0.58%, according to Tradeweb, broadly unchanged from Tuesday. (emese.bartha@wsj.com; @EmeseBartha)

0848 GMT - ING says it will look to buy falls in EUR/USD to 1.22 or below. The U.S. Federal Reserve is expected to raise interest rates later Wednesday, but the market has already priced in the prospect of higher rates. "Even if the Fed upgrades the dot diagram and shows a median of four hikes this year, we don't expect downside to EUR/USD to be material and long lasting." Investors haven't fully priced in monetary policy normalization by the European Central Bank, which "should drive EUR higher this year." EUR/USD is last up 0.4% at 1.2289. "We prefer to fade any dip to/below the 1.22 level," ING says. (olga.cotaga@wsj.com; @OlgaCotaga)

0801 GMT - The dollar steadily slid through Asian trading and the drop has continued at the start of European action as the greenback has reversed some Tuesday's gains, which put the WSJ Dollar index at 3-week highs. ING isn't expecting the Fed's pronouncements to change the greenback's broader direction, adding that even if the dot plot shifts closer to 4 rate hikes for this year it will "only marginally support the dollar." The euro is up 0.3% at $1.2277. (olga.cotaga@wsj.com; @OlgaCotaga)

0753 GMT - Taking a step forward towards implementing one of the world's largest government-funded health-care programs, India's cabinet is expected to give a formal approval to the spending plan later Wednesday, an official tells WSJ. The government plans to spend around INR105 billion ($1.6 billion) the next 2 years on the effort, shouldering as much as $8,000/year in medical expenses for about 500 million people. The program is seen as opening up new business opportunities for insurers, which have been looking to expand their footprints in India. (rajesh.roy@wsj.com)

0745 GMT - The FTSE 100 index is expected to open 7 points higher at 7069, according to London Capital Group, tracking a modest rebound in stocks in the U.S. and Asia. Any rise is likely to be limited, however, due to caution before a Federal Reserve policy decision later, where a rate increase is widely expected. Focus will center on whether the Fed's rate forecasts point to a total of three or four increases this year. U.K. jobs data will also be in focus at 0930 GMT, and wage growth in particular, where a strong reading could increase expectations for a May rate rise by the Bank of England, lift the pound and weigh on stocks. Retailer Kingfisher will be watched after results. (jessica.fleetham@wsj.com)

0741 GMT - An upbeat economic outlook and a slight upward shift in Fed-funds projections by US central bankers won't necessarily change the dollar's outlook but could nudge the market to become buyers of 10-year Treasurys, says Societe Generale's Kit Juckes. He'd be looking to buy the euro around $1.2150 on any dollar strength and says investors in general would likely be looking to do the same regarding declines in emerging markets and risk assets like commodities and stocks. Alternatively, expect a "big, sustained reaction" if the Fed indicates changes in its interest-rate framework. (kenan.machado@wsj.com)

0737 GMT - Slowing Malaysian inflation to start 2018 isn't the start of a new trend, posits Nomura. Inflation rose just 1.4% from a year earlier in February, half of January's rate. The investment bank sees price growth reaccelerating in April as year-over-year comparisons ease. Nevertheless, Nomura doesn't think Malaysia's central bank raising rates again this year as headline inflation should average 3% this year, versus 2017's 3.7%. The government had projected inflation will slow this year to 2.5-3.5%. (yantoultra.ngui@wsj.com; @yantoultra)

0733 GMT - The Canadian dollar has risen in Asian trading, hitting its best levels in about a week versus other currencies. ACLS' Marshall Gittler attributed that to "reports that the US has dropped a demand in the Nafta talks that all vehicles made in Canada (and Mexico) for export to the US contain at least 50% US content." Motor vehicles and parts make up 1/5 of Canadian exports to America, not far behind energy, he notes. "If there starts to be some optimism about Nafta talks, there could be a serious rebound" for the Canadian dollar, Gittler added. Generally up 0.2%, the loonie is 0.4% higher versus the US dollar at C$1.3020. (kenan.machado@wsj.com)

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

March 21, 2018 05:38 ET (09:38 GMT)
   CObnkkor : Bank of Korea | fed : Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Monetary Policy | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | namt : All Market Talk | ndjmt : Dow Jones Market Talk | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | nfiac : Fixed Income Asset Class News | nfxacb : Forex Asset Class Basic News | nfxacp : Forex Asset Class Premium News | nfxmt : Foreign Exchange Market Talk | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter   REskorea : South Korea | uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | easiaz : Eastern Asia | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument DJDN000020180321ee3l000w0  


 HDING Looks to Buy EUR/USD if it Falls To 1.22 or Below -- Market Talk   WC1,368 words   PD21 March 2018   ET09:48   SNDow Jones Institutional News   SCDJDN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright © 2018, Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 
   LP0848 GMT - ING says it will look to buy falls in EUR/USD to 1.22 or below. The U.S. Federal Reserve is expected to raise interest rates later Wednesday, but the market has already priced in the prospect of higher rates. "Even if the Fed upgrades the dot diagram and shows a median of four hikes this year, we don't expect downside to EUR/USD to be material and long lasting." Investors haven't fully priced in monetary policy normalization by the European Central Bank, which "should drive EUR higher this year." EUR/USD is last up 0.4% at 1.2289. "We prefer to fade any dip to/below the 1.22 level," ING says. (olga.cotaga@wsj.com; @OlgaCotaga)
   TD0801 GMT - The dollar steadily slid through Asian trading and the drop has continued at the start of European action as the greenback has reversed some Tuesday's gains, which put the WSJ Dollar index at 3-week highs. ING isn't expecting the Fed's pronouncements to change the greenback's broader direction, adding that even if the dot plot shifts closer to 4 rate hikes for this year it will "only marginally support the dollar." The euro is up 0.3% at $1.2277. (olga.cotaga@wsj.com; @OlgaCotaga)

0753 GMT - Taking a step forward towards implementing one of the world's largest government-funded health-care programs, India's cabinet is expected to give a formal approval to the spending plan later Wednesday, an official tells WSJ. The government plans to spend around INR105 billion ($1.6 billion) the next 2 years on the effort, shouldering as much as $8,000/year in medical expenses for about 500 million people. The program is seen as opening up new business opportunities for insurers, which have been looking to expand their footprints in India. (rajesh.roy@wsj.com)

0745 GMT - The FTSE 100 index is expected to open 7 points higher at 7069, according to London Capital Group, tracking a modest rebound in stocks in the U.S. and Asia. Any rise is likely to be limited, however, due to caution before a Federal Reserve policy decision later, where a rate increase is widely expected. Focus will center on whether the Fed's rate forecasts point to a total of three or four increases this year. U.K. jobs data will also be in focus at 0930 GMT, and wage growth in particular, where a strong reading could increase expectations for a May rate rise by the Bank of England, lift the pound and weigh on stocks. Retailer Kingfisher will be watched after results. (jessica.fleetham@wsj.com)

0741 GMT - An upbeat economic outlook and a slight upward shift in Fed-funds projections by US central bankers won't necessarily change the dollar's outlook but could nudge the market to become buyers of 10-year Treasurys, says Societe Generale's Kit Juckes. He'd be looking to buy the euro around $1.2150 on any dollar strength and says investors in general would likely be looking to do the same regarding declines in emerging markets and risk assets like commodities and stocks. Alternatively, expect a "big, sustained reaction" if the Fed indicates changes in its interest-rate framework. (kenan.machado@wsj.com)

0737 GMT - Slowing Malaysian inflation to start 2018 isn't the start of a new trend, posits Nomura. Inflation rose just 1.4% from a year earlier in February, half of January's rate. The investment bank sees price growth reaccelerating in April as year-over-year comparisons ease. Nevertheless, Nomura doesn't think Malaysia's central bank raising rates again this year as headline inflation should average 3% this year, versus 2017's 3.7%. The government had projected inflation will slow this year to 2.5-3.5%. (yantoultra.ngui@wsj.com; @yantoultra)

0733 GMT - The Canadian dollar has risen in Asian trading, hitting its best levels in about a week versus other currencies. ACLS' Marshall Gittler attributed that to "reports that the US has dropped a demand in the Nafta talks that all vehicles made in Canada (and Mexico) for export to the US contain at least 50% US content." Motor vehicles and parts make up 1/5 of Canadian exports to America, not far behind energy, he notes. "If there starts to be some optimism about Nafta talks, there could be a serious rebound" for the Canadian dollar, Gittler added. Generally up 0.2%, the loonie is 0.4% higher versus the US dollar at C$1.3020. (kenan.machado@wsj.com)

0726 GMT - The 10-year German bund yield is likely to remain capped at 0.60% on Wednesday, without a major trigger ahead of the U.S. FOMC meeting later in the day. "Given a lack of potential triggers in this session's data calendar we do not expect a breakout of this range ahead of tonight's FOMC meeting," say ING rates strategists. Without any major eurozone economic data to be released Wednesday, Germany's EUR3 billion 10-year bund auction looks to be the only meaningful potential driver of yields in the secondary market. The German Finance Agency offers EUR3 billion in the 0.50% February 2028 bund. The 10-year bund yield is trading at 0.58%, according to Tradeweb, broadly unchanged from Tuesday. (emese.bartha@wsj.com; @EmeseBartha)

0719 GMT - It's not just policymakers, but economists in general too, that are confident that India's economy is rebounding post-demonetization and -GST. According to FocusEconomics, which provides consensus forecasts, India's GDP growth is seen accelerating to 7.3% and 7.4% the next 2 FYs, according to the median of 40 estimates it has aggregated. A cyclical recovery has set in, the survey shows, although India's economy is seen still having to navigate choppy waters amid increased market volatility, deteriorating external metrics and a rising likelihood of the central bank shifting to a hawkish monetary policy. Meanwhile, tighter rules for resolving bad loans could delay a recovery in credit growth. (anant.kala@wsj.com)

0715 GMT - After skidding some 4% yesterday in a possible devaluation, further declines loom for the Pakistan rupee, says Saad Hashemy, head of research for Pakistan broker Topline Securities. Tuesday's slide followed a December devaluation which took the rupee from 105/dollar to 111. It fell to 115 yesterday, and Hashemy ultimately sees the dollar getting to PKR140 by June 2020. (kenan.machado@wsj.com)

0617 GMT - Asian credit markets have gotten quieter ahead of the looming FOMC rat hike, with companies preferring to wait to launch new deals and investors seeing no reason to buy right now. At least 18 dollar-bond deals are waiting to be launched in Asia, according to market participants. The include India's JSW Steel, which is looking to raise up to $1 billion from 5- and 10-year bonds. The firm says it has no immediate need for cash but wants to raise the money anyway to lock in lower interest cost and repay debt ahead of future rate hikes. But Thailand's largest independent power producer didn't wait. Ratchaburi Electricity, in a rare visit to the bond market, yesterday sold $300 million of 10-year bonds. It got more than $500 million of orders. (manju.dalal@wsj.com)

0604 GMT - Looking to narrow its huge trade deficit with China, Indian officials will hold a bilateral meeting with top Chinese representatives in New Delhi next week. The meeting holds significance as it comes within months of a standoff between the nations on border-related issues. "We will talk about the possibilities of increasing Indian exports to China and see how we can reduce the trade deficit," said Indian Trade Minister Suresh Prabhu. In the first 7 months of this FY, from April-October, the trade gap was $36.73 billion, according to Indian government data. (rajesh.roy@wsj.com)

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

March 21, 2018 04:48 ET (08:48 GMT)
   COfed : Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System | eurcb : European Central Bank | nn : ING Groep NV | iaand : Stichting ING Aandelen   INi814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services   NSe12 : Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | m132 : Foreign Exchange Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | namt : All Market Talk | ndjmt : Dow Jones Market Talk | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | nfiac : Fixed Income Asset Class News | nfxacb : Forex Asset Class Basic News | nfxacp : Forex Asset Class Premium News | nfxmt : Foreign Exchange Market Talk | ecat : Economic News | m13 : Money/Currency Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | eurz : Europe | namz : North America   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument DJDN000020180321ee3l000pr  

 Three, Four or More? Just How Many Times Will the Fed Raise Rates This Year?
WSJ Blogs, 07:14, 21 March 2018, 657 words, (English)
For some time, many have been focusing on expectations that the Federal Reserve will make its first interest rate increase of 2018 in March.
Document WCWSJB0020180321ee3l0002t

 Page 2 of 159     © 2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.


 

 Page 1     © 2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.

