 


 SEBusiness   HDRockier year expected after Yellen's steady hand   BYROBIN WIGGLESWORTH ; JOE RENNISON    WC826 words   PD15 December 2017   SNFinancial Times   SCFTFT   ED1; Usa   PG20   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All rights reserved. Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the web. 
   LPAnalysis. Capital markets Fed officials, economists and traders disagree on the outlook for rates in 2018

Janet Yellen's swansong press conference and penultimate board meeting underscored why investors have largely lamented the end to her stint as Federal Reserve chair. She has been steady, unflappable, and caused nary a ripple across markets despite raising interest rates five times — including three increases in 2017, significantly more than investors expected at the start of the year.
   TDEven as the central bank has started its balance sheet shrinkage, something many fund managers had argued could spark severe market disruption, the 10-year Treasury note yieldhas remained stable during Ms Yellen's term.

Currently parked around 2.4 per cent, the benchmark lurked near 2.6 per cent when Ms Yellen took up her position in February 2014. Since then the S&P 500 has climbed more than 50 per cent, while the Fed's favoured inflation rate has been steady at about 1.4 per cent.

"She's been really good," says Angel Ubide at Goldman Sachs' investment management division. "She's been very good at communicating, and steering the committee down the middle of the road, and that's good for markets."

The question now is whether this smooth interest rate "normalisation" will continue in 2018 under the incoming chairmanship of Jay Powell. Investors were on Wednesday pleasantly surprised that the Fed did not pencil in more than three interest rate increases next year, in line with their previous projections.

But the US central bank's projections could look markedly different next year. Neel Kashkari of the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis and Charles Evans of the Chicago Fed both voted against Wednesday's rate increase, and most probably represent the two most dovish "dots" on the chart showing Fed policymakers' forecasts of 2018 interest rates. They will next year lose their votes to Loretta Mester of the Cleveland Fed and John Williams of the San Francisco Fed, who are both more on the hawkish side.

Although the "dots" did not move higher, the projections for growth and unemployment were noticeably better, and given the momentum the US economy is now enjoying — even setting aside the batch of tax cuts being passed by the Republicans — some analysts reckon that the Fed will raise interest rates four times in 2018.

That probably entails further upward pressure on the two-year Treasury note yield, which has risen above 1.80 per cent, its highest level since 2008, from 1.25 per cent since September.

The fact that "financial conditions", a measure of how supportive markets are of the economy, have eased in spite of the Fed's rate increases indicates that policymakers are likely to move more aggressively next year, argues Matt Freund, co-chief investment officer at Calamos. "Things are going to become much more restrictive," he says, "much faster than people think."

That is not yet the market's view. The Fed funds futures market indicates that investors only see a 20 per cent chance of even three rises; resolving the disparity could cause turbulence next year, warns Lena Komileva of G+ Economics.

"Unless deflation risk returns, and the economy is nowhere near this danger zone, then the Fed is unlikely to abandon its course of rate hikes," she wrote in a note. "This leaves significant room for a surprise with a potential commensurate impact on market rates and the US dollar as markets re-evaluate the Fed's medium-term normalisation strategy."

Next year is also likely to be an inflection point in global monetary policy.

Central banks have swelled their collective balance sheets by $15tn in the past decade, in addition to cutting interest rates down to multi-century lows. That has been a big tailwind for markets that could begin to reverse next year, with the Fed's cautious balance sheet reduction picking up steam and the European Central Bank expected to end its own quantitative easing programme.

Some analysts and investors reckon the first signs of looming trouble can be seen in the yield curve.

At her press conference Ms Yellen shrugged off the flat yield curve, arguing that it had more to do with higher shortterm interest rates and technical factors such as an eroding "term premium" than the real economy.

Yet Anne Mathias at Vanguard, says the recent flattening is still disconcerting. "This is an indicator that will be extremely important to watch for the Fed and markets next year," she warns.

Treasury market stays well behaved over Yellen's stint as Fed chair Source: Bloomberg 10-year US Treasury yield (%) US yield curve deflates dramatically Difference between 2- and 10-year Treasury yields lowest since 2007 2012 14 15 16 17 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 2007 09 11 13 15 17 -100 0 100 200 300 Yellen takes over chairmanship
   COfed : Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTFT000020171215edcf000a0  



 HDUPDATE 1-Fed's Evans says voted against rate hike over inflation concerns   WC305 words   PD15 December 2017   ET17:16   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2017 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved. 
   LP(Adds further details, background)

WASHINGTON, Dec 15 (Reuters) - Chicago Fed President Charles Evans said on Friday that he had voted against the U.S. Federal Reserve's decision to raise interest rates earlier this week due to worries over tepid inflation.
   TD"I am concerned that persistent factors are holding down inflation, rather than idiosyncratic transitory ones. Namely, the public's inflation expectations appear to me to have drifted down below the (committee's) 2 percent inflation target," Evans said in a statement explaining his dissent.

The U.S. central bank raised interest rates on Wednesday by a quarter of a percentage point in a 7-2 decision but left its interest rate outlook for the coming years unchanged.

Minneapolis Fed's Neel Kashkari also dissented.

The Fed projected that inflation would remain below its target rate for another year. The Fed's preferred measure of inflation has retreated for much of the past year and currently stands at 1.4 percent.

Policymakers have been vexed by the shortfall, but given the strength of U.S. economic growth and low unemployment, decided to proceed with gradual increases in its benchmark lending rate.

Evans, however, said that leaving interest rates unchanged "would have better supported a general pickup in inflation expectations and increased the likelihood that inflation will rise to 2 percent."

Given that policymakers have raised interest rates twice in 2017 already, he said a pause would have given policymakers time to test their theory that the slowdown in inflation is transitory.

"Waiting a while longer before raising rates would have given us a chance to see whether or not that was true," he said.

(Reporting by Lindsay Dunsmuir and Jason Lange; Editing by Bernadette Baum)
   RFReleased: 2017-12-18T16:16:32.000Z   COfed : Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System | frbm : Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis   NSe1103 : Inflation/Prices | e1202 : Interest Rates | gpol : Domestic Politics | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCSERVICE:ZZ | SERVICE:C | SERVICE:D | SERVICE:GRO | SERVICE:E | SERVICE:MTL | SERVICE:SOF | SERVICE:ZD | SERVICE:UCDPTEST | SERVICE:M | SERVICE:O | SERVICE:OIL | SERVICE:U | LANG:en | OEC | OVR | BACT | CEN | ECO | FED | GEN | INFL | INT | MCE | PIA | PLCY | POL | USA | WASH   IPDBusiness | Economy | Politics | US | Americas | Reports | North America | United States | USA-FED/EVANS (UPDATE 1) | USA | FED | EVANS (UPDATE 1)   PUBThomson Reuters (Markets) LLC   ANDocument LBA0000020171215edcf00nm1  



 HDPRECIOUS-Gold heads to first weekly gain in 4 weeks after Fed rate hike   WC515 words   PD15 December 2017   ET20:34   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2017 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved. 
   TD
    * Gold up 0.5 percent this week
    * Dollar, U.S. yields lower after rate hike
    * Low prices spur Asian demand

 (Updates comment, prices; adds byline, NEW YORK dateline)
    By Chris Prentice and Peter Hobson
    NEW YORK/LONDON, Dec 15 (Reuters) - Gold prices clung to
earlier gains and were poised for their first weekly gain in
four weeks on Friday, withstanding pressure from strong equities
markets on continued support from this week's interest rate rise
by the Federal Reserve.
    Spot gold        was up 0.19 percent at $1,255.12 per ounce
by 2:22 p.m. EST (1922 GMT), up 0.6 percent for the week as it
recovered from Monday's five-month low of $1,235.92. The most
active U.S. gold         futures for February delivery settled
up 0.03 percent, at $1,257.50 per ounce. 
    Higher interest rates usually push gold lower because they
raise bond yields, reducing the appeal of non-yielding bullion,
and boost the dollar, making gold more expensive for holders of
other currencies. 
    But markets had priced in Wednesday's rise and the dollar
and bond yields fell after the Fed kept its outlook for three
rate rises next year unchanged and said proposed U.S. tax cuts
would not significantly spur growth.                           
    U.S. inflation remained weak, which Chicago Fed President
Charles Evans said on Friday undermined the case for rate rises.
                         
    The dollar recouped some losses as Republican senators
worked to resolve disagreements on the tax reform. Major stock
indexes hit record highs.                                       
    "The rate hike was baked in, but I think more importantly
there was this slight doubt in people's minds that the Fed might
be more aggressive in 2018. What we got from them this week
tells us that probably isn't the case," Bill O’Neill, partner at
Logic Advisors in Upper Saddle River, New Jersey.
    Also helping was a rise in demand in Asia as buyers took
advantage of low prices.             
    Societe Generale analyst Robin Bhar said gold's bounce would
be short-lived because other asset classes including equities,
industrial metals and even bitcoin appeared to offer better
returns.
    Gold is up around 9 percent this year while global shares
and industrial metals have gained some 20 percent and bitcoin
1,740 percent.                               
    In other metals, palladium         was down 1.19 percent at
$1,020.72, but still up for the week after hitting $1,038 an
ounce on Thursday, the highest since early 2001.
    "The palladium metal supply remains tight and until this is
alleviated we can expect the premium to remain," said Miguel
Perez-Santalla, vice president of Heraeus Precious Metals in New
York.
    Silver        was up 1.01 percent at $16.03 per ounce and
set for its first weekly gain in four weeks.
    Platinum        rose 1.28 percent at $889.75 per ounce,
marginally higher for the week.

 (Additional reporting by Apeksha Nair in Bengaluru; Editing by
Edmund Blair and James Dalgleish)
   RFReleased: 2017-12-15T20:34:12.000Z   COfed : Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System   NSm1421 : Gold Markets | e1202 : Interest Rates | ntab : Tables | e12 : Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m14 : Commodity Markets | m142 : Metals Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mpcsmt : Precious Metals Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | niwe : IWE Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCSERVICE:PTD | SERVICE:ZZ | SERVICE:C | SERVICE:GRO | SERVICE:MTL | SERVICE:DNP | SERVICE:SOF | SERVICE:ZD | SERVICE:BNX | SERVICE:UCDPTEST | SERVICE:ABN | SERVICE:RNP | SERVICE:ABX | SERVICE:FUN | LANG:en | OEC | BACT | COM | GOL | METL | PALL | PGM | PLAT | PREMTL | SLVR | USA   IPDBusiness | Economy | US | TABLE | Americas | Reports | North America | United States | Market Reports | GLOBAL-PRECIOUS/ (UPDATE 5) | GLOBAL | PRECIOUS | (UPDATE 5)   PUBThomson Reuters (Markets) LLC   ANDocument LBA0000020171215edcf00god  



 SEEconomy   HDFed's Evans Says Concerns About Persistently Weak Inflation Behind His Dissent; Chicago Fed chief says holding rates steady this week would have better supported a pickup in inflation expectations   BYBy Harriet Torry    WC395 words   PD15 December 2017   ET17:14   SNWSJ Pro Central Banking   SCRSTPROCB   LAEnglish   CYCopyright © 2017, Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 
   LPFederal Reserve Bank of Chicago President Charles Evans said concerns about inflation were behind his vote against the central bank's rate increase this week, although he described the decision as a close one.

"I am concerned that persistent factors are holding down inflation, rather than idiosyncratic transitory ones," he said, adding that the public's inflation expectations "appear to me to have drifted down below" the Fed's 2% target.
   TDThe central bank's interest-rate-setting Federal Open Market Committee on Wednesday voted 7-2 to increase its benchmark federal-funds rate by a quarter percentage point to a range between 1.25% and 1.5%, the fifth such increase in two years. According to forecasts released after the meeting, officials project inflation will rise to their 2% target only by late 2019. Inflation has undershot the Fed's 2% goal for much of the past five years.

Mr. Evans and Minneapolis Fed President Neel Kashkari cast the dissenting votes at the meeting. Both have cited weak inflation as a reason to hold off on raising rates.

In a statement on his decision to dissent released Friday, Mr. Evans expressed concerns "that too many observers have the impression that our 2% objective is a ceiling that we do not wish inflation to breach." He stressed that the 2% figure is a "symmetric inflation target."

"That is, we would like to see the odds of inflation running modestly below 2 percent equal the odds of it running modestly above over the long run," he said.

Holding rates steady at the two-day meeting ended Wednesday "would have better supported a general pickup in inflation expectations and increased the likelihood that inflation will rise," Mr. Evans said.

Fed Chairwoman Janet Yellen after the meeting said she thinks the factors holding down inflation this year are likely to prove transitory.

"But I have tried to be straightforward in saying that this could end up being something that is more engrained and turns out to be permanent. It's very important to watch it and if necessary, rethink what's determining inflation," she told reporters.

Write to Harriet Torry at harriet.torry@wsj.com
   COfrbch : Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago | fed : Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System   NSe1103 : Inflation/Prices | e1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | eprime : Prime Rate | gcat : Political/General News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators   REchico : Chicago | namz : North America | usa : United States | usc : Midwest U.S. | usdc : Washington DC | usil : Illinois | uss : Southern U.S.   IPCG/FED | N/CBK | N/CMR | N/DJCS | N/DJN | N/ECO | N/EMP | N/GENI | N/IEN | N/NRG | N/PRT | N/WER | R/DC | R/IL | R/NME | R/US | R/USC   IPDCharles Evans | Janet Yellen | Neel Kashkari | PRO | WSJ-PRO-CB | WSJ-PRO-NP | Central Banks | WSJPRO   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument RSTPROCB20171215edcf000ul  



 SEEconomy   HDAs Fed Tightens, Europe Hangs Loose; Region's banks in no rush to follow the Fed in raising rates   BYBy Tom Fairless in Frankfurt and Jason Douglas in London    WC1,078 words   PD14 December 2017   ET14:57   SNWSJ Pro Central Banking   SCRSTPROCB   LAEnglish   CYCopyright © 2017, Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 
   CXCorrections & Amplifications

Norway's central bank expects a first rate increase in the autumn of 2018. An earlier version of this article incorrectly said the first increase would be in the autumn of 2019.
   LPCentral banks in Europe showed continued caution about the region's economic recovery on Thursday, signaling that they are in no rush to follow the Federal Reserve in steadily raising interest rates despite a rare synchronized expansion across the world economy.

The European Central Bank left its interest rates unchanged, even as its new economic projections forecast strong growth for the 19-nation eurozone through 2020.
   TD"The incoming information indicates a strong pace of economic expansion and a significant improvement in the growth outlook," said Mario Draghi, the ECB's president, in a news conference.

The ECB's economists now expect the eurozone's economy will grow by 2.3% in 2018, a big increase from the 1.8% growth projected as recently as September. They continue to expect this year to be the currency area's best since 2007.

However, Mr. Draghi said interest rates would "remain at their present levels for an extended period of time" and confirmed the ECB's plan to continue buying government bonds and other assets until September 2018, but at the reduced monthly rate of €30 billion ($35.5 billion).

In response to that expected announcement, the euro was little changed against the dollar, falling from around $1.184 as Mr. Draghi's news conference began to around $1.181 shortly after, down 0.2% for the day.

The reason for his continued caution is that the pickup in growth has yet to significantly change the outlook for inflation. The ECB's economists raised their inflation forecast for next year, but still see it staying below the target of just under 2% in both 2018 and 2019.

"The news on inflation remains somewhat muted," Mr. Draghi said.

Like the ECB, the central banks of Switzerland and Norway left their key interest rates unchanged, and indicated that a first move to lift them back to levels that were considered normal before the global financial crisis is some way off.

Because much of Switzerland's exports are destined for the eurozone, the SNB's monetary policy is heavily dependent on what the ECB does.

"To be very clear, it's too early to talk about normalization in the case of the Swiss National Bank," said Thomas Jordan, who heads the institution.

But there are signs that some of Europe's central banks are contemplating an earlier start to normalization than previously indicated. Norway's central bank said it now expects a first rate increase in the autumn of 2018, having previously expected to move in 2019.

The Bank of England also left its benchmark interest rate unchanged, although it is ahead of most of its European peers, having last month raised borrowing costs in the U.K. for the first time in a decade.

That is because it faces a unique challenge. Officials fret the country's planned withdrawal from the European Union in early 2019 is holding back investment, and squeezing the economy's capacity to produce goods and services.

The BOE's Monetary Policy Committee said in a statement that it expects to further increase its benchmark rate over the next three years to bring annual inflation, which hit 3.1% in November, back to its 2% target. Future rate rises are expected to be gradual and limited, it said.

The decisions by European central banks are likely to underline a persistent policy divergence between the world's major central banks a decade after the onset of the global financial crisis. While the Fed has been gradually nudging up interest rates for the past two years, the ECB isn't expected to start raising rates until late 2019.

"The stage at which the economic recovery is in the U.S. is more advanced, especially so when we look at the wages behavior," Mr. Draghi said.

That divergence helps to support a European economic recovery that is at an earlier stage than that in the U.S.—not least by holding down European currencies against the dollar and supporting the region's exports.

ECB officials are eager to keep their options open amid ongoing economic risks: While the U.S. economy is expected to receive a boost next year from planned corporate-tax cuts, European policy makers are navigating major elections and Britain's possibly messy departure from the European Union.

The Fed voted Wednesday to raise short-term interest rates for the third time this year, and signaled it would stay on a similar path next year amid a leadership transition. Hours after the Fed's move, the People's Bank of Chinafollowed suit, increasing the rates it charges in open-market operations and on its medium-term lending facility.

On both sides of the Atlantic, policy makers are wrestling with weak inflation, which has yet to rebound strongly despite strengthening economic growth and employment.

Recent data suggest the eurozone's economic recovery continues to strengthen and is reassuringly broad.

A survey of 5,000 manufacturers and service providers released Thursday suggests the eurozone economy ended the year on a strong note, as eurozone factories had their strongest month since the measure began in 1997.

"The eurozone economy is picking up further momentum as the year comes to a close," said Chris Williamson, chief business economist at IHS Markit, the data firm that compiles the surveys.

Europe's caution raises concerns that lingering central-bank stimulus policies could fuel encourage excessive risk-taking by investors or the misallocation of capital to weak firms.

Lena Komileva, chief economist at G+ Economics in London, warns of a "growing risk that this cycle will end in another financial event unless central banks get ahead of the curve."

In a report published last month, the ECB said it sees the potential for large corrections in global asset prices as investors load up on risky investments even as major central banks dial down their postcrisis stimulus policies.

Brian Blackstone in Zurich, Dominic Chopping in Stockholm and Paul Hannon in London contributed to this article.

Write to Tom Fairless at tom.fairless@wsj.com and Jason Douglas at jason.douglas@wsj.com

Related

* Five Questions for the European Central Bank's Policy Meeting

* China's Central Bank Raises Market Rates Hours After Fed Move

* Fed Raises Rates, Sticks to Forecast for 2018 Increases


   COeurcb : European Central Bank | fed : Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System   INi814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services   NSe1101 : Economic Growth | e52 : Euro Zone/Currency | e12 : Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gvbod : Government Bodies | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | ncor : Corrections | ncrx : Corrected Items | nimage : Images | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter   REchina : China | eurz : Europe | switz : Switzerland | uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | weurz : Western Europe | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | dach : DACH Countries | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | eecz : European Union Countries | namz : North America   IPCG/FED | G/IGV | G/SNB | G/UKBK | I/BNK | M/EUR | N/AER | N/CBK | N/CMR | N/DJN | N/ECB | N/ECR | N/EMP | N/EMR | N/EMU | N/GENI | N/ICM | N/IEN | N/PBOC | N/VOT | N/WER | R/CH | R/EU | R/SZ | R/UK | R/US | R/WEU | SNBN.EB   IPDBOE | CENTRAL BANKS | ECB | ECONOMIC FORECASTS | ECONOMIC NEWS | INTEREST RATES | MONETARY POLICY | NORGES BANK | PBC | Komileva, Lena | Mario Draghi | Williamson, Chris | PRO | SYND | WSJ-PRO-CB | WSJ-PRO-WSJ.com | WSJ.com   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument RSTPROCB20171214edce000dx  


 SEEconomy   HDThe Fed Isn't the Tax Cut's Enemy; Officials are open to the possibility that the tax cut will raise the economy's potential growth rate, although it isn't their base case   BYBy Greg Ip    WC900 words   PD14 December 2017   ET11:33   SNWSJ Pro Central Banking   SCRSTPROCB   LAEnglish   CYCopyright © 2017, Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 
   LPWith U.S. unemployment at 4.1% and the economy at full capacity, the conventional wisdom is that this is the wrong time for Republicans to cut taxes by $1.4 trillion over the next decade. The fiscal stimulus will overheat the economy and force the Federal Reserve to slow it down by raising interest rates more aggressively.

That conventional wisdom may be wrong. Fed officials, in the projections released yesterday and in Chairwoman Janet Yellen's remarks, suggest they aren't standing in the way of any boost that the tax cut delivers. Indeed, it may not be entirely unwelcome.
   TDThe reasons are twofold. One is that inflation is still too low, and that completely changes the equation: It suggests overheating is to be welcomed, not resisted. The other is that officials are open to the possibility that the tax cut will raise the economy's potential growth rate, which means faster growth wouldn't necessarily lead to more inflation.

That isn't their base case, which may irritate President Donald Trump. But more important for Mr. Trump is that Ms. Yellen and her likely successor, Fed governor Jerome Powell, aren't yet the party poopers many supply-side tax cut advocates feared.

"My fears have not been realized," Larry Kudlow, an economist and radio host who has informally advised Mr. Trump, said in an interview Wednesday. The real test, he said, is how the Fed reacts if growth tops 3%, as he expects: "We have to wait and see."

Start with the projections. Fed officials now expect growth to average 2.3% from 2017 to 2020, up from 2.1% in September, and unemployment to average 4%, down from 4.2%.

Yet officials foresee virtually no change in inflation or any need to raise rates faster. This seems at odds with the Fed's view of the world, embodied by the "Phillips curve," which predicts inflation to pick up as unemployment drops further below its long-term rate, estimated by the Fed to be around 4.6%.

In her press conference Wednesday, Ms. Yellen explained that officials do expect the tax cut to raise growth and lower unemployment, but "counterbalancing that is that inflation has run lower than you expect. It could take a longer period of a very strong labor market in order to achieve the inflation objective."

Indeed, the Labor Department reported Wednesday that consumer prices, excluding energy and food, rose less than economists expected in November, perpetuating the puzzle of why inflation remains stuck below the Fed's 2% target. At his Senate confirmation hearing last month, Mr. Powell suggested the economy might not be at full employment because so many adult workers have dropped out of the labor force and aren't recorded as unemployed.

In such circumstances the Phillips curve dictates that the Fed slow or even halt the pace of interest-rate increases to get unemployment even lower. But fiscal stimulus can accomplish the same thing, and indeed Fed officials in past years routinely implored fiscal policy makers to share the burden of boosting growth. The latest projections suggest there remains some merit to the argument.

Though perhaps for not much longer. By 2020 Fed officials expect their benchmark federal-funds rate to reach 3.1%, which would be above the 2.8% they expect to prevail in a fully-employed economy growing normally. This is a sign they think the economy could overheat and need the Fed to press the brakes. When it has tried this in the past, the Fed has often overshot and pushed the economy into recession, precisely the outcome Mr. Kudlow and other supply-siders fear.

But three years is a long time, long enough to tell if the tax cut has the supply-side benefits proponents such as Mr. Kudlow claim.

If it does, then in an economy with "disturbingly low productivity growth, that would be welcome and could support faster [gross domestic product] growth, at least for some period, without creating a need to tighten monetary policy to offset that," Ms. Yellen said. In other words, it doesn't matter much what the Fed thinks right now about what the tax cut will accomplish; it will let the data answer that question and adjust interest rates accordingly.

This outlook isn't an endorsement. Ms. Yellen made it clear she didn't agree with Mr. Trump and Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin that the tax cut would pay for itself, and warned it may be "taking what is already a significant [debt] problem and making it worse." If she were running fiscal policy, it isn't what she would choose to do.

While this isn't what Mr. Trump and Republicans in Congress want to hear, Ms. Yellen's monetary actions matter far more than her fiscal words and on that front, they so far have little to fear.

Write to Greg Ip at greg.ip@wsj.com

Related

* Some GOP Senators Seek Late Changes in Tax Bill

* Ryan Rebuts Rumor, Says He Is Staying

More

* Fed Raises Rates, Sticks to Forecast for 2018 Increases

* Europe's Central Banks Still Cautious

* China's Central Bank Raises Market Rates
   COfed : Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System   INi814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services | i81401 : Central Banking   NSe1101 : Economic Growth | e12 : Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | e211 : Government Budget/Taxation | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e21 : Government Finance   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPCG/FED | I/BNK | M/FCL | N/CBK | N/EMP | N/GEN | N/GENI | N/IEN | N/PLT | N/TAX | R/NME | R/US   IPDFED TAX BILL | FISCAL STIMULUS | INFLATION | OVERHEATING | TAX BILL | TAX CUTS | UNEMPLOYMENT | YELLEN GOP | YELLEN REPUBLICANS | Donald Trump | Kudlow, Larry | Mnuchin, Steven | ALERTABLE | PRO | SYND | WSJ-PRO-CB | WSJ-PRO-WSJ.com | Central Banks | WSJ.com   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument RSTPROCB20171214edce000jh  



 SEWorld   HDMexico's Central Bank Raises Rates as Inflation Concerns Mount; Overnight  interest rate  target now stands at 7.25%, the highest since 2009   BYBy Juan Montes    WC618 words   PD14 December 2017   ET21:50   SNWSJ Pro Central Banking   SCRSTPROCB   LAEnglish   CYCopyright © 2017, Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 
   LPMEXICO CITY—The Bank of Mexico raised interest rates by a quarter percentage point Thursday after a six-month pause, as policy makers have grown increasingly worried about high inflation.

The overnight interest rate target now stands at 7.25%—the highest since February 2009.
   TDThe policy meeting marked Alejandro Díaz de León's first as the central bank's governor. He took over two weeks ago facing a tough situation, with high inflation, slowing economic growth, and a weak and volatile peso.

Some analysts said Mr. Díaz de León may have sought to burnish the bank's orthodox credentials at his first meeting as governor.

"The main challenge for the bank's board…is to reinforce the downward path for inflation to the target," the policy statement said. A majority of the bank's four voting members agreed to the move, while one member called for a half-percentage point increase, underscoring the concern inflation is causing for the board.

The peso—the second most traded emerging-market currency with daily average turnover of some $112 billion—appreciated 0.3% just after the policy announcement, briefly hitting 18.97 to the U.S. dollar before moving back above 19.

The rate decision was increasingly expected by markets and analysts in recent weeks as annual inflation came in above expectations in November at 6.6%, more than double the bank's 3% target.

The Bank of Mexico had been expecting inflation to start slowing at the end of the year, but now sees it ending December above the November level.

In its policy statement, the central bank said the outlook for inflation has turned "more complex" and that it will take longer for prices to return to the target. The bank now sees inflation "moderately" above 3% during the next two years.

The rate increase is probably the last in the cycle, said Neil Shearing, the chief emerging markets economist at Capital Economics. "But it's clear that policy makers won't require much persuading to tighten again, particularly if the peso comes under renewed pressure."

The U.S. Federal Reserve's rate increase this week also left Mexico's central bank little maneuvering room. The bank said the peso has been pressured since the third quarter by expectations of Fed rate increases and uncertainty over the renegotiation of the North American Free Trade Agreement with the U.S. and Canada.

Higher borrowing costs mean less money available for consumers, which in turn puts downward pressure on prices. Many observers fear that also will be a drag on an already sluggish Mexican economy that contracted 0.3% during the third quarter after a string of natural disasters hit Mexico.

The growth outlook looks gloomy, the bank indicated, as the often contentious Nafta talks have hit investment "considerably" and are likely behind the slowdown in private consumption in the second half of the year.

Inflation was below the central bank's target until late last year. The uptick this year is mainly explained by the average 20% increase in gasoline prices ordered by the government at the beginning of the year as the country liberalizes energy markets, and peso depreciation that has made imports more expensive.

Until early this month, most analysts expected the Bank of Mexico to stand pat on rates in the near term after the central bank called a pause in a tightening cycle that increased the overnight rate to 7% from 3% between December 2015 and June 2017.

Write to Juan Montes at juan.montes@wsj.com
   NSe12 : Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | e1103 : Inflation/Prices | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators   REmex : Mexico | lamz : Latin America | namz : North America | usa : United States | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies   IPCG/FED | M/USD | N/CMR | N/DJCS | N/DJN | N/EMP | N/GENI | N/IEN | N/NRG | N/WER | R/LTM | R/MX | R/NME | R/US   IPDBANK OF MEXICO | BANK OF MEXICO DECISION | BANK OF MEXICO POLICY | BANK OF MEXICO RATES | BANXICO | MEXICO INFLATION | MEXICO RATES | de León, Alejandro | ALERTABLE | PRO | SYND | WSJ-PRO-CB | WSJ-PRO-WSJ.com | Latin America News | WSJ.com   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument RSTPROCB20171214edce001jl  



 SEEconomy   HDAll Regional Fed Banks on Board With Wednesday's Discount-Rate Increase; The Fed's board of governors voted to raise the discount rate a quarter percentage point to 2%   BYBy Harriet Torry    WC219 words   PD14 December 2017   ET23:30   SNWSJ Pro Central Banking   SCRSTPROCB   LAEnglish   CYCopyright © 2017, Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 
   LPWASHINGTON—All 12 of the Federal Reserve's regional reserve banks are on board with the central bank's decision to raise its discount rate at Wednesday's policy meeting.

The Fed's rate-setting Federal Open Market Committee on Wednesday voted to raise its benchmark federal-funds rate a quarter percentage point to a range of 1.25% to 1.5%. The Fed's board of governors also voted to raise the primary credit rate, known as the discount rate, a quarter percentage point to 2%. The discount rate is the interest rate on short-term loans offered to healthy banks through the Fed's discount window.
   TDOn Thursday, the board approved requests from the directors of the Federal Reserve Banks of Chicago, St. Louis and Minneapolis to increase the rate to 2%, effective immediately, the Fed said in a statement.

Ahead of the Fed's rate decision, the directors of the nine other regional Fed banks had requested an increase in the discount rate to 2%, the Fed said in a statement Wednesday.

Write to Harriet Torry at harriet.torry@wsj.com
   COfed : Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System   INibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News   REusa : United States | usdc : Washington DC | namz : North America | uss : Southern U.S.   IPCG/FED | N/CBK | N/CMR | N/DJCS | N/DJN | N/ECO | N/EMP | N/GENI | N/IEN | N/NRG | N/WER | R/DC | R/US   IPDPRO | WSJ-PRO-CB | WSJ-PRO-NP | Central Banks | WSJPRO   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument RSTPROCB20171214edce001rx  



 SEEconomy   HDTranscript: Janet Yellen's December Postmeeting Press Conference; Fed chief discusses GOP plans to cut taxes, the outlook for the economy and inflation, and how she feels about leaving the central bank   WC9,028 words   PD14 December 2017   ET18:03   SNWSJ Pro Central Banking   SCRSTPROCB   LAEnglish   CYCopyright © 2017, Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 
   LPFederal Reserve Chairwoman Janet Yellen addressed the media Wednesday, Dec. 13, 2017, in Washington after the central bank voted to raise short-term interest rates for the third time this year. In her final scheduled press conference as Fed chief, she discussed Republican lawmakers' plans to cut taxes, the outlook for the economy and inflation, and how she feels about leaving the central bank early next year. Here is a transcript of her exchange with reporters, lightly edited for length and clarity.
   TDJANET YELLEN: Good afternoon. Today, the [Fed's interest-rate-setting] Federal Open Market Committee decided to raise the target range for the federal-funds rate by one-quarter percentage point, bringing it to 1¼ to 1½ percent. Our decision reflects our assessment that a gradual removal of monetary policy accommodation will sustain a strong labor market, while fostering a return of inflation to 2 percent, consistent with the maximum employment and price stability objectives assigned to us by law.

Before saying more about our decision, I'll review recent economic developments in the outlook. Following a slowdown in the first quarter, economic growth stepped up to a solid 3¼ percent pace in the second and third quarters of the year. Household spending has been expanding at a moderate rate. Business investment has picked up. And favorable economic conditions abroad have supported exports. Overall, we continue to expect that the economy will expand at a moderate pace. While changes in tax policy will likely provide some lift to economic activity in coming years, the magnitude and timing of the macroeconomic effects of any tax package remain uncertain.

Smoothing through hurricane-related fluctuations, job gains averaged 170,000 per month over the three months ending in November, well above estimates of the pace necessary to absorb new entrants to the labor force. The unemployment rate has declined further in recent months, and at 4.1 percent in November was modestly below the median of FOMC participants' estimates of its longer-run normal level. Broader measures of labor-market utilization have also continued to strengthen. Participation in the labor force has changed little on net over the past four years. Given the underlying downward trend in participation, stemming largely from the aging of the U.S. population, a relatively steady participation rate is a further sign of improved conditions in the labor market. We expect that the job market will remain strong in the years ahead.

You may have noticed that we altered the statement language about the labor-market outlook. This change highlights that the committee expects the labor market to remain strong, with sustained job creation, ample opportunities for workers, and rising wages. We anticipate some further strengthening in labor-market conditions in the months ahead. However, we expect the pace of job gains to moderate over time as we gradually reduce the degree of monetary policy accommodation. Allowing the labor market to overheat would raise the risk that monetary policy would need to tighten abruptly at a later stage, jeopardizing the economic expansion.

Even with the firming of economic growth and a stronger labor market, inflation has continued to run below the FOMC's 2 percent longer-run objective. The 12-month change in the price index for personal-consumption expenditures was 1.6 percent in October, up a bit from the summer but still below rates seen earlier in the year.

Core inflation, which excludes the volatile food and energy categories, has followed a similar pattern, and was 1.4 percent in October. We continue to believe that this year's surprising softness in inflation primarily reflects transitory developments that are largely unrelated to broader economic conditions. As a result, we still expect inflation will move up and stabilize around 2 percent over the next couple of years.

Nonetheless, as I've noted previously, our understanding of the forces driving inflation is imperfect. As emphasized in our statement, we will carefully monitor actual and expected inflation developments relative to our symmetric inflation goal. And as I've noted before, we're prepared to adjust monetary policy as needed to achieve our inflation and employment objectives over the medium term.

Let me turn to the economic projections that committee participants submitted for this meeting. As always, participants condition their projections on their own individual views of appropriate monetary policy, which in turn depend on each participant's assessment of the many factors that shape the outlook.

The median projection for growth of inflation-adjusted gross domestic product, or real GDP, is 2½ percent this year and next, and moderates to 2 percent by 2020, a bit above its estimated longer-run rate. The median projection for the unemployment rate stands at 4.1 percent in the fourth quarter of this year, and runs close to 4 percent over the next three years, modestly below the median estimate of its longer-run normal rate. Finally, the median inflation projection is 1.7 percent this year, 1.9 percent next year, and 2 percent in 2019 and 2020.

Compared with the projections made in September, real GDP growth is a little stronger. The unemployment rate is a bit lower, and inflation is essentially unchanged. Participants generally identified changes in tax policy as a factor supporting this modestly stronger outlook, although many noted that much uncertainty remains about the macroeconomic effects of the specific measures that ultimately may be implemented.

Returning to monetary policy, for the past two years the FOMC has been gradually increasing its target range for the federal-funds rate as the economy has continued to make progress toward our goals of maximum employment and price stability. Our decision today continues this process. We still expect that the ongoing strength of the economy will warrant gradual increases in the federal-funds rate. That expectation is based on our view that this rate remains somewhat below its neutral level; that is, the level that is neither expansionary nor contractionary and keeps the economy operating on an even keel.

Because the neutral rate currently appears to be quite low by historical standards, the federal-funds rate would not have to rise much further to get to a neutral policy stance. But because we also expect the neutral level of the federal-funds rate to rise somewhat over time, additional gradual rate hikes are likely to be appropriate over the next few years to sustain a strong labor market and stabilize inflation around our 2 percent longer-run objective. Even so, the committee continues to anticipate that the longer-run neutral level of the federal-funds rate is likely to remain below levels that prevailed in previous decades. This view is consistent with participants' projections of appropriate monetary policy.

The median projection for the federal-funds rate is 2.1 percent at the end of next year, 2.7 percent at the end of 2019, and 3.1 percent in 2020. Compared with the projections made in September, the median path for the federal-funds rate is unchanged through 2019, and a touch higher in 2020.

I should note that the economic outlook is highly uncertain, and participants will adjust their assessments of the appropriate path for the federal-funds rate as their economic outlooks and views of the risks to the outlook change. Policy is not on a preset course.

Additionally, the committee's balance-sheet normalization program, initiated in October, is proceeding. As we've noted previously, changing the target range for the federal-funds rate is our primary means of adjusting the stance of monetary policy, and we do not foresee a need to alter our balance-sheet normalization program. Hence our statement no longer mentions this program. Of course, we would be prepared to resume reinvestments if a material deterioration in the economic outlook were to warrant a sizable reduction in the federal-funds rate.

Finally, I'd like to note that although I have one more FOMC meeting to attend in the new year, this will be my last scheduled news conference. Over the next month and a half, I will do my utmost to ensure a smooth transition to my designated successor, [current Fed governor] Jay Powell. I'm confident that he is as deeply committed as I have been to the Federal Reserve's vital public mission.

Thank you for being such an attentive audience these past four years. And, as always, I'll be happy to take your questions.

Q: I'm Marty Crutsinger, Associated Press.

Madam Chair, could you give us any insight into the discussion and how it dealt with the major tax changes that Congress is considering now? There have been thoughts that, with these changes happening at a time when the economy is already – with unemployment so low that the Fed may be forced to increase its pace on rate hikes. Did any of that discussion come up in your meeting?

MS. YELLEN: So, yes, we did discuss tax policy. And let me say that most of my colleagues factored in the prospect of fiscal stimulus along the lines of what's being contemplated by Congress into their projections.

Now, I should emphasize that some have been incorporating those expectations into their projections throughout the year. So changes to the projections that you see since September should not be viewed as an impact – an estimate of the impact of the tax package. And in particular, broader expectations of changes to fiscal policy have been reflected in financial-market conditions, I think, over the past year.

For example, we have seen significant increase in the stock market. And at least some portion of that I would judge likely partly reflected expected tax changes. And that effect, along with other financial-market effects, which affects, for example, projected consumer spending and would have affected wealth, that's been part of participants' forecasts now for some time.

I think my colleagues and I are in line with the general expectation among most economists that the type of tax changes that are likely to be enacted would tend to provide some modest lift to GDP growth in the coming years. And you see that. In part that's one of the reasons, I think, for the uptick you see in estimated growth and decline in the unemployment rate.

The views of participants, I believe, have been informed by a wide range of analysis, including that of the [congressional] Joint Committee on Taxation and other outside evaluators. And my sense is that their estimates are essentially in this same ballpark, although they recognize, as I emphasized, that there is considerable uncertainty about the impacts and that will have to be monitored over time. More specifically, they tend to see the packages boosting both consumer spending and capital spending to some extent.

Now, to the extent that the changes do have positive impact on the growth of potential GDP and longer-run growth, let me just say that this is something that, should it occur, would be very welcome to participants as long as it's consistent with the attainment of our employment and inflation objectives.

I guess I would also urge you to remember that when you look at the projections, that there are many factors that affect those projections and changes in tax policy. That's only one of a number of factors, including incoming data that has, to some extent, altered the outlook for growth in inflation. All of that factors into the projections you see.

But I think, bottom line, when you look at assessments of the funds rate path, participants continue to see gradual increases in the target rate for the federal-funds rate as being appropriate to sustain a strong labor market and bring inflation back to 2 percent. And, look, importantly there is a lot of uncertainty about what the likely effects will be. And my colleagues and I will be committed, as always, to evaluating incoming data and altering the outlook as appropriate.

Q: Harriet Torry with Dow Jones Newswires.

You and others at the Fed have said that soft inflation should be transitory. Are you confident that that will still be the case, particularly regarding wage gains? They've been pretty moderate in recent months, yet the economy is growing and confidence is high. Is there something going on in the economy that's making it difficult for businesses to raise wages?

MS. YELLEN: So it is true that incoming wage data suggests only modest upward pressure on wages. That leads me – that's one factor, along with the fact that inflation remains low, with feeling that even though we have a 4.1 percent unemployment rate, that the labor market is not overheated at this point. Remember the modest pace of wage gains also probably reflects slow productivity growth. But when you ask me about the outlook for inflation, you know, I've talked in detail about this in the past, and recognized that there is uncertainty about what's holding inflation down. But my colleagues and I continue to believe that the factors that are responsible this year for holding inflation down are likely to prove transitory.

That said, we all agree that our inflation objective is extremely important. We recognize that there's been a prolonged shortfall. This is a symmetric 2 percent inflation objective. And we continue to indicate that we'll be monitoring inflation developments closely. And so this is on the horizon and recognized to be one of the risks facing policy.

Q: Thank you. Nick Timiraos of The Wall Street Journal.

Chair Yellen, I wanted to follow up on the question about tax changes. When you addressed it earlier today, and when you spoke to Congress last month, you often described that you would welcome higher growth in the context of the employment and inflation mandate. And I guess I wonder how you judge the major provisions of the House and Senate tax plans – a corporate rate cut, immediate expensing of big-ticket purchases, new rates for passthroughs, temporary rate cuts for individuals. Do you see those, on balance, boosting the productive capacity of the U.S. economy, as opposed to simply increasingly aggregate demand? And related to that, how would you view the benefit of such tax changes now, when the economy is nearing full employment, versus at earlier periods when there was greater resource slack?

MS. YELLEN: So I think my colleagues and I mainly see the likely tax package as boosting aggregate demand, but also having some potential to boost aggregate supply. So changes on the corporate tax side, the reduction in the corporate tax rate, expensing will lower the cost of capital. And while there are a range of estimates and uncertainty about how much stimulus that will provide to investment, in general I would see some stimulus to investment.

In terms of aggregate supply effects, a stronger pace of investment could boost capital formation and thereby raise productivity growth, and potential GDP or output, to some extent. Exactly how large those effects might be remain uncertain. But that is a channel. And I suppose it's also possible – I'm uncertain how significant this would be – that lower marginal effect of tax rates for those groups that will see them could boost labor supply. And again, there are a range of estimates in the literature.

As I indicated, I think participants who have reviewed a number of pieces of analysis, including the Joint Committee on Taxation estimates and the many outside analysts who have weighed in on this, have been influenced by that kind of analysis. But there is a good deal of uncertainty about what the impacts would be. And to the extent that there are larger impacts than those analyses assume on aggregate supply or potential GDP, in the context of an economy that has had disturbingly low productivity growth, that would be welcome and could support faster GDP growth, at least for some period, without – you know, without creating a need to tighten monetary policy to offset that. So there are potentially both demand and supply effects here.

So, importantly, you really don't, at the end of the day, see very much change in the federal-funds rate path. Participants do recognize that the unemployment rate is lower than their estimates of its long-run sustainable rate. So I think we are in the vicinity of full employment.

Q: Heather Long from the Washington Post.

You've mentioned that the committee thinks there will be wage increases next year. I'm wondering if you could clarify if that is coming in part or mostly from the changes to the tax plan. Is that – is that what the expectation is would drive the wage increases?

And I was also wondering – I've heard from so many female economists in academia and at the Fed about what an inspiration you've been to them and how melancholy they will be to see you go. I was wondering if you just had any final words to young females and minorities who may be looking to enter economics or banking profession and rise to your level.

MS. YELLEN: I'm sorry, remind me of the first part of your question. (Laughter.) At least if –

Q: Wages.

MS. YELLEN: About wages, yeah.

Q: Is the tax policy driving wage increase expectation.

MS. YELLEN: Well, I think generally in a strong labor market where many firms are having difficult finding qualified workers, we would expect just through normal demand and supply channels to see some upward pressure on wage growth over time. And as the labor market has tightened, we've seen some very gradual drift upward in wage gains. They remain – it remains at a low level. But would expect, in the context of an ongoing strong labor market, to see some upward pressure, and I believe that's the main thing that my colleagues are factoring in.

On your question on advice to women and minorities, in the Federal Reserve my colleagues and I are very focused on wanting to see and do what we can to foster greater participation of women and minorities in economics. We would love to, if we could, increase our hiring ourselves of women and minorities.

And we see that both women and minorities are studying economics in disproportionately and disturbingly low numbers. Although the women in STEM [science, technology, engineering and mathematics] fields generally are about even with men, represent about 50 percent, in economics women majors constitute something like 30 percent of undergraduate majors, and there is disproportionate low enrollment of minorities.

I will just say from my own experience I think economics is a terrific field. I've thoroughly enjoyed my career in economics, and think there are many different paths that people can follow that lead to satisfying careers, and that there are very interesting and important questions that economics addresses. And it is a great field, and would like to encourage greater involvement, and think that people will find that satisfying.

And just in terms of the kinds of research that's done in the field, I think also a greater diversity – more women and minorities – may change the focus, to some extent, of the questions that people choose to look at and the analysis that they bring and range of thinking that bears on research. And all of that would be a healthy development.

Q: Steve Liesman, CNBC.

Every day it seems we look at the stock market; it goes up triple digits in the Dow Jones. To what extent are there concerns at the Federal Reserve about current market valuations? And do they now or should they, do you think, if we keep on going on this trajectory, should that animate monetary policy?

Finally, maybe as a sign of what's been going on with valuations, this cryptocurrency called bitcoin keeps going up every day. What is the policy of the central bank of the United States of the introduction, use and incredible rise in popularity of bitcoin?

MS. YELLEN: OK, so let me start, Steve, with the stock market generally. I mean, of course, the stock market has gone up a great deal this year. And we have, in recent months, characterized the general level of asset valuations as elevated.

What that reflects is simply the assessment that looking at price-earnings ratios, and comparable metrics for other assets other than equities, we see ratios that are in the high end of historical ranges. And so that's worth pointing out.

But economists are not great at knowing what appropriate valuations are. We don't have a terrific record. And the fact that those valuations are high doesn't mean that they're necessarily overvalued. We are in a – I've mentioned this in my opening statement and we've talked about this repeatedly, like a low-interest-rate environment, lower than we've had in past decades. And if that turns out to be the case, that's a factor that supports higher valuations. We're enjoying solid economic growth with low inflation. And the risks in the global economy look more balanced than they have in many years.

So I think what we need to and are trying to think through is if there were an adjustment in asset valuations with the stock market, what impact would that have on the economy, and would it provoke financial-stability concerns? And I think when we look at other indicators of financial-stability risks, there's nothing flashing red there or possibly even orange. We have a much more resilient, stronger banking system, and we're not seeing some worrisome building in leverage or credit growth at successive levels.

So, you know, this is something that the FOMC pays attention to. But if you ask me, is this a significant factor shaping monetary policy now, well, it's on the list of risks. It's not a major – it's not a major factor.

And then you asked about bitcoin. And there I would simply say that bitcoin at this time plays a very small role in the payment system. It is not a stable source of – store of value. And it doesn't constitute legal tender. It is a highly speculative asset. And the Fed doesn't really play any role, any regulatory role, with respect to bitcoin other than assuring that banking organizations that we do supervise are attentive that they're appropriately managing any interactions they have with participants in that market and appropriately monitoring anti-money-laundering Bank Secrecy Act, you know, responsibilities that they have.

Q: Has there been a directive – pardon me. Has there been a directive about bitcoin to the banks and their dealings with bitcoin from the Federal Reserve?

MS. YELLEN: I don't believe there's been anything specific about that. Just generally, banks have Bank Secrecy Act anti-money-laundering responsibilities. And this applies to bitcoin and it does every other realm.

Q: Donna – hi, Chair Yellen. Donna Borak with CNN.

To return back to the prospective tax-bill questions, in your view at all, is the Republican tax bill an ill-timed fiscal stimulus? And are you concerned at all it will wind up squandering the tools that both the Congress and the Fed have when it comes time to dealing with a recession?

MS. YELLEN: So, look, it's – I will just say that it is up to the administration and Congress to decide on appropriate fiscal policy. And our job is to maintain our focus on employment and inflation. We continue to think, as you can see from the projections, that a gradual path of rate increases remains appropriate, even with most – almost all participants now factoring their assessment of the impact of the tax – the tax policy. You know, it is projected that the tax-cut package will lead to additions to the national debt and boost, by the end of the horizon, the debt-to-GDP ratio.

And I will say – and this is nothing new; this is something I've been saying for a long time – I am personally concerned about the U.S. debt situation. It's not that the debt-to-GDP ratio in the – at the moment is extraordinarily or worrisomely high. But it's also not very low. And it's projected, as the population continues to age and the baby boomers retire, that that ratio will continue to rise in an unsustainable fashion. So the addition to the debt, taking what is already a significant problem and making it worse, is – it is of concern to me. And I think it does suggest that in some future downturn, which could occur just for whatever reason, the amount of fiscal space that would exist for fiscal policy to play an active role, it will be limited – may well be limited.

Q: Sam Fleming from the Financial Times.

A couple of longer-term questions. First of all, midway through the year you talked about the issue of whether inflation targets might need to be raised. There's obviously been a lot more debate in the Fed system since then about this. It may not be an imminent issue, but do you expect it to be something the Fed should be discussing over the coming years, some sort of change to the inflation target?

Second of all, the amount of stimulus tools that the Fed may have at its disposal when the next downturn strikes are fairly limited. One of the incoming governors, Marvin Goodfriend, has talked about the merits of negative interest rates. I just wondered whether you see that as a potential, at least in theory, for the Fed to consider, should it run out of other options. Thanks.

MS. YELLEN: So right now the FOMC is not discussing or considering its inflation target. We do see inflation as likely moving up to target over the next couple of years. And I would say – you said our stimulus tools are limited. I would want to empathize that if there were a negative shock to the economy we do have some scope to cut the fed-funds rate, and there are other tools available, ones that we have used previously – forward guidance and asset purchases. So I think we're not out – I wouldn't say that we're out of ammunition.

But certainly, it's been recognized, and I'm emphasized myself, that in the longer run we may be – and we'll have to see how this works out – but we may be in low interest rate environments where it could prove useful to have additional scope to conduct monetary policy. And in that context, I think additional research – the academic economists and others are thinking hard about what more could be done. And I think these are matters that are certainly worthy of further study.

Q: So you do believe that negative interest rates, at least in theory, are possible in the U.S. at some point, if it should be necessary? At least in theory.

MS. YELLEN: So, I mean, on that I would say we have – that's not something that we have studied inside the Fed to any considerable extent, and haven't seriously thought about using ourselves during this last downturn and recovery. We have watched what's happened in other countries. I think that's worthwhile. And I would say it's a – it's an area that academics may have interest in in the future, and is worthy of some study. But it hasn't been part of the Fed's agenda.

Q: Hi, Chair Yellen.

MS. YELLEN: Yes.

Q: Victoria Guida with Politico.

I just want to ask you quickly on the regulatory side, in your testimony to Congress recently you spoke positively about the Senate bank regulatory reform bill, and I was wondering if there are – beyond that bill if there are tweaks to [the] Dodd-Frank [financial-overhaul law] that you think might still be beneficial. And then, somewhat related, governor Powell recently said that there are currently no U.S. banks that are too big to fail, and I was wondering do you agree with that assessment.

MS. YELLEN: Well, I mean, you know, I think the – I'm not familiar with every detail of the bill, but I think the bill does address a wide range of issues that, you know, we have highlighted in the past as being ones where perhaps additional flexibility to tailor our supervisory requirements would be worthwhile. So I don't have additional things on the congressional list – sorry, and what – the other thing –

Q: Too big to fail –

MS. YELLEN: Oh, too big to fail –

Q: Are there any banks that are too big to fail right now?

MS. YELLEN: So, you know, we continue to work seriously on resolution and the resolution plans, the living wills, and the structure of systemic firms to ensure that it would be possible to resolve a firm – under the bankruptcy code would be the top choice of methods or, alternatively, under the Orderly Liquidation Authority. And I think it's fair to say that over time we have learned more ourselves and more clearly detailed our expectations for the firms that file living wills, and the firms themselves have made considerable progress in, you know, changing what they do, whether its adopting financial contracts that would facilitate a resolution rather than a disorderly unwinding of contracts, making sure that they're appropriately dealing with shared services so that key services would be able to continue, governance arrangements, legal entity structures – the firms have all made progress in adapting to our expectations of what would enable a successful resolution. So I think it's an ongoing process, and I believe we have made substantial progress.

Q: Binya Appelbaum, the New York Times.

I'm struggling to reconcile the pieces of the economic outlook that you've described today. You've said that we are basically at full employment. You've said that you are expecting a tax package to deliver a significant stimulus and that it will be on the demand side. You expect growth to be faster, you expect unemployment to be lower, and yet somehow inflation is going to remain at 2 percent for the foreseeable future.

Could you describe what has changed about your economic assessment so that everything has changed except inflation?

MS. YELLEN: Well, you know, the projections that we're showing you today – many factors went into that, fiscal policy being one of a number of different factors. And, you know, you are looking at 16 participants who have made adjustments to their economic outlook for a whole variety of reasons, including in some cases rethinking some of the fundamentals that went into their original forecasts. So there have been modifications in different directions by different participants. So it's – I would caution you about the dangers of looking at the median and acting like that is one individual who has made a change to their forecast. That's a leap that isn't quite justified.

But, look, generally you see modestly faster growth over the next couple of years, which is consistent, and I said, I think, for most participants reflects partly an impact from taxes stimulating consumer and investment spending. But it's not a gigantic increase in growth that – since – relative to September. You do see a lower path for unemployment, but remember that inflation has also been running low on a persistent basis. And the committee does have a concern about inflation, and wants to see it moving up.

And, on balance, you see only modest changes, slight revisions to the path for the fed-funds rate. You might think, well, shouldn't I see more? Well, OK, growth's a little stronger. The unemployment rate runs a little bit lower. That would perhaps push in the direction of slightly tighter monetary policy. But again, counterbalancing that is that inflation has run lower than we expect. And, you know, it could take a longer period of a very strong labor market in order to achieve the inflation objective.

Q: Justine Underhill, Yahoo Finance.

So William Dudley of the New York Fed recently said that the Fed is exploring the idea of potentially having its own cryptocurrency, or digital currency. What use do you see a cryptocurrency could have for the Fed? And do you see the potential of a cryptocurrency that might be considered legal tender?

MS. YELLEN: So I want to distinguish carefully between digital currency and cryptocurrency. This is – there is a discussion going on among central bankers about the potential merits of adopting – a central bank itself adopting a digital currency, and there might even be a central bank or two around the globe that might go in that direction. But I really want to caution that this is not something the Federal Reserve is seriously considering at this stage. While we're looking at research on this topic, there are, I think, to my mind, limited benefits from introducing it, a limited need for it, and some substantial concerns. And so I would really doubt that the Federal Reserve would soon go in that direction, but it is something that central banks are looking at to see if there could be benefits from doing it.

Q: Chair Yellen, before I ask this question, thanks for your stewardship of the economy –

MS. YELLEN: Thank you.

Q: – the benefits of which I've seen in some of the harder-hit parts of my own family, so.

MS. YELLEN: Thank you.

Q: Your tenure, we've seen six Federal Reserve presidents appointed. One was a woman and five are men. So I'd like to know how that comports with your commitment to gender diversity.

And, second, I wonder if you think this process of appointing reserve bank presidents needs to be more transparent and accountable. Recently, the Richmond Fed board took 11 months and they came up with a candidate who was another Fed board member. And so I'm wondering what you would say to critics who say that looks like cronyism, and if you think, you know, this could be simply a more open process. These are votes on national monetary policy, after all.

MS. YELLEN: So I would agree with you that these are important appointments. Under the Federal Reserve Act, the nonbanking directors of the reserve banks have responsibility for conducting a search, and the board of governors has to sign off on candidates. We've made very clear, and we monitor ongoing searches very carefully to make sure that absolutely every effort is made to create a pool that is diverse, and that there be a national search, and that every attempt should be made to create a diverse pool.

At the end of the day, we cannot guarantee that the outcomes of these searches will result in an increase in diversity. I mean, I've been very pleased to see that there's been some success in that regard. But we have signed off on the individuals who were appointed, and have held the view that these are individuals who were qualified to serve in these positions.

So I would hope – I would hope to see greater diversity. It has been a challenge to achieve that.

Q: Should the process be more open somehow?

MS. YELLEN: Well, I think the process has become more open. And a number of the recent searches, there has been outreach, public outreach, information on websites, acceptance of potential names and nominees. And those have gotten careful consideration. There's been – there have been meetings in some cases with community groups to try to enlarge the pool and get suggestions. And I think that's appropriate. And I think it has moved in the direction you're suggesting.

Q: Nancy Marshall-Genzer with Marketplace.

I'm wondering if you have any advice for incoming Chair Powell.

MS. YELLEN: Well, my colleague – I've had the pleasure of working with him now for many years. And he's somebody who understands the Federal Reserve very well and shares its values. And as I mentioned in my opening statement, he is committed to the mission of the Fed, to its independence and to its acting in a nonpartisan, nonpolitical way.

He is somebody who has participated in the FOMC now for many years. To the best of my knowledge, he's been part of the consensus. I don't believe he's ever dissented. I think there is strong consensus in the committee for the gradual approach that we've been pursuing. And governor Powell has been part of that consensus. So I feel he's very well positioned and very knowledgeable of all the ins and outs of everything that the Fed does in supervision, in the payment system. He's played an active role there and in monetary policy. And I have confidence that he is very capable of steering the Federal Reserve in the years ahead.

Q: ... This is John Heltman with American Banker.

Sort of a related question to what Nancy was asking. There have been some reservations among some Democratic senators recently during governor Powell's confirmation hearing and during the markup of the reg-relief bill about the approach towards regulation that the new leadership appears to be adopting.

Do you have any similar reservations about the new leadership's ability to deregulate in an evenhanded way that keeps an eye towards the stability of the financial system and the sort of – the advances that have come from postcrisis regulation?

MS. YELLEN: So I would say that all of my colleagues on the board have expressed a strong commitment to keep in place the core reforms that have produced a stronger financial system. And I'm considering there stronger capital, particularly for the most systemic institutions, higher-quality capital, stronger liquidity requirements, a rigorous stress-testing program, and resolution planning that will make it more possible to resolve the – a firm that encounters significant distress.

So I have heard broad-based commitment to those things. And I think they are the core of the reforms we have put in place. I think all of us agree that it is appropriate to tailor our regulatory requirements in all of those areas and others to the systemic footprint of firms. We've done a lot to do that, and I think there's more that could be done. And in some areas it would require legislation in order to do that. But I believe all of my colleagues and I are in agreement on that. And we're also focused on community banks and want to find ways to relieve burdens.

So in those important ways, I do think that all of my colleagues are in the same place with respect to their priorities.

Q: Are there any important differences between your colleagues' and your vision on regulatory reform?

MS. YELLEN: So I have not seen anything emerge at this point that I would describe as a significant difference.

Q: Hi. Howard Schneider with Reuters.

So, you mentioned, in response to Steve's question, that asset valuations you didn't think were on the sort of high-priority risk list right now. So I'm wondering, what do you think is on that risk list. And more broadly, what have you left undone? You've gotten high marks for bringing the economy back towards its goals, but are there things that are going to nag you when you walk out of here in February and say, really, I wish I'd seen this to completion? I mean, we're not doing negative interest rates. We're not doing inflation framework. What's at your top of – what's at the top of the to-do list that you are not getting to see to bring to ground here?

MS. YELLEN: So you asked about the risk list. There are always risks that affect the outlook. We tend to focus in our own evaluation to economic risks. And we've characterized them as balanced. And I think they are balanced. You know, I can always give you a list of, you know, potential troubles, international developments that could result in downside economic risk. But, look, at the moment the U.S. economy is performing well. The growth that we're seeing, it's not based on, for example, an unsustainable buildup of debt, as we had in the runup to the financial crisis. The global economy is doing well. We're in a synchronized expansion. This is the first time in many years that we've seen this. Inflation around the world is generally low.

So I think the risks are balanced there's less to lose sleep about now than has been true for quite some time. So I feel good about the economic outlook. I feel, you know, good that the labor market is in a very much stronger place than it was eight years ago. We have created 17 million jobs. We have got a good, strong labor market, and a very low unemployment rate. And I think that's been tremendously important to the well-being of American households and workers.

And I feel very pleased when I hear anecdotes from firms that tell me they're having a hard time finding workers. And they talk about, given that they're taking on people with skills that don't quite match what they want, but they're training them and, you know, giving them the training that they need in order to be able to fill jobs. I think that's a development that is a natural one that occurs in a strong labor market that tends to build human capital and worker skills, and that that's a strong positive. As I mentioned, I think the financial system is on much sounder footing, and that we have done a great deal to put in place greater capital liquidity and so forth, that make it less crisis prone, and that it has been an important objective.

What's on my undone list, you ask? We have a 2 percent symmetric inflation objective. And for a number of years now, inflation has been running under 2 percent. And I consider it an important priority to make sure that inflation doesn't chronically undershoot our 2 percent objective. And I want to see it move up to 2 percent. So most of my colleagues and I do believe that it's being held down by transitory factors, but there's work undone there in the sense we need to see it move up in line with our objective.

Q: Thank you, Chair Yellen. What do you think will be the drivers of inflation over the next couple of years? And how long will the committee go with low unemployment, low inflation, before you rethink monetary policy, this gradual rate hikes? Thank you.

MS. YELLEN: So, you know, I think for a number of years – we've had an undershoot of inflation for a number of years. We absolutely recognize that.

I think, until this year, undershoot was understandable. First we had a good deal of slack in the labor market. Then we had plummeting oil prices. And, beginning in mid-2014, there was a marked appreciation in the dollar. And those three factors held down inflation for a number of years.

Now, in 2016, core inflation came very close to 2 percent. We seem to be on a path of inflation moving up. And this year, beginning in March, there seemed to be a sequence of negative surprises. Some reflect one-time factors that were easily identifiable, like a marked decline in quality-adjusted cellphone plans. There may be other factors that are not so easy to name. But we would judge, no, inflation doesn't always follow exactly. There are errors and many factors that affect it beyond the key influences of labor-market slack, exchange rates and import prices, and oil prices. Those are three big ones, but there are other factors that affect inflation, too. And our judgment at this point is that transitory factors that are unrelated to the broader macroeconomic outlook are holding inflation down.

But I have tried to be straightforward in saying that this could end up being something that is more engrained and turns out to be permanent. It's very important to watch it and, if necessary, rethink.

What's determining inflation? A possibility is that the longer-run sustainable rate of unemployment is – it's been coming down. Estimates in the committee have come down. It's conceivable that they need to come down even more. It's not my judgment that inflation expectations have slipped, but that also remains a possibility that needs to be monitored. So there are – you know, there could be a rethink of inflation. I think it's important to watch inflation outcomes carefully. And if we don't see inflation moving in the manner that the committee anticipates to alter policies so that we do achieve our 2 percent objective, but at the moment most of my colleagues and I believe we are on track to achieve it.

Q: Hi, Chair Yellen. Jim Puzzanghera with the Los Angeles Times.

I'm wondering – you mentioned this is your last news conference. What are your plans when you step down from the Fed? Are you going to remain in Washington? Will you go back to Berkeley? And also, I'm curious if you have any disappointment that you're not going to be continuing in this job, as some of your predecessors have done?

MS. YELLEN: So on my plans, I don't have anything definite for you. I guess I have a home in Berkeley and expect to maintain it, but I would say my spouse is on the faculty. He's a professor at Georgetown and would like to stay in his job. And we expect to maintain Washington as our base. But I don't have any definite plans.

Let's see. And you asked me if I'm disappointed. So, let me just say that I have served in senior positions in the Federal Reserve now for quite a long time. I became president in San Francisco in 2004. And I have participated in the FOMC since that time, as president, as vice chair, and as chair. And it's been an immensely rewarding experience for me. I feel very positive about what we've been able to accomplish, and feel tremendous, you know, loyalty to the institution. So I did make the judgment that this is the right time for me to leave, but I feel I have served in senior positions at the Fed for a long time. And it's really been an honor and a privilege for me to have had a chance to do so.

Q: Adam Shapiro with Fox Business. Glad to hear you're staying on the East Coast.

I was just curious. I wanted to follow up to the bitcoin questions, but – because you've lived through what we all experienced in 2007-2008. And should the Fed take a more active role in trying to identify who some of the counterparty and what the exposure is with bitcoin as a potential threat to financial stability?

Just the best minds at the Fed can sometimes miss these kinds of threats. Your predecessor, Mr. [Ben] Bernanke, actually said in '07 that the contagion from subprime would not affect the housing market or the economy. So are we underestimating the potential threat from bitcoin as it runs up in value?

MS. YELLEN: Well, I certainly agree that it's important for the Fed to attempt to understand emerging risks to financial stability and to be looking not just in the banking system but outside it for developments that could pose financial risks. And we are doing that. And I would say one of the changes during my tenure is we devoted – decided, in the aftermath of the crisis, that we needed to devote considerable resources to financial stability, to monitor for emerging threats. And now we have at the board a full-blown division of financial stability that's involved in doing that.

Now, when you ask about bitcoin, I still see the financial-stability risks from it as limited. Often risks threatening financial stability arise when there's exposure of the banking system to fluctuating asset valuations. And I really don't see any significant exposure of our core financial institutions to threats from bitcoin if its value were to fluctuate. I don't see a threat to our core financial institutions. So undoubtedly there are individuals who could lose a lot of money if bitcoin were to fall in price. But I really don't see that as creating a full-blown financial-stability risk.

Q: Michael McKee from Bloomberg Television and Radio.

I suppose I should be asking you a valedictory question since it's the last question, but I don't think you can top what you've already said. So let me just do a couple of cleanup questions here.

President [Donald] Trump, while you were speaking, just said that he thinks his tax plan will produce 4 percent growth. Do you think that is possible? Second, do you think that there is any Fed blame or complicity in the flattening of the yield curve? And are you worried that there might be some sort of policy mistake built into that that could slow the economy?

And the last question, which is a bit of a valedictory, is one that everybody on Wall Street has wanted to ask you on four years. Since this is your last press conference, can you tell us which dot is yours? (Laughter.)

MS. YELLEN: Well, I can answer the last question first. The answer is no. I've never been willing to reveal which dot is mine, and I'm not – I'm not going to change that now.

So, you know, my assessment, and I think most participants' assessments, as I said, of the impact of the tax policy on growth has been informed by work by the Joint Committee on Taxation and other analysts. And everyone recognizes that there's uncertainty about what the economic effects would be, and I wouldn't want to rule anything out. It is challenging, however, to achieve growth of the levels that you mentioned.

Look, if the package were to stimulate growth of that magnitude, let me just say again, the Federal Reserve would welcome that. If it's a supply – favorable supply-side developments that would be compatible with the attainment of our employment and inflation objectives, that's something that would be very welcome. But it would be challenging to achieve numbers like that.

Let's see. I think you also then asked me about the yield curve and – I mean, there is much discussion about yield-curve inversions and whether or not a flattening yield curve could signal a recession. Is that the brunt of your question?

Q: And whether the Fed has made it – if there's a policy mistake embedded in that.

MS. YELLEN: So this is something that we discussed and have looked at. The yield curve has flattened some as we have raised short rates. It mainly – the flattening yield curve mainly reflects higher short-term rates. The yield curve is not currently inverted, and I would say that the current slope is well within its historical range.

Now there is a strong correlation historically between yield curve inversions and recessions, but let me emphasize that correlation is not causation, and I think that there are good reasons to think that the relationship between the slope of the yield curve and the business cycle may have changed. And one reason for that is that long-term interest rates generally embody two factors: one is the expected average value of short rates over, say, 10 years, and the second piece of it is a so-called term premium that often reflects things like inflation, inflation risk.

Typically, the term premium historically has been positive, so when the yield curve has inverted historically, it meant that short-term rates were well above average expected short rates over the longer run. So, with a positive term premium, that's what it means.

And, typically, that means that monetary policy is restrictive – sometimes quite restrictive, and some of those recessions were situations in which the Fed was consciously tightening monetary policy because inflation was high and trying to slow the economy.

Well, right now, the term premium is estimated to be quite low, close to zero, and that means that structurally – and this can be true going forward – that the yield curve is likely to be flatter than it has been in the past. And so it will – could more easily invert. If the Fed were to even move to a slightly restrictive policy stance, you could see an inversion with a zero-term premium. So I think the fact the term premium is so low and the yield curve is generally flatter is an important factor to consider.

Now I think it's also important to realize that market participants are not expressing heightened concern about the decline of the term premium and, when asked directly about the odds of recession, they see it as low, and I would concur with that judgment.

Related

* Fed Raises Rates, Sticks to Forecast for 2018 Increases

* Takeaways From the Fed's December Meeting

* How the December Statement Changed from November
   COfed : Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System   INi814 : Banking | ifinal : Financial Services | i81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Monetary Policy | e1116 : Employment/Unemployment | e1202 : Interest Rates | e211 : Government Budget/Taxation | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | e1103 : Inflation/Prices | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e21 : Government Finance   REnamz : North America | usa : United States | usdc : Washington DC | uss : Southern U.S.   IPCG/FED | I/BNK | M/FCL | N/CBK | N/CMR | N/DJN | N/ECO | N/EMP | N/GEN | N/GENI | N/IEN | N/PLT | N/TAX | R/DC | R/NME | R/US   IPDGoodfriend, Marvin | McKee, Michael | William Dudley | YELLEN, JANET | PRO | WSJ-PRO-CB | Central Banks | WSJPRO   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument RSTPROCB20171214edce001b9  



 HDChina’s Central Bank Raises Market Rates Hours After Fed Move   WC668 words   PD14 December 2017   ET07:40   SNDow Jones Institutional News   SCDJDN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright © 2017, Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 
   LPBEIJING—China’s central bank followed a U.S. interest-rate increase with one of its own to blunt the effect of the Federal Reserve move on the Chinese economy, which cooled further in November.

The People’s Bank of China on Thursday raised two key short-term interest rates, hours after the U.S. Fed’s third interest-rate increase this year. Economists say they expect the world’s second-largest economy to feel more pains of soaring funding costs in 2018. Fed officials have penciled in three quarter-point rate increases for the year and two such increases each in 2019 and 2020.
   TDThe Chinese central bank raised the rates it charges commercial banks on seven-day and 28-day loans by 0.05 percentage point each. It also raised rates for a medium-term liquidity instrument. The increases were smaller than 0.10 percentage-point moves in the first quarter, and the bank left the benchmark policy rates unchanged.

The moves indicate that China’s policy makers are trying to strike a balance between easing pressure on the yuan and reducing capital flight on one hand, and managing higher borrowing costs on the other.

The PBOC also injected 288 billion yuan ($43.52 billion) of liquidity into the banking system on Thursday to offset the effects of the rate increases.

“The rate increases by the PBOC risk exerting more pressure on the Chinese economy, which is widely expected to slow down in 2018 amid a cooling property market and slackening export demand,” said Liu Xuezhi, an economist with Bank of Communications.

The Chinese economy has already showed signs of softness in the final quarter of the year. Growth in China’s industrial output, a rough proxy for economic expansion, decelerated for a second straight month to 6.1% in November, compared with a 6.2% increase in October, according to data from the National Bureau of Statistics on Thursday.

While there was a clear pickup in external demand last month, industrial production was likely hurt by an antipollution crackdown in the country’s northeast, said Julian Evans-Pritchard, an economist with Capital Economics.

Growth in fixed-asset investment slowed for a fifth straight month to 7.2% in the first 11 months of 2017 from a year earlier, compared with a 7.3% increase over the January-October period.

The deceleration last month was mainly due to slower property investment. Such investment, including commercial and residential real estate, grew 7.5% in the January-November period, compared with a 7.8% rise in the first 10 months of the year.

Retail sales, one of the bright spots in the Chinese economy this year, also came in lower than expectations at 10.2%. Economists expected a 10.3% increase given record online sales on the “Singles Day” shopping spree midmonth.

China observers earlier this year had estimated a significant slowdown in growth after aggressive moves to reduce excessive borrowing and restrict home speculations. Instead, the Chinese economy grew 6.9% in the first halfand only lost steam slightly in the third quarter.

Economists attribute the unexpected strength to strong home sales, more government spending on infrastructure projects and robust global demand for Chinese goods. But with additional interest-rate increases and continued tightening in the market, the economic outlook may dim, Mr. Liu with Bank of Communications said.

OCBC economist Tommy Xie said the PBOC’s rate increase showed that Fed policy is still one of the parameters for Beijing’s policy.

“The adjustment of China’s money-market-rate increase will continue to remind investors that financial deleveraging is a long-haul project for China,” said Mr. Xie.

However, due to the concerns around growth, economists say a benchmark-rate increase, in addition to Thursday’s market-rate increases, is unlikely as it would lift borrowing costs for all bank loans.

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

December 14, 2017 01:40 ET (06:40 GMT)
   COpbchin : The People's Bank of China | fed : Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services   NSe12 : Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | ntop : Top Wire News | nttwn : Today's Top Wire News | ndj : Dow Jones Top Stories | redit : Selection of Top Stories/Trends/Analysis   REchina : China | usa : United States | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument DJDN000020171214edce000g4  



 SEEconomy   HDFed Raises Rates | Yellen's Final Rate Rise Draws Dissent | PBOC Raises Rates Hours After Fed | Questions for the ECB's Meeting | Torry's Take: Yellen's Parting Shot Tees Up Perplexing Year For Fed; The Wall Street Journal's central banking newsletter for Thursday, December 14, 2017   WC7,644 words   PD14 December 2017   ET12:55   SNWSJ Pro Central Banking   SCRSTPROCB   LAEnglish   CYCopyright © 2017, Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 
   LPTorry's Take: Yellen's Parting Shot Tees Up Perplexing Year For Fed

Fed Raises Rates, Sticks to Forecast for 2018 Increases
   TDYellen's Final Rate Rise Draws Dissent Driven by Weak Inflation Fears

China's Central Bank Raises Market Rates Hours After Fed Move

Five Questions for the European Central Bank's Policy Meeting

Yellen's Parting Shot Tees Up Perplexing Year For Fed

Several things happened at the Federal Reserve's policy meeting on Wednesday. The decision to raise short-term interest rates by a quarter percentage point was the most straightforward of them, but garnered the least attention.

Indeed, the biggest surprise was the comparative lack of action. Officials barely shifted their projections for inflation and the path of rate increases over the next few years, despite strong readings on economic growth and a booming labor market in recent months.

On weak inflation, Ms. Yellen still thinks factors holding it down will prove transitory. But she cautioned that "this could end up being something that is more ingrained and turns out to be permanent, it's very important to watch it and, if necessary, rethink."

Fed policy makers made a few tweaks on their assessment of employment. Their statement added the word "strong" in two places to describe the labor market, and officials lowered their forecasts for the level of unemployment over the next few years. But officials were backed into that corner weeks ago, when the unemployment rate for October dropped to 4.1% -- the level that officials in September predicted they wouldn't hit until the end of 2018.

The prospect of fiscal stimulus from looming tax cuts contributed to the most significant shift in officials' expectations. Their median estimate for annual growth in gross domestic product jumped to a rate of 2.5% in 2018 from 2.1% in their September projections.

Outgoing Fed Chairwoman Janet Yellen, diplomatic to the end, tiptoed around questions about whether now is the right time for fiscal stimulus, and reiterated that decisions on fiscal policy are up to the executive branch and Congress. Her parting shot to the Trump administration was clear however: it will be tricky for tax cuts to pay for faster economic growth.

The Trump White House expects that if the U.S. economy achieves the rapid growth it views as feasible under its economic policies, that expansion will generate enough money to pay for the $1.4 trillion tax overhaul.

But the tax overhaul nearing passage would result in a higher debt-to-GDP ratio, according to Ms. Yellen, and "taking what is already a significant problem and making it worse is of concern to me."

When asked whether the tax plan can produce annual 4% economic growth, she said "it would be challenging to achieve numbers like that."

Key Developments Around the World

Fed Raises Rates, Sticks to Forecast for 2018 Increases

By Nick Timiraos

WASHINGTON—The Federal Reserve showed continued optimism about the U.S. economy in voting Wednesday to raise short-term interest rates for the third time this year, and signaling it would stay on a similar path next year amid a leadership transition.

Officials nudged their economic-growth estimates higher for the next few years on expectations that congressional Republicans will pass tax cuts. But the Fed policy makers' new projections suggest the boost wouldn't be so large that they would have to speed up the pace of rate increases to guard against too much inflation.

"At the moment the U.S. economy is performing well," Fed Chairwoman Janet Yellen said at a press conference after the central bank's two-day policy meeting ended Wednesday.

"The growth that we're seeing, it's not based on, for example, an unsustainable buildup of debt," she added. "The global economy is doing well. We're in a synchronized expansion. This is the first time in many years we've seen this."

The Fed said it would increase its benchmark federal-funds rate Thursday by a quarter percentage point to a range between 1.25% and 1.5%, the fifth such increase in the past two years. Officials penciled in three quarter-point rate increases for next year, as they had in September, and two such increases each in 2019 and 2020.

The big question heading into their two-day meeting was how much Fed officials expected to lift rates in coming years. The prospect of new fiscal stimulus in the form of tax cuts, combined with solid hiring and lofty asset values, could argue for picking up the pace to prevent the economy from overheating. But low inflation and modest wage growth could support the case for sticking with a gradual approach.

Chicago Fed President Charles Evans joined Minneapolis Fed President Neel Kashkari on Wednesday in casting two dissenting votes, against seven in favor or raising rates. Both have cited weak inflation as a reason to hold off.

Fed officials projected the economy would grow 2.5% next year, up from the 2.1% they predicted in September. They also expect the unemployment rate will fall to 3.9% by the end of next year, down from their earlier forecast of 4.1%.

Officials didn't project more interest-rate increases or higher inflation because price pressures have been surprisingly muted this year. They still project inflation to rise to their 2% target by 2019, the same as they expected in September.

"It could take a longer period of a very strong labor market in order to achieve the inflation objective," Ms. Yellen said Wednesday.

Economists said the latest projections and Ms. Yellen's comments Wednesday show officials believe growth won't generate as much inflation as previously thought. "If inflation does actually pick up, it implies that they move more rapidly" to raise rates, said Lewis Alexander, chief U.S. economist at Nomura Securities.

Fed officials slashed their benchmark federal-funds rate to near zero during the financial crisis and held it there for seven years before raising it by a quarter percentage point in December 2015, the start of a gradual series of small increases. In October, the Fed also started shrinking its $4.5 trillion portfolio of bonds and other assets, most of which were purchased as part of extraordinary postcrisis measures to support the economy.

Since officials last met in early November, Congress has moved rapidly on legislation that would cut business and individual taxes by around $1.4 trillion over the next decade. Before this week, many Fed officials refrained from building into their forecasts much prospect of fiscal stimulus because it wasn't clear what Congress would pass.

House and Senate Republicans are reconciling different versions of tax bills that have passed their respective chambers with the goal of putting a unified plan before President Donald Trump to sign by Christmas. The White House has said the plan can boost growth to levels that make up for revenue shortfalls.

An analysis from the nonpartisan Joint Committee on Taxation found the tax bill wouldn't pay for itself with more economic growth and instead would result in about $1 trillion in additional budget deficits over a decade.

Fed officials' projections show they don't see the tax cut raising the economy's long-run growth rate, which they left unchanged at 1.8%.

"It's fair to say that the Fed doesn't see the tax package as a game changer in terms of growth—just some modest upside, concentrated mostly in 2018," said Roberto Perli, an analyst at research firm Cornerstone Macro LP.

While officials have now largely incorporated the effects of tax changes into their growth forecasts, Ms. Yellen said, "importantly, you really don't at the end of the day see very much change in the federal-funds rate path."

Ms. Yellen added that she remained concerned higher budget deficits could leave fiscal policy makers with less scope to respond aggressively to an economic downturn in the future. Budget deficits are projected to grow as the baby boom ages, even before the added effect of tax cuts. "Taking what is already a significant problem and making it worse, it is a concern to me," she said.

While Ms. Yellen will preside over one more Fed meeting early next year, Wednesday featured her last scheduled press conference before her term ends Feb. 3. While she is likely to hand her successor an economy in far better shape than when she took over four years ago, the Fed faces several balancing acts.

On one hand, inflation has run below its annual 2% target most of this year, reaching just 1.6% in October by the central bank's preferred gauge. On the other hand, with the economy so strong and more stimulus on the way, they don't want to hold rates too low for too long and cause price pressures to surge out of control or fuel asset bubbles and other financial imbalances.

Now that the Fed has successfully moved interest rates away from zero and initiated the steady wind down of the portfolio, "the battle is over the terminal fed-funds rate, and how quickly you get to it," said Vincent Reinhart, chief economist of Standish Mellon and former director of the Fed's monetary policy division. Fed officials' new projections show they see that longer-run level at around 2.75%, implying the Fed is already about half way there.

Mr. Trump's nominee to succeed Ms. Yellen as central bank chief, Fed governor Jerome Powell, has indicated he could offer a lighter touch on financial regulation but has shown few signs of diverging from Ms. Yellen on monetary policy.

Ms. Yellen has said she would resign her seat on the Fed's seven-member board once Mr. Powell is confirmed and sworn in, making her the third governor to leave within a year and giving Mr. Trump another opportunity to reshape the Fed.

Fed officials also are wrestling with the fact that the economy isn't responding to its rate moves as it did in the past, making it harder to discern the right policy path.

Fed increases in short-term rates used to tighten credit more broadly, causing bond yields to rise and boosting other borrowing costs, such as for mortgages, credit cards and business loans. This year, instead, financial conditions have eased, with stock prices rising to new highs and long-term bond yields remaining low, due in part to easy-money policies from central banks in Europe and Japan.

Banks have held rates on savings deposits at historically low levels. The average interest rate paid by the biggest U.S. banks on interest-bearing deposits rose to 0.40% in the third quarter, up from 0.34% in the second quarter, according to Autonomous Research.

Low interest rates have been a pleasant surprise for Joe Williams, 33, who is looking to trade up to a larger home to make room for a growing family. Mr. Williams, who works in retail operations, and his wife are preapproved for a 30-year mortgage that carries a 3.75% interest rate for the first seven years. That is higher than the 3.125% rate he locked in on his Minneapolis home two years ago.

If rates looked likely to rise faster, "that would motivate us to get a little bit more aggressive" in buying the move-up home, he said.

Greg Ip's Analysis

By Greg Ip

With U.S. unemployment at 4.1% and the economy at full capacity, the conventional wisdom is that this is the wrong time for Republicans to cut taxes by $1.4 trillion over the next decade. The fiscal stimulus will overheat the economy and force the Federal Reserve to slow it down by raising interest rates more aggressively.

That conventional wisdom may be wrong. Fed officials, in the projections released yesterday and in Chairwoman Janet Yellen's remarks, suggest they aren't standing in the way of any boost that the tax cut delivers. Indeed, it may not be entirely unwelcome.

The reasons are twofold. One is that inflation is still too low, and that completely changes the equation: It suggests overheating is to be welcomed, not resisted. The other is that officials are open to the possibility that the tax cut will raise the economy's potential growth rate, which means faster growth wouldn't necessarily lead to more inflation.

That isn't their base case, which may irritate President Donald Trump. But more important for Mr. Trump is that Ms. Yellen and her likely successor, Fed governor Jerome Powell, aren't yet the party poopers many supply-side tax cut advocates feared.

"My fears have not been realized," Larry Kudlow, an economist and radio host who has informally advised Mr. Trump, said in an interview Wednesday. The real test, he said, is how the Fed reacts if growth tops 3%, as he expects: "We have to wait and see."

Start with the projections. Fed officials now expect growth to average 2.3% from 2017 to 2020, up from 2.1% in September, and unemployment to average 4%, down from 4.2%.

Yet officials foresee virtually no change in inflation or any need to raise rates faster. This seems at odds with the Fed's view of the world, embodied by the "Phillips curve," which predicts inflation to pick up as unemployment drops further below its long-term rate, estimated by the Fed to be around 4.6%.

In her press conference Wednesday, Ms. Yellen explained that officials do expect the tax cut to raise growth and lower unemployment, but "counterbalancing that is that inflation has run lower than you expect. It could take a longer period of a very strong labor market in order to achieve the inflation objective."

Indeed, the Labor Department reported Wednesday that consumer prices, excluding energy and food, rose less than economists expected in November, perpetuating the puzzle of why inflation remains stuck below the Fed's 2% target. At his Senate confirmation hearing last month, Mr. Powell suggested the economy might not be at full employment because so many adult workers have dropped out of the labor force and aren't recorded as unemployed.

In such circumstances the Phillips curve dictates that the Fed slow or even halt the pace of interest-rate increases to get unemployment even lower. But fiscal stimulus can accomplish the same thing, and indeed Fed officials in past years routinely implored fiscal policy makers to share the burden of boosting growth. The latest projections suggest there remains some merit to the argument.

Though perhaps for not much longer. By 2020 Fed officials expect their benchmark federal-funds rate to reach 3.1%, which would be above the 2.8% they expect to prevail in a fully-employed economy growing normally. This is a sign they think the economy could overheat and need the Fed to press the brakes. When it has tried this in the past, the Fed has often overshot and pushed the economy into recession, precisely the outcome Mr. Kudlow and other supply-siders fear.

But three years is a long time, long enough to tell if the tax cut has the supply-side benefits proponents such as Mr. Kudlow claim.

If it does, then in an economy with "disturbingly low productivity growth, that would be welcome and could support faster [gross domestic product] growth, at least for some period, without creating a need to tighten monetary policy to offset that," Ms. Yellen said. In other words, it doesn't matter much what the Fed thinks right now about what the tax cut will accomplish; it will let the data answer that question and adjust interest rates accordingly.

This outlook isn't an endorsement. Ms. Yellen made it clear she didn't agree with Mr. Trump and Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin that the tax cut would pay for itself, and warned it may be "taking what is already a significant [debt] problem and making it worse." If she were running fiscal policy, it isn't what she would choose to do.

While this isn't what Mr. Trump and Republicans in Congress want to hear, Ms. Yellen's monetary actions matter far more than her fiscal words and on that front, they so far have little to fear.

Yellen's Final Rate Rise Draws Dissent Driven by Weak Inflation Fears

By Michael S. Derby

Janet Yellen's penultimate meeting as Federal Reserve chairwoman saw the central bank chief deliver the fifth rate rise of her tenure to notable formal opposition, as some officials continued to worry weak inflation negates the need for action.

Ms. Yellen moves to close out her term—she steps down early next year—having faced about the same level of formal dissension as her predecessor Ben Bernanke. In the final tally, opposition to Ms. Yellen's preferred policies never really seemed to affect what the Fed did. But as is often the case with dissenting votes on the interest-rate-setting Federal Open Market Committee, opposing views helped illustrate the difficult choices and uncertainties policy makers have faced as they tried to move monetary policy away crisis-era settings.

On Wednesday, Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis President Neel Kashkari and Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago leader Charles Evans both voted against the decision to lift the central bank's overnight target rate to a range between 1.25% and 1.50%.

The two "no" votes weren't that much of a surprise. Mr. Kashkari, a new regional Fed bank president in his first-ever voting rotation on the rate-setting FOMC this year, has spent much of the year arguing the central bank's long-running inability to get inflation back up to its 2% target means no rate rises are needed.

Mr. Evans, who has led his bank since 2007, has spent much of the year sounding somewhat uncomfortable with the push to raise rates in the current inflation landscape. The December FOMC meeting represented the first time this year he has moved to formally break with colleagues about the right path for monetary policy.

The laserlike focus of markets and the media on the Fed, joined with an explosion of so-called Fedspeak, may have given the impression Ms. Yellen and Mr. Bernanke faces a more unruly FOMC. But history shows that isn't the case.

Mr. Bernanke, who led the Fed until from early 2006 until early 2014, oversaw 66 FOMC meetings in a tenure that spanned the start of the financial crisis, the crash and the Fed's extraordinary efforts to put the economy back on better footing. Experimentation with a host of never-before-tried policies like detailed guidance about the future of rates, extended periods of near-zero interest rates, financial-sector bailouts and three rounds of long-term bond buying ruffled a lot of feathers among Fed leaders.

Mr. Bernanke garnered 48 dissenting votes at 41 of the meetings. Sometimes they came in bulk, like the triple-dissent meetings held in August and September of 2011.

Ms. Yellen, in contrast, has presided over 31 FOMC meetings during her single, four-year term as chairwoman. Fifteen of those meetings have seen dissents, for a total of 22 "no" votes.

Over her term, a number of the votes against Ms. Yellen's preferred policy path came from officials who felt she wasn't moving quickly enough to take policy off its emergency footing. Officials like Kansas City Fed leader Esther George favored rate rises through much of 2016, fearing overly easy policy was setting the stage for a potential inflation surge and unstable markets. Neither of those fears have come to pass.

Ms. Yellen's first year on the job proved particularly contentious as the Fed slowly wound down it bond-buying campaign. Some officials wanted the Fed to signal a return to more normal policy sooner than was happening, while then Minneapolis Fed chief Narayana Kocherlakota worried the Fed was undermining confidence that inflation would rise back to 2%. Mr. Kocherlaktoa feared the Fed was being too hasty at moving away from ultra-easy policy.

Late 2015 and 2016 were also sticky times, as some officials wanted the Fed to start raising rates sooner than Ms. Yellen and the FOMC majority thought prudent.

Broad and sustained votes against the FOMC consensus have ebbed and flowed over history, and have tended to rise during challenging economic times. According to the St. Louis Fed, Fed leaders between 1934 and 1978 saw few dissenting votes. That changed during the high-inflation, low-growth world of G. William Miller through to the term of Paul Volcker, who broke the back of surging price pressures with then radical short-term interest rate increases.

Dissent cooled during Alan Greenspan's leadership between 1987 and 2006. The so-called Maestro was known for ruling the FOMC with an iron hand, pushing back against those who would publicly challenge his views.

Both Mr. Bernanke and Ms. Yellen were recognized for welcoming a more open policy debate relative to Mr. Greenspan, and both were strong supporters of officials explaining their positions to the world. They also recognized that dissenting votes showed the central bank wasn't beset by one-sided views of the world.

Yellen: No Big Differences Between Her, Powell on Bank Rules

By Ryan Tracy

WASHINGTON—Federal Reserve Chairwoman Janet Yellen doesn't expect the Fed will dramatically depart from its current course on bank rules after she leaves early next year.

"All of my colleagues on the board have expressed a strong commitment to keep in place the core reforms that have produced a stronger financial system," Ms. Yellen said Wednesday in what was likely her final press conference as head of the central bank. "I have not seen anything emerge at this point that I would describe as a significant difference."

Current Fed governor Jerome Powell is awaiting Senate confirmation as the next Fed chief. Fed Vice Chair for Supervision Randal Quarles, a Trump appointee, recently joined the Fed as the point person on financial regulation.

Ms. Yellen sees "broad-based commitment" to those "core reforms," such as stress testing and higher banks capital requirements.

"I think all of us agree that it is appropriate to tailor regulatory requirements" and the Fed could do better in alleviating regulatory burden on community banks, she added.

Ms. Yellen also said the U.S. has made "substantial progress" on making big banks' bailouts less likely in the future, but stopped short of echoing Mr. Powell's recent statement that big U.S. banks are no longer "too big to fail."

Ms. Yellen hedged her answer, pointing to progress made in ensuring a huge bank could be unwound in an orderly way while adding: "I think it is an ongoing process."

Asked about the rapid rise in the value of the digital currency bitcoin, Ms. Yellen said it plays a very small role in the payment system, "is not a stable store of value" and "is a highly speculative asset."

She said the Fed doesn't have any role in regulating bitcoin, other than assuring banks are appropriately managing "any interactions they have with participants in that market and appropriately monitoring anti-money-laundering...responsibilities."

"I still see the financial stability risks from [bitcoin] as limited," she said. "Risks threatening financial stability arise when there is exposure to the banking system to fluctuating asset valuations, and I really don't see any significant exposure of our core financial institutions to threats from bitcoin."

"Undoubtedly there are individuals who could lose a lot of money if bitcoin were to fall in price but I really don't see that as creating a full-blown financial stability risk," Ms. Yellen said.

Fed's Brainard: Many Discouraged Workers Have Come Off Sidelines

By Harriet Torry

Federal Reserve governor Lael Brainard said Wednesday that today's strong job market has drawn many discouraged workers back into the labor force.

"In the past few years, the job market has gotten so strong that many [discouraged workers] have come off the sidelines—and many are now back at work," she said in remarks prepared for delivery in Rochester, N.Y.

Ms. Brainard said the current 4.1% unemployment rate is a "relatively low level by historical standards" and that "this is a great time" for young people to find a job.

Ms. Brainard didn't comment on monetary policy or the path of interest rates in opening remarks to a workforce development campaign awards ceremony.

Earlier Wednesday, the Fed said it was raising its benchmark federal-funds rate by a quarter percentage point to a range between 1.25% and 1.5%. Officials' projections showed they expect this rate increase, the Fed's third this year, to be followed by three more rate increases in 2018.

U.S. Economic Expansion Could Become Longest on Record

By Ben Leubsdorf

Forecasters are increasingly optimistic the U.S. economic expansion could continue beyond the 2020 presidential election, aided by Republican tax legislation that is expected to lift growth over the next several years.

The slow-but-sturdy expansion that began in mid-2009 already is the third-longest in U.S. history and, if it continues into the second half of 2019, will exceed the 10-year record set by the 1990s economic boom.

Most of the private-sector economic forecasters surveyed in recent days by The Wall Street Journal said the odds of a new recession by late 2020 were below 50%. The average probability of a recession in the next year was 14%, with the odds creeping up to 29% in two years and 43% in three years.

Economists were more pessimistic about the outlook before Donald Trump was elected president in November 2016. In the Journal's October 2016 survey, economists on average saw a 58% probability of a recession starting in the next four years.

The lower recession odds could reflect a number of factors, not least the economy's strong performance over the past year. Another possible contributor is legislation overhauling the tax code that Congress may soon send to Mr. Trump's desk.

Some 90% of economists surveyed said the tax bill would increase the pace of growth for the next two years, with most seeing a modest boost to the annual growth rate for gross domestic product. Forecasters remain split over its likely long-term effects: Nearly half, 47%, said growth in the long run would be unchanged or weaker than its current trend.

Those results were similar to economists' predictions in October, when the tax plan was in an earlier form.

A plurality of economists surveyed, 42%, said they believed the tax bill, if enacted, would make a recession in the next three years less likely than it would have been had the tax code remained in its current form.

"Tax reform will foster greater capital formation and economic growth," said Thomas Kevin Swift, chief economist at the American Chemistry Council.

Some 37% said the tax bill would make no difference and 22% said it would make a recession more likely by late 2020.

Some of the economists who warned the tax overhaul would increase the odds of a recession pointed to the possibility of aggressive interest-rate increases from the Federal Reserve if the central bank feels fiscal stimulus will cause the economy to overheat and generate damaging inflation.

"Tax-cut stimulus, if fully realized as its framers claim, will make for a very aggressive Fed response, upsetting the apple cart," said Rajeev Dhawan, director of Georgia State University's Economic Forecasting Center.

As 2017 draws to a close, forecasters predicted this year's strong growth would continue into 2018, and the odds of a near-term downturn continued to fall.

On average, economists projected GDP growth of 2.5% this year and 2.6% in 2018, followed by a return in 2019 and 2020 to the roughly 2% trend that has prevailed since the 2007-09 recession. Economists saw the pace of hiring moderating over the next year and the unemployment rate dipping below 4% by the end of 2018.

Some 68% of economists said risks to the outlook for growth were tilted to the upside, while 23% saw risks tilted to the downside and 9% said the risks were balanced. Upside risks included fiscal stimulus, while disruptions to foreign trade were listed by a number of forecasters as a downside risk.

The Journal's latest survey of 62 business, academic and financial economists was conducted Dec. 8-11. Not every economist answered every question.

China's Central Bank Raises Market Rates Hours After Fed Move

BEIJING—China's central bank followed a U.S. interest-rate increase with one of its own to blunt the effect of the Federal Reserve move on the Chinese economy, which cooled further in November.

The People's Bank of China on Thursday raised two key short-term interest rates, hours after the U.S. Fed's third interest-rate increase this year. Economists say they expect the world's second-largest economy to feel more pains of soaring funding costs in 2018. Fed officials have penciled in three quarter-point rate increases for the year and two such increases each in 2019 and 2020.

The Chinese central bank raised the rates it charges commercial banks on seven-day and 28-day loans by 0.05 percentage point each. It also raised rates for a medium-term liquidity instrument. The increases were smaller than 0.10 percentage-point moves in the first quarter, and the bank left the benchmark policy rates unchanged.

The moves indicate that China's policy makers are trying to strike a balance between easing pressure on the yuan and reducing capital flight on one hand, and managing higher borrowing costs on the other.

The PBOC also injected 288 billion yuan ($43.52 billion) of liquidity into the banking system on Thursday to offset the effects of the rate increases.

"The rate increases by the PBOC risk exerting more pressure on the Chinese economy, which is widely expected to slow down in 2018 amid a cooling property market and slackening export demand," said Liu Xuezhi, an economist with Bank of Communications.

The Chinese economy has already showed signs of softness in the final quarter of the year. Growth in China's industrial output, a rough proxy for economic expansion, decelerated for a second straight month to 6.1% in November, compared with a 6.2% increase in October, according to data from the National Bureau of Statistics on Thursday.

While there was a clear pickup in external demand last month, industrial production was likely hurt by an antipollution crackdown in the country's northeast, said Julian Evans-Pritchard, an economist with Capital Economics.

Growth in fixed-asset investment slowed for a fifth straight month to 7.2% in the first 11 months of 2017 from a year earlier, compared with a 7.3% increase over the January-October period.

The deceleration last month was mainly due to slower property investment. Such investment, including commercial and residential real estate, grew 7.5% in the January-November period, compared with a 7.8% rise in the first 10 months of the year.

Retail sales, one of the bright spots in the Chinese economy this year, also came in lower than expectations at 10.2%. Economists expected a 10.3% increase given record online sales on the "Singles Day" shopping spree midmonth.

China observers earlier this year had estimated a significant slowdown in growth after aggressive moves to reduce excessive borrowing and restrict home speculations. Instead, the Chinese economy grew 6.9% in the first half and only lost steam slightly in the third quarter.

Economists attribute the unexpected strength to strong home sales, more government spending on infrastructure projects and robust global demand for Chinese goods. But with additional interest-rate increases and continued tightening in the market, the economic outlook may dim, Mr. Liu with Bank of Communications said.

OCBC economist Tommy Xie said the PBOC's rate increase showed that Fed policy is still one of the parameters for Beijing's policy.

"The adjustment of China's money-market-rate increase will continue to remind investors that financial deleveraging is a long-haul project for China," said Mr. Xie.

However, due to the concerns around growth, economists say a benchmark-rate increase, in addition to Thursday's market-rate increases, is unlikely as it would lift borrowing costs for all bank loans.

—Grace Zhu and Shen Hong

Five Questions for the European Central Bank's Policy Meeting

By Tom Fairless

The European Central Bank pulled off a delicate balancing act seven weeks ago, announcing a major reduction of its bond-buying program that didn't upset financial markets.

But several top ECB officials were unhappy with that decision. They have been calling publicly for a swift end to the bank's bond purchases, known as quantitative easing, or QE, pointing to accelerating economic growth across the 19-nation eurozone and side effects from years of easy money.

There's no obvious need for the ECB to act again at its policy meeting Thursday. Its policy course is already set through next summer: The bank will continue buying bonds through September 2018, at a reduced pace of €30 billion ($35.3 billion) a month.

Still, investors will listen closely to ECB President Mario Draghi's press conference at 8:30 a.m. EST for clues on how quickly the bank might subsequently phase out QE and follow the U.S. Federal Reserve on the path toward higher interest rates. Here are five questions ahead of the ECB's policy decision, due at 7:45 a.m. EST.

What is the ECB expected to do?

Nothing, yet. But some analysts expect a subtle shift in tone from Mr. Draghi, to acknowledge the strength of the eurozone's economic recovery, and perhaps to signal that QE won't go on forever. That would be a nod to the ECB officials, including the heads of the Dutch and German central banks, who are unhappy with the decision not to announce an end date for QE.

How strong is the eurozone economy?

It's humming. The euro area has notched 18 straight quarters of growth, and business and consumer sentiment are at postcrisis highs. New ECB staff economic forecasts, to be published Thursday, are expected to underline the rosy outlook, showing growth of around 2% at least through 2019. The forecasts for 2020 will be unveiled for the first time.

So is the ECB doing too much?

While growth is accelerating, inflation remains too weak. It is expected to hover around 1.5% through 2019, some way from the ECB's goal of just below 2%. Meanwhile, economic uncertainties remain. Germany is still without a new government, and Italy's populist 5 Star Movement could emerge from national elections early next year as the strongest political force.

What is the ECB likely to do next?

Sometime over the coming months, analysts expect the ECB to tweak its guidance to investors to indicate that QE could be wound down soon. The bank has promised to extend the program until inflation is close to its target—that pledge will likely be dropped in the months ahead. Mr. Draghi also might explain what will happen to QE after September: He said in October the program wouldn't end abruptly, but the minutes of the bank's last policy meeting suggest the topic wasn't actually discussed by ECB officials.

Will the ECB be able to find enough bonds to buy next year?

The latest extension of QE means the ECB soon might struggle to find enough bonds to buy. Mr. Draghi might explain how the ECB could avoid any bottlenecks, perhaps by tilting purchases toward corporate bonds at the expense of sovereigns. That would invite questions about the riskiness of such a move: The ECB stands to lose money—on paper at least—on its bonds in retailer Steinhoff International Holdings NV, bought under QE, after they were downgraded this month to junk following possible accounting irregularities at the company.

Bank Indonesia Keeps Benchmark Repo Rate Unchanged at 4.25%

By I Made Sentana

JAKARTA—Bank Indonesia left interest rates unchanged Thursday as it maintained its support for an economy that is performing below government forecasts.

The widely expected decision to stand pat came less than a day after the Federal Reserve increased U.S. rates for a third time this year, leading a pack of global central banks away from easy-money measures aimed at propping up economic growth.

The Indonesian central bank kept the benchmark 7-day reverse repo rate unchanged at 4.25% for the fourth consecutive month after slashing it by a quarter percentage point both in July and August. The back-to-back cuts intended to fuel growth renewed pressure on the local currency after months of relative calm.

"Bank Indonesia views that all the measures that have been taken are enough to maintain the growth momentum," Bank Indonesia director for monetary policy Dody Budi Waluyo said after the monthly rate-setting meeting.

Unlike some other Asian central banks, Bank Indonesia isn't expected to tighten its monetary stance soon as easing inflation and sluggish domestic consumption continue to weigh on the economy.

Some economists expect Bank Indonesia to keep borrowing costs at current levels for another nine months before starting to tighten as higher U.S. interest rates weigh more heavily on the rupiah.

The bank's decision follows a similar outcome from the Philippines central bank. But some other central banks in Asia did take action following the Fed's move. The People's Bank of China tweaked some of its short-term funding rates, raising them by 0.05 percentage point, while keeping the main policy rates unchanged. Hong Kong raised its base rate by a quarter of a percentage point, a reflection of the city's currency peg to the U.S. dollar.

Philippines Central Bank Keeps Rates on Hold

By Gaurav Raghuvanshi

The Philippine central bank kept its main policy rates unchanged Thursday, sticking to its view that inflation remains manageable while it maintains support for an economy that is one of the fastest-growing in Asia.

The decision came after the Federal Reserve raised U.S. rates for the third time this year as it leads a global tide of central banking away from easy money aimed at supporting economic growth.

Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas kept its overnight borrowing rate at 3.0% and its overnight lending rate at 3.5%.

"The decision is based on the assessment that the outlook for the inflation environment has been broadly unchanged," the BSP said.

The central bank's decision was in line with the majority of economists polled by The Wall Street Journal. Only one surveyed economist predicted the Philippine central bank would raise rates, though some others expect a tightening cycle to start next year as U.S. interest rates continue to rise and the local currency remains weak.

The Philippine economy has been growing strongly, earning an upgrade to its sovereign rating by Fitch Ratings earlier this month. Gross domestic product rose 6.9% in the third quarter from a year earlier, beating economist estimates.

Despite the better-than-expected economic expansion, inflation has eased slightly after hitting a three-year high of 3.5% in October, keeping it squarely within the central bank's target range of between 2% and 4%.

While the BSP stood its ground, with Bank Indonesia forecast to do the same later in the day, some other monetary authorities in Asia did take action following the Fed's move.

The People's Bank of China tweaked some of its short-term funding rates, raising them by 0.05 percentage point following the Fed's move, but kept its main policy rates on hold. Hong Kong raised its base rate by a quarter of a percentage point to 1.75%, a reflection of the city's currency peg to the U.S. dollar.

Iceland's Central Bank Leaves Rates Unchanged as It Upgrades Economic View

By Nina Adam

Iceland's central bank left its key interest rate unchanged, pointing to stronger-than-expected economic activity over the course of 2017.

"The outlook for 2017 as a whole is for stronger gross-domestic-product growth than was forecast in the November monetary bulletin," Sedlabanki said in a press release Wednesday.

Domestic demand is likely to stay buoyant, a trend that calls for "a tight monetary stance," it said. Sedlabanki has cut the rate on seven-day deposits three times this year—in May, June and October—bringing it to 4.25%.

Sedlabanki said its future monetary policy stance will depend on fiscal policy and the results of wage settlements, among other things. "If fiscal policy in 2018 proves more accommodative than was assumed in November, it will require a tighter monetary stance than would otherwise be needed," it cautioned.

Iceland's new government has yet to present its 2018 budget proposal and medium-term fiscal plans.

The slightly hawkish tone of the statement—especially the central bank's assessment of Iceland's recent economic performance and the fiscal outlook—surprised Jon Bentsson, chief economist at Islandsbanki.

"All in all, there is a lower probability of a rate reduction in the course of next year…but I still expect one or two smaller rate reductions in 2019," Mr. Bentsson said.

Economic growth in the Nordic island of about 330,000 people has slowed this year and most private-sector economists say that the economy is headed for a soft landing.

Sedlabanki forecast in November that the Icelandic economy would expand by 3.7% in 2017 after 7.4% growth in 2016. The projection appears too modest in light of the central bank's latest assessment.

—Dominic Chopping contributed to this article.

THURSDAY

7:45 a.m. EST

European Central Bank releases policy statement

8:30 a.m. EST

ECB's Draghi holds press conference in Frankfurt

12:40 p.m. EST

Bank of Canada's Poloz speaks in Toronto

FRIDAY

9:15 a.m. EST

U.S. Federal Reserve releases November industrial production

10:15 p.m. EST

ECB's Coeuré speaks on panel on geopolitical risks at South East Asian Central Banks meeting in Bangkok

Optimal Fiscal Policy and Sovereign Debt Crises

Stefan Niemann and Paul Pichler study how sovereign risk shapes optimal fiscal policy, finding optimal taxes and public spending are generally procyclical. In their National Bank of the Republic of Austria paper, the authors explain that rollover risk leads to countercyclical fiscal activity. These changes are associated with debt levels, they say: "Debt buildups are triggered already by relatively mild recessions, but successful fiscal consolidations occur only in exceptionally good times."

Productivity is Rising If You Know Where to Look

There are a few reasons to be optimistic about productivity growth, writes Neil Dutta in Bloomberg View. "Much of the recent weakness in productivity growth coincided with weak growth in capital-intensive industries in the goods-producing sector. That has reversed. In 2017, the economy has enjoyed a rotation of workers into productive industries in the goods-producing sector. Manufacturing payrolls are on track for their best year since 2014. Mining industries are poised for the strongest annual employment growth since 2011. These sectors tend to be more capital intensive and more productive in comparison to service industries."

South Korea and the Bank of Japan

With South Korean companies now competing for global market share against their Japan rivals in key sectors such as telecommunications and electrical machinery, the country's policy makers should pay more attention to what the Bank of Japan does, and less to actions of the U.S. Federal Reserve, writes Alicia García-Herrero for the Bruegel think tank. "The widening monetary policy divergence between the Fed and the BOJ can only harm South Korea," she writes. "It is likely to result in a weaker yen and thus more effective Japanese price competition against South Korean products in global markets. South Korea should be more worried about BOJ's extremely lax stance — and the consequences of the falling value of the yen — than about monetary policy normalization by the Fed."

A bump in energy prices boosted U.S. consumer prices in November, but that masked a softening in underlying inflation trends.

The number of Americans severely behind on payments on federal student loans reached roughly 4.6 million in the third quarter, a doubling from four years ago, despite a historically long stretch of U.S. job creation and steady economic growth.

Australia's economy added 61,600 jobs in November, extending a strong run of employment growth since the start of the year fanned by upbeat business conditions.

New Zealand's economy will grow at a slower pace than previously expected next year, though policies from a newly elected government that wants to spread the country's wealth to more people should see growth pick up further down the track, according to new forecasts.

Send us your tips, suggestions and feedback. Write to:

Jon Hilsenrath; Katy Burne; Michael Derby; Nell Henderson; Jason Douglas; Paul Hannon; Harriet Torry; Kate Davidson; David Harrison; Kim Mackrael; Tom Fairless; Michael Maloney.

Follow us on Twitter:

@WSJCentralBanks, @NHendersonWSJ, @KatyBurne, @PaulHannon29, @michaelsderby, @wsj_douglasj, @HarrietTorry, @ToddBuell, @KateDavidson, @d_harrison, @kimmackrael, @TomFairless, @mikemaloneyny
   COeurcb : European Central Bank | fed : Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System | pbchin : The People's Bank of China   INibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News   REchina : China | eurz : Europe | usa : United States | usmn : Minnesota | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America | usc : Midwest U.S.   IPCG/FED | M/EUR | N/CMR | N/DJN | N/ECB | N/EMP | N/GENI | N/IEN | N/PBOC | P/HDL | R/CH | R/EU | R/US   IPDPRO | WSJ-PRO-CB | Pro Central Banks Newsletter | WSJPRO   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument RSTPROCB20171214edce000ul  



 HDPress Release: Hercules Capital's Highly Asset Sensitive Debt Investment Portfolio to Generate Additional $0.03 of Net Investment Income Earnings Annually(2) from the Recent Increase in the  Federal Reserve  Benchmark  Interest Rate    WC990 words   PD14 December 2017   ET12:00   SNDow Jones Institutional News   SCDJDN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright © 2017, Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 
   LPHercules Capital's Highly Asset Sensitive Debt Investment Portfolio to Generate Additional $0.03 of Net Investment Income Earnings Annually(2) from the Recent Increase in the Federal Reserve Benchmark Interest Rate


   -- 96.7% of Hercules' existing Debt Investment Portfolio is priced at 
      floating interest rates, as of September 30, 2017 
 
   -- 100.0% of the Company's outstanding debt liability obligations are fixed 
      rate, as of September 30, 2017 
 
   -- The Prime Rate is expected to increase from 4.25% to 4.50% 
 
   -- A 25 basis point increase in the Prime Rate is anticipated to generate 
      approximately $2.6 million, or $0.03 per share of additional Net 
      Investment Income or "NII" (2) 
PALO ALTO, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--December 14, 2017-- 
   TDHercules Capital, Inc. (NYSE: HTGC) ("Hercules" or the "Company"), the leading specialty finance company to innovative, venture growth, pre-IPO and M&A stage companies backed by leading venture capital firms, today announced the estimated accretive impact to its debt investment portfolio attributed to the Federal Reserve - Federal Open Market Committee's ("FOMC") increase in the federal funds rate by 25 basis points, or 0.25%.

Hercules anticipates a 25 basis point increase in the Prime Rate will contribute approximately $2.6 million, or $0.03 per share, of NII per annum, based on the basic weighted share outstanding as of September 30, 2017. As of September 30, 2017, 96.7% of Hercules' debt investment portfolio of $1.3 billion, at cost, was primarily priced at PRIME or LIBOR-based floating interest rates, while 100.0% of the Company's outstanding debt obligations have a fixed rate of interest, well positioning Hercules for additional future rate increases. Given the expected increase to the Prime Rate will be taking effect in mid-December 2017, the anticipated increase is not expected to have any material impact to our NII in Q4 2017. The expected benefit from the December 2017 rate increase is expected to materialize during our 2018 operating period.

Based on Hercules' Consolidated Statement of Assets and Liabilities as of September 30, 2017, the following table illustrates the approximate annualized increase in components of net income resulting from hypothetical base rate changes in interest rates, such as prime rate, assuming no changes in the Company's investments and borrowings. 


 
(in thousands)      Interest        Interest          Net            EPS(2) 
Basis Point 
Change              Income(1)       Expense         Income 
--------------    -------------    ----------    -------------    ------------ 
25                  $     2,630       $     -     $      2,630     $      0.03 
50                  $     5,505       $     -     $      5,505     $      0.07 
75                  $     8,380       $     -     $      8,380     $      0.10 
100                 $    11,406       $     -     $     11,406     $      0.14 
200                 $    24,161       $     -     $     24,161     $      0.29 
300                 $    37,169       $     -     $     37,169     $      0.45 
 
(1) Source: Hercules Capital Form 10-Q for Q3 2017 
(2) EPS calculated on basic weighted shares outstanding of 82,496. Estimates 
are subject to change due to impact from active participation in the Company's 
equity ATM program. 
 

About Hercules Capital, Inc.

Hercules Capital, Inc. (NYSE: HTGC) ("Hercules") is the leading and largest specialty finance company focused on providing senior secured venture growth loans to high-growth, innovative venture capital-backed companies in a broad variety of technology, life sciences and sustainable and renewable technology industries. Since inception (December 2003), Hercules has committed more than $7.0 billion to over 390 companies and is the lender of choice for entrepreneurs and venture capital firms seeking growth capital financing. Companies interested in learning more about financing opportunities should contact info@htgc.com, or call 650.289.3060.

Hercules' common stock trades on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) under the ticker symbol "HTGC." In addition, Hercules has three outstanding bond issuances of 6.25% Unsecured Notes due July 2024 (NYSE: HTGX), 4.375% Convertible Senior Notes due February 2022 and 4.625% Unsecured Investment Grade Notes due October 2022.

Forward-Looking Statements

This press release may contain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. You should understand that under Section 27A(b)(2)(B) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E(b)(2)(B) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, the "safe harbor" provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 do not apply to forward-looking statements made in periodic reports we file under the Exchange Act.

The information disclosed in this press release is made as of the date hereof and reflects Hercules most current assessment of its historical financial performance. Actual financial results filed with the SEC may differ from those contained herein due to timing delays between the date of this release and confirmation of final audit results. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements including, without limitation, the risks, uncertainties, including the uncertainties surrounding the current market volatility, and other factors the Company identifies from time to time in its filings with the SEC. Although Hercules believes that the assumptions on which these forward-looking statements are based are reasonable, any of those assumptions could prove to be inaccurate and, as a result, the forward-looking statements based on those assumptions also could be incorrect. You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements contained in this release are made as of the date hereof, and Hercules assumes no obligation to update the forward-looking statements for subsequent events.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20171214005394/en/


 
    CONTACT:    Hercules Capital, Inc. 

Michael Hara, 650-433-5578 HT-HN

Investor Relations and Corporate Communications

mhara@htgc.com

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

December 14, 2017 06:00 ET (11:00 GMT)
   COfed : Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System   NSc151 : Earnings | c184 : Joint Ventures/Consortia | e1202 : Interest Rates | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | npress : Press Releases | c15 : Financial Performance | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e12 : Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter   REusca : California | namz : North America | usa : United States | usw : Western U.S.   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument DJDN000020171214edce0018k  



 HDEUR/USD Reaction Likely Muted After ECB, Says ING -- Market Talk   WC1,245 words   PD14 December 2017   ET09:23   SNDow Jones Institutional News   SCDJDN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright © 2017, Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 
   LP0823 GMT - EUR/USD reaction to the European Central Bank meeting "should be muted today," says ING. EUR/USD is flat at 1.1825, ahead of the ECB meeting, due at 1245 GMT, and after the U.S. Federal Reserve raised interest rates as expected on Wednesday, while leaving its rate outlook for the coming years unchanged. "Fed [will] unlikely [be] providing a catalyst for persistent USD strength" going forward, says ING, adding that the market is already fully pricing two additional rate increases for next year. The ECB meeting will "be a non-event," ING says. Though "the new set of ECB staff forecasts will be of interest." (olga.cotaga@wsj.com; @OlgaCotaga)
   TD0822 GMT - UniCredit says the Swiss franc is likely "to be little moved by the" Swiss National Bank, which announces a policy decision at 0830 GMT. "The bank will likely just welcome trend developments in currencies, which have helped to reduce the still over-valued franc." The Swiss franc has depreciated significantly against the euro in the second half of the year. EUR/CHF is flat at 1.1649, having risen from a rate below 1.09 in mid-June. The SNB is widely expected to leave the interest rate on sight deposits at -0.75% and the target range for the three-month Libor at between -1.25% and -0.25%. "The focus will be on whether the SNB further adjusts its language on the Swiss franc," UniCredit says.(olga.cotaga@wsj.com; @OlgaCotaga)

0806 GMT - Turkey's central bank may raise the late liquidity window rate by 100 basis points at its monetary policy committee meeting at 1100 GMT, ING Bank says. "This is on the back of the ongoing inflationary pressures, TRY weakness and recently raised geopolitical risks. However, the CBT's forward rate guidance will be crucial. As long as the CBT provides a credible threat or signal of further tightening this should be enough to stabilize TRY," ING Bank says. USD/TRY trades at 3.8275. (yeliz.candemir@wsj.com)

0748 GMT - The Bank of England has no reason to change its tone significantly compared to November, therefore maintaining its guidance of two rate rises over the three-year forecast period, Societe Generale says. This would prove traders in Sterling Overnight Index Average, or Sonia, derivatives right. Sonia three-year forwards stand 50 basis points above the spot rate, implying two 25-basis-point rate rises. (tasos.vossos@wsj.com; @tasosvos)

0745 GMT - The steep drop in 10-year Italian government bonds, or BTPs, Wednesday on the back of reports that the country's general elections will be held on March 4 could be "just a foretaste of what is to come as the elections draw closer," ING strategists say. Italy must hold elections by late May. Yields on 10-year BTPs jumped to 1.82% Wednesday from intraday lows of just under 1.7%. Yields rise as bond prices drop. (tasos.vossos@wsj.com; @tasosvos)

0742 GMT - German 10-year government bonds, or bunds, could take a hit Thursday if the European Central Bank has "second thoughts" on the dovish message from October, Commerzbank warns. Back then, the ECB managed to smoothly announce the tapering of its quantitative easing program, not committing to an end-date, maintaining its guidance on low rates until "well past" the end of QE and emphasizing on re-investments. But President Mario Draghi's tone could be more hawkish Thursday. Commerzbank recommends selling bunds into strength. (tasos.vossos@wsj.com; @tasosvos)

0707 GMT - As the US looks to complete a tax-overhaul effort, Indian industry has approached the finance ministry for help. In a pre-budget submission, firms have sought an across-the-board tax-rate cut for businesses and individuals on the proposed lines of expected changes in the US to spur domestic investment and demand while retaining competitiveness. "A similar approach should be followed by India," says the Federation of Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industries, a prominent industry body. Proposed is sending India's corporate-tax rate down to 25%. (rajesh.roy@wsj.com)

0653 GMT - India's wholesale inflation accelerated to an 8-month high in November, rising 3.9% from a year earlier, amid costlier fuel and vegetables. It mirrored the move in retail inflation, which was reported earlier this week at a 15-month high. Vegetable prices surged 15% from October and 60% from a year earlier while the year-over-year climb for fuel was 31%. With increases expected to accelerate the next few months, odds of another rate cut look bleak for now. Some economists believe the debate is, in fact, starting to shift to raising rates instead of lowering them. (anant.kala@wsj.com)

0634 GMT - In a much-needed fillip for India's infrastructure sector, the government plans to substantially raise capital spending on new roads and expanding railways next year. The allocation of funds in the federal budget due February could be raised as much as 40-50% from this FY's projected INR3.96 trillion ($61.6 billion), an government official says. Better infrastructure is key to cutting down costs and transportation times, and it could also be a growth catalyst for Asia's 3rd-biggest economy. The official said the other key areas the budget would likely focus on is the rural and agriculture sectors, where welfare programs could be announced. This all ahead of national elections due in 2019.(rajesh.roy@wsj.com)

0609 GMT - Indonesia's trade surplus is projected to have risen last month on improved exports and slowed import growth. The median forecast of 10 economists polled by WSJ is for a $1.1 billion surplus, versus October's $895 billion. The data are due Friday. (i-made.sentana@wsj.com)

0607 GMT - Amid a strengthened yen overnight amid doubts on the pace of further US rate hikes, Japanese stocks ended modestly lower, with yield-sensitive financial stocks getting hit particularly hard. Major insurer Sompo dropped 4.3% and major bank Resona shed 2.2% as 20-year JGB yields fell a half-basis point to 0.56% following the overnight drop in Treasury yields. The 10-year JGB was flat. The Nikkei fell 0.3% to 22694.45 as the dollar is at Y112.60, versus Y113.30 a day earlier. One stock bright spot was transportation firm SG, which followed up yesterday's 18% jump in its debut with a 14% climb today. (kosaku.narioka@wsj.com)

0350 GMT - China may continue to nudge its money market rates higher to further press banks to deleverage, says Tommy Xie, an economist at OCBC Bank, following the PBOC's move to raise 7-day and 28-day interest rates for the third time this year. Tweaking these lending rates and deposit rates will help China battle leverage since high debt levels are keeping it from raising its benchmark rates, he says. The indirect rate increase will do little to move bond and currency markets, he adds, given the "balanced signal" from higher than expected liquidity injections today. The offshore yuan in Hong Kong barely budged on the news, with the USD/CNH down 0.1% at 6.6072 yuan.(kenan.machado@wsj.com)

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

December 14, 2017 03:23 ET (08:23 GMT)
   COfed : Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System | eurcb : European Central Bank   NSe52 : Euro Zone/Currency | e12 : Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m132 : Foreign Exchange Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | namt : All Market Talk | ndjmt : Dow Jones Market Talk | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | nfiac : Fixed Income Asset Class News | nfxacb : Forex Asset Class Basic News | nfxacp : Forex Asset Class Premium News | nfxmt : Foreign Exchange Market Talk | m13 : Money/Currency Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter   REeurz : Europe | usa : United States | namz : North America   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument DJDN000020171214edce000oo  



 HDFTSE 100 to Fall Ahead of  Interest Rate  Decisions -- Market Talk   WC158 words   PD14 December 2017   ET08:58   SNDow Jones Institutional News   SCDJDN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright © 2017, Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 
   LP0758 GMT - London shares are tipped to open lower ahead of European interest rate decisions and after the U.S. Federal Reserve raised U.S. rates. The FTSE 100 Index is expected to fall 16 points to 7480 in early deals. The European Central Bank, the Swiss National Bank and the Bank of England will all issue rate decisions for the last time this year, though none are expected to make any changes. "The UK central bank is unlikely to change its view of the UK economy so soon after last month's inflation report, but the rise in CPI inflation to 3.1% earlier this week does vindicate the concern of some policymakers about the prospect of inflation starting to become entrenched," says Michael Hewson at CMC Markets. (philip.waller@wsj.com)

(END) Dow Jones Newswires
   TDDecember 14, 2017 02:58 ET (07:58 GMT)
   COfed : Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | e1103 : Inflation/Prices | c1521 : Analysts' Comments/Recommendations | ecpin : Consumer Price Index | namt : All Market Talk | ndjmt : Dow Jones Market Talk | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | nfxacb : Forex Asset Class Basic News | nfxacp : Forex Asset Class Premium News | nmsmc : Main Stock Market Commentary | nsmcm : Stock Market Commentary | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e12 : Monetary Policy | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter   REuk : United Kingdom | eurz : Europe | switz : Switzerland | usa : United States | dach : DACH Countries | eecz : European Union Countries | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument DJDN000020171214edce000ip  



 HDFOREX -Dollar on defensive after Fed leaves rate outlook unchanged   WC649 words   PD14 December 2017   ET04:56   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2017 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved. 
   LP* Dollar stays on defensive after its post-Fed slide

* Fed raises rates, leaves rate outlook unchanged
   TD* China lifts market rates after Fed's move

* Major currencies take China's higher rates in stride

* Aussie dollar climbs after strong Australian jobs data (Updates prices, adds comments)

By Masayuki Kitano

SINGAPORE, Dec 14 (Reuters) - The dollar remained on the defensive on Thursday, having tumbled after the Federal Reserve raised interest rates as expected, but left its rate outlook for the coming years unchanged.

There was limited reaction among major currencies after China raised interest rates marginally, in the wake of the Fed's move.

The dollar index, which tracks the greenback against a basket of six major currencies, eased 0.1 percent to 93.372 after falling 0.7 percent on Wednesday.

The Fed raised key short-term rates by a quarter point to a range of 1.25-1.50 percent on Wednesday. The Fed projected three more hikes in both 2018 and 2019, unchanged from the last round of forecasts in September.

Traders and analysts said the dollar came under pressure after the Fed's policy announcement as the U.S. central bank kept its interest rate projections steady rather than revising them higher.

Some market participants had speculated the Fed could raise its interest rate projection for next year to four rate hikes, said Stephen Innes, head of trading in Asia-Pacific for Oanda in Singapore.

"From the market perspective, anybody who was leaning that way basically ran for the exit," Innes said, referring to the dollar's drop after the Fed meeting.

Against the yen, the dollar inched up 0.1 percent to 112.62 yen, after sliding 0.9 percent on Wednesday and having retreated from Tuesday's four-week high of 113.75 yen.

The euro edged up 0.1 percent to $1.1836, having climbed 0.7 percent on Wednesday.

The dollar was also weighed down after U.S. core consumer price data released on Wednesday showed slowing inflation, raising concerns the Fed will be less able to execute multiple rate increases next year.

But some analysts see hopes for progress on U.S. tax reform, including tax cuts, lending support to the dollar.

Congressional Republicans reached a deal on final tax legislation on Wednesday, clearing the way for final votes next week on a package that would slash the U.S. corporate tax rate to 21 percent and cut taxes for wealthy Americans.

Hours after the Fed's rate hike, China's central bank on Thursday raised interest rates for its reverse repos and medium-term lending facility (MLF) loans by 5 basis points.

"Five basis points is not going to make that much of a difference. But it is an important symbolic message in the right direction, that rates are going higher," said Heng Koon How, head of markets strategy for United Overseas Bank in Singapore.

China's move underscores the gradual moves toward monetary policy tightening taking place globally, Heng added.

Data showing a surge in Australian jobs growth in November gave a lift to the Aussie, which touched a one-month high of $0.7675, and was last up 0.4 percent on the day at $0.7665 .

Later on Thursday, investors will turn their focus to monetary policy decisions by the European Central Bank and the Bank of England.

The BoE is widely expected to keep interest rates on hold at 0.5 percent on Thursday, after raising rates for the first time since 2007 last month.

The ECB is seen likely to keep interest rates steady and reaffirm its existing monetary policy stance, after having decided in October to halve bond buys to 30 billion euros a month from January. (Reporting by Masayuki Kitano; Editing by Eric Meijer and Jacqueline Wong) 
   RFReleased: 2017-12-14T04:56:33.000Z   COfed : Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | m132 : Foreign Exchange Markets | m13 : Money/Currency Markets | e12 : Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter   REaustr : Australia | china : China | nz : New Zealand | usa : United States | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America   IPCSERVICE:PSC | SERVICE:PTD | SERVICE:NAT | SERVICE:C | SERVICE:LBY | SERVICE:D | SERVICE:GRO | SERVICE:E | SERVICE:MTL | SERVICE:DNP | SERVICE:G | SERVICE:J | SERVICE:SOF | SERVICE:GNS | SERVICE:BNX | SERVICE:UCDPTEST | SERVICE:M | SERVICE:ABN | SERVICE:PGE | SERVICE:RWS | SERVICE:O | SERVICE:RAST | SERVICE:CSA | SERVICE:OIL | SERVICE:AUF | SERVICE:RWSA | SERVICE:RNP | SERVICE:U | SERVICE:SI | SERVICE:ABX | SERVICE:REULB | SERVICE:Z | SERVICE:AFA | SERVICE:RBN | SERVICE:FUN | LANG:en | OEC | AUS | BACT | CEN | ECO | EZ | FRX | INT | JPN | MCE | NZL | PLCY | USA   IPDBusiness | Economy | Asia | Australia | US | Asia / Pacific | New Zealand | Americas | Reports | North America | United States | Australia / New Zealand | East Asia | Japan | Market Reports | GLOBAL-FOREX/ (UPDATE 1) | GLOBAL | FOREX | (UPDATE 1)   PUBThomson Reuters (Markets) LLC   ANDocument LBA0000020171214edce005bp  



 HDUS STOCKS SNAPSHOT-Bank shares weigh on S&P 500 after Fed rate hike   WC124 words   PD13 December 2017   ET22:04   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2017 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved. 
   LPNEW YORK, Dec 13 (Reuters) - The S&P 500 dipped on Wednesday under pressure from the financial sector after the Federal Reserve made a widely expected interest rate hike but kept its rate outlook for coming years even as it projected faster U.S. economic growth.

The Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 81.11 points, or 0.33 percent, to 24,585.91, the S&P 500 lost 1.21 points, or 0.05 percent, to 2,662.9 and the Nasdaq Composite added 13.48 points, or 0.2 percent, to 6,875.80. (Reporting by Sinead Carew; Editing by James Dalgleish) 
   RFReleased: 2017-12-13T22:04:17.000Z   COfed : Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCSERVICE:PSC | SERVICE:PTD | SERVICE:ZZ | SERVICE:C | SERVICE:D | SERVICE:GRO | SERVICE:CANT | SERVICE:E | SERVICE:MTL | SERVICE:DNP | SERVICE:G | SERVICE:J | SERVICE:SOF | SERVICE:ZD | SERVICE:BNX | SERVICE:UCDPTEST | SERVICE:M | SERVICE:PGE | SERVICE:O | SERVICE:RAST | SERVICE:OIL | SERVICE:AUF | SERVICE:UKI | SERVICE:RNP | SERVICE:U | SERVICE:ABX | SERVICE:Z | SERVICE:RBN | SERVICE:FUN | LANG:en | OEC | BACT | STX | USA   IPDBusiness | Economy | US | Americas | Reports | North America | United States | Market Reports | USA-STOCKS/ (URGENT) | USA | STOCKS | (URGENT)   PUBThomson Reuters (Markets) LLC   ANDocument LBA0000020171213edcd00w95  



 HDLoonie Rallies After Fed Raises Rates -- Market Talk   WC1,414 words   PD13 December 2017   ET22:51   SNDow Jones Institutional News   SCDJDN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright © 2017, Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 
   LP1651 ET - The Canadian dollar rallies against the US dollar after the Federal Reserve raised short-term interest rates earlier in the day. The USD was recently at C$1.2820 from C$1.2865 late Tuesday, according to CQG. The loonie grinded higher as the FOMC raised the Fed target range to 1.25% 1.5% as universally expected. However, the currency's range continues to be viewed by analysts as rangebound given that it's stuck around the C$1.28 area. "The USD has closed the last four trading sessions within a few bps of the C$1.2855 area-very close to where spot is trading again today," Scotiabank says. The loonie is expected to remain trading within a two-cent area of current prices until a clear and sustained break either side is to occur, the firm adds. (david.george-cosh@wsj.com; @itsdgc)
   TD1533 ET - Fed Chairwoman Janet Yellen says she doesn't see significant differences between her and her colleagues on financial regulatory policy, a remark that indicates she expects continuity on that front after she has turn the keys over to her successor, current Fed governor Jerome Powell. "I have not seen anything emerge at this point that I would describe as a significant difference," Yellen says. She sees "broad-based commitment" to the rules she regards as core reforms adopted after the 2008 bank bailouts, such as stress testing and higher capital requirements. "I think all of us agree that it is appropriate to tailor regulatory requirements" and the Fed could do better in alleviating regulatory burden on community banks, she said. (ryan.tracy@wsj.com; @ryanjtracy)

1520 ET - Federal Reserve Chairwoman Janet Yellen said the US has made "substantial progress" on making big banks bailouts less likely in the future, but stopped short of echoing her putative successor's recent statement that big US banks are no longer "too big to fail." Fed governor Jerome Powell told Congress last month he would "say no" to the question of whether big US banks are too big to fail without a taxpayer bailout. Yellen hedged her answer, pointing to progress made in ensuring a huge bank could be unwound in an orderly way while adding "I think it is an ongoing process." (ryan.tracy@wsj.com; @ryanjtracy)

1514 ET - Fed Chairwoman Janet Yellen says she is concerned about what a Republican tax bill could do to the country's debt picture. While Yellen said Fed officials generally expect the bill to help boost economic growth, she also noted the bill is projected to add to the national debt. To the extent the bill takes a "significant problem" and makes it worse, Yellen says "it is a concern to me." But she took a pass when asked whether the bill was ill-timed, adding that it's up to Congress and the White House to set fiscal policy. (kate.davidson@wsj.com)

1511 ET - The digital currency bitcoin plays a very small role in the payment system, "is not a stable store of value" and "is a highly speculative asset" Yellen says in a press conference. She says the Fed doesn't have any role in regulating bitcoin, other than assuring banks are appropriately managing "any interactions they have with participants in that market and appropriately monitoring antimoney laundering ... responsibilities." (ryan.tracy@wsj.com; @ryanjtracy)

1505 ET - The stock market has been regularly hitting new records in recent months but Federal Reserve Chairwoman Janet Yellen is not concerned. Asset prices may be "elevated," she said, but that doesn't count as a major risk. "When we look at other indicators of financial stability risks there's nothing flashing red or possibly even orange," she said. "We have a much more resilient stronger banking system and we're not seeing some worrisome buildup in leverage or credit growth at excessive levels." (david.harrison@wsj.com)

1456 ET - Federal Reserve officials took the prospect of tax policy changes into account when projecting higher growth rates in next few years, Chairwoman Janet Yellen says. Official projections released following the Fed's meeting showed central bankers now see the economy growth 2.5% next year, up from 2.1% in September's projection. "My colleagues and I are in line with the general expectation among most economists that the type of tax changes that are likely to be enacted tend to provide some modest lift to GDP growth in the coming years," she says. (david.harrison@wsj.com)

1420 ET - Gold prices were up 1% in electronic trading to $1,254.10 a troy ounce after the Fed raised interest rates by 25 basis points. The vote to raise rates wasn't unanimous, with two officials dissenting, leading some investors to wonder whether lukewarm inflation will keep the central bank from raising rates as aggressively as expected next year. "The whole world expected this quarter point hike, and two members voted against it," says Ira Epstein of Linn & Associates. "I was a little surprised at that." Gold struggles to compete with yield-bearing investments when rates rise. Prices closed at $1,248.60 a troy ounce in regular trading on the Comex. (ira.iosebashvili@wsj.com)

1409 ET - Fed officials send a reassuring signal to Republicans hoping to ramp up economic growth next year through a major tax cut. Officials' median estimate for annual gross domestic product growth jumps to a rate of 2.5% in 2018 from 2.1% when they last met in September. Their growth estimate for 2017 also rises to 2.5% from 2.4%. Such a significant change to next year's forecast could mean officials now see fiscal stimulus boosting growth. At the same time, they expect inflation to hold steady, and they maintain their expectation of two interest-rate increases in 2018. That suggests that, at least for now, the Fed isn't anticipating such growth to drive up prices or require them to raise rates in response--welcome signs for GOP leaders who don't want to see the central bank cut off growth. (kate.davidson@wsj.com)

1405 ET - US government bonds tread water after the Federal Reserve raises interest rates in a widely anticipated move. The yield on the benchmark 10-year US Treasury note was recently at 2.375%, according to Tradeweb, compared with 2.378% before the release of the Fed decision and 2.403% on Tuesday. (akane.otani@wsj.com; @akaneotani)

1403 ET - Chicago Fed President Charles Evans and Minneapolis Fed President Neel Kashkari both cast dissenting votes at the Fed's December policy meeting, the first double dissent at a meeting this year and a sign of ongoing concern on the rate-setting Federal Open Market Committee over whether the economy is ready for higher borrowing costs given ongoing low inflation. Ahead of the December Fed meeting, Evans said his support for a rate rise would depend on signs that inflation and inflation expectations were increasing. His dissenting vote suggests the Chicago Fed president wasn't satisfied by the data he saw. Kashkari's dissenting vote comes as little surprise given his longstanding concern over weak inflation. The Minneapolis Fed president also dissented at the June and March meetings this year, when officials voted to increase borrowing costs. (harriet.torry@wsj.com; @HarrietTorry)

1404 ET - Economic projections released by the Fed show officials now expect economic growth to surge in the next few years, well past its estimate of long-term potential output. Officials also see the unemployment rate falling to 3.9% in 2018 and 2019, well below their estimate of full employment. Under textbook economic models, that should produce a surge in inflation leading to higher interest rates from the Fed. And yet the latest projections show inflation almost unchanged from earlier projections. As before, the Fed doesn't forecast inflation returning to its 2% target until 2019. And its projections for interest rates in 2018 and 2019 haven't changed from the September projections. How can we have faster growth and a hotter labor market without stronger inflation? This could be a sign from Fed officials that they're having doubts about the power of the Phillips curve. (david.harrison@wsj.com; @d_harrison)

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

December 13, 2017 16:51 ET (21:51 GMT)
   COfed : Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | namt : All Market Talk | ndjmt : Dow Jones Market Talk | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | nfiac : Fixed Income Asset Class News | nfxacb : Forex Asset Class Basic News | nfxacp : Forex Asset Class Premium News | nfxmt : Foreign Exchange Market Talk | e12 : Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter   REcana : Canada | usa : United States | namz : North America   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument DJDN000020171213edcd003fh  



 HDWall Street mixed as financials drag after Fed rate hike   WC602 words   PD13 December 2017   ET22:36   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2017 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved. 
   LPNEW YORK (Reuters) - The S&P 500 ended slightly lower on Wednesday pressured by the financial sector after the Federal Reserve announced a widely expected interest rate hike but kept its rate outlook for coming years even as it projected faster U.S. economic growth.

The quarter-percentage-point rise in the overnight lending rate, which marked the third hike this year, came along with an increase to the Fed's 2018 gross domestic product growth forecast to 2.5 percent from 2.1 percent.
   TDThe Dow and the Nasdaq ended higher but the S&P could not sustain gains in choppy trading after the Fed statement.

The S&P was dragged lower by a late-session tumble in bank stocks, which tend to get a profit boost from higher interest rates. The financial sector's <.SPSY> 1.3 percent drop for the day suggested, however, that investors may have expected a more hawkish Fed.

"It's a fairly dovish statement which is positive for risk assets," said Bill Stone, chief investment strategist at PNC Wealth Management in Philadelphia.

"Always the worry with the market is if the Fed pushes back too hard and takes away the punch bowl. It just doesn't seem that they're setting the table for that at all," he said.

The Dow Jones Industrial Average <.DJI> rose 80.63 points, or 0.33 percent, to end at 24,585.43, the S&P 500 <.SPX> lost 1.26 points, or 0.05 percent, to 2,662.85 and the Nasdaq Composite <.IXIC> added 13.48 points, or 0.2 percent, to 6,875.80.

The consumer staples sector <.SPLRCS> was the strongest of the S&P's 11 sectors with a 0.5 percent gain. The S&P utilities <.SPLRCU> sector pared gains after hitting a session high to end up 0.3 percent.

Investors were also keeping a sharp eye on progress in the Republicans' push for a U.S. tax law overhaul that would involve a corporate tax cut.

Shortly before the Fed news, congressional Republicans said they had reached a deal on tax legislation and U.S. President Donald Trump said he would back a corporate tax rate of 21 percent.

“The equities market is also reacting to the possibility that Congress may have a tax plan on the president’s desk by the end of the year,” said Quincy Krosby, chief market strategist, Prudential Financial, Newark, New Jersey.

Earlier in the day a Labor Department report showed underlying consumer inflation slowed in November, possibly affecting the pace at which the Fed hikes rates.

Investors also assessed Democrat Doug Jones' victory in a bitter fight for a U.S. Senate seat in deeply conservative Alabama on Tuesday. Some participants said his win could mean trouble for Trump's policy agenda as it narrows the Republicans' already slim majority in the Senate.

Advancing issues outnumbered declining ones on the NYSE by a 1.27-to-1 ratio; on Nasdaq, a 1.61-to-1 ratio favored advancers.

The S&P 500 posted 39 new 52-week highs and no new lows; the Nasdaq Composite recorded 67 new highs and 46 new lows.

Volume so far on U.S. exchanges was 6.77 billion shares, compared to the 6.53 billion average for the full session over the last 20 trading days.

(Additional reporting by Rodrigo Campos and Chuck Mikolajczak in New York, Rama Venkat Raman and Sruthi Shankar in Bengaluru; Editing by Arun Koyyur and James Dalgleish) 
   RFReleased: 2017-12-13T21:36:34.000Z   COfed : Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System   NSgpol : Domestic Politics | e1202 : Interest Rates | e1101 : Economic Growth | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCSERVICE:OUSBSM | SERVICE:ORTAO | SERVICE:OUS12 | SERVICE:RTRFLN | LANG:en-US | a | f | BACT | LEN | MKTREP | MTGFX | REP | STX | TOPNWS | USA   IPDBusiness | Economy | US | Bangalore | India | US-USA-STOCKS | USA | STOCKS   PUBThomson Reuters (Markets) LLC   ANDocument LBA0000020171213edcd00go1  



 SEEconomy   HDYellen's Final Rate Rise Draws Dissent Driven by Weak Inflation Fears; Neel Kashkari, Charles Evans vote against the decision to lift overnight target rate   BYBy Michael S. Derby    WC888 words   PD13 December 2017   ET21:53   SNWSJ Pro Central Banking   SCRSTPROCB   LAEnglish   CYCopyright © 2017, Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 
   LPJanet Yellen's penultimate meeting as Federal Reserve chairwoman saw the central bank chief deliver the fifth rate rise of her tenure to notable formal opposition, as some officials continued to worry weak inflation negates the need for action.

Ms. Yellen moves to close out her term—she steps down early next year—having faced about the same level of formal dissension as her predecessor Ben Bernanke. In the final tally, opposition to Ms. Yellen's preferred policies never really seemed to affect what the Fed did. But as is often the case with dissenting votes on the interest-rate-setting Federal Open Market Committee, opposing views helped illustrate the difficult choices and uncertainties policy makers have faced as they tried to move monetary policy away crisis-era settings.
   TDOn Wednesday, Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis President Neel Kashkari and Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago leader Charles Evans both voted against the decision to lift the central bank's overnight target rate to a range between 1.25% and 1.50%.

The two "no" votes weren't that much of a surprise. Mr. Kashkari, a new regional Fed bank president in his first-ever voting rotation on the rate-setting FOMC this year, has spent much of the year arguing the central bank's long-running inability to get inflation back up to its 2% target means no rate rises are needed.

Mr. Evans, who has led his bank since 2007, has spent much of the year sounding somewhat uncomfortable with the push to raise rates in the current inflation landscape. The December FOMC meeting represented the first time this year he has moved to formally break with colleagues about the right path for monetary policy.

The laserlike focus of markets and the media on the Fed, joined with an explosion of so-called Fedspeak, may have given the impression Ms. Yellen and Mr. Bernanke faces a more unruly FOMC. But history shows that isn't the case.

Mr. Bernanke, who led the Fed until from early 2006 until early 2014, oversaw 66 FOMC meetings in a tenure that spanned the start of the financial crisis, the crash and the Fed's extraordinary efforts to put the economy back on better footing. Experimentation with a host of never-before-tried policies like detailed guidance about the future of rates, extended periods of near-zero interest rates, financial-sector bailouts and three rounds of long-term bond buying ruffled a lot of feathers among Fed leaders.

Mr. Bernanke garnered 48 dissenting votes at 41 of the meetings. Sometimes they came in bulk, like the triple-dissent meetings held in August and September of 2011.

Ms. Yellen, in contrast, has presided over 31 FOMC meetings during her single, four-year term as chairwoman. Fifteen of those meetings have seen dissents, for a total of 22 "no" votes.

Over her term, a number of the votes against Ms. Yellen's preferred policy path came from officials who felt she wasn't moving quickly enough to take policy off its emergency footing. Officials like Kansas City Fed leader Esther George favored rate rises through much of 2016, fearing overly easy policy was setting the stage for a potential inflation surge and unstable markets. Neither of those fears have come to pass.

Ms. Yellen's first year on the job proved particularly contentious as the Fed slowly wound down it bond-buying campaign. Some officials wanted the Fed to signal a return to more normal policy sooner than was happening, while then Minneapolis Fed chief Narayana Kocherlakota worried the Fed was undermining confidence that inflation would rise back to 2%. Mr. Kocherlaktoa feared the Fed was being too hasty at moving away from ultra-easy policy.

Late 2015 and 2016 were also sticky times, as some officials wanted the Fed to start raising rates sooner than Ms. Yellen and the FOMC majority thought prudent.

Broad and sustained votes against the FOMC consensus have ebbed and flowed over history, and have tended to rise during challenging economic times. According to the St. Louis Fed, Fed leaders between 1934 and 1978 saw few dissenting votes. That changed during the high-inflation, low-growth world of G. William Miller through to the term of Paul Volcker, who broke the back of surging price pressures with then radical short-term interest rate increases.

Dissent cooled during Alan Greenspan's leadership between 1987 and 2006. The so-called Maestro was known for ruling the FOMC with an iron hand, pushing back against those who would publicly challenge his views.

Both Mr. Bernanke and Ms. Yellen were recognized for welcoming a more open policy debate relative to Mr. Greenspan, and both were strong supporters of officials explaining their positions to the world. They also recognized that dissenting votes showed the central bank wasn't beset by one-sided views of the world.

Write to Michael S. Derby at michael.derby@wsj.com

Read More

* Fed Raises Rates, Sticks to Forecast for 2018 Increases

* Fed's Kashkari Doesn't Want Rate Increases Until Inflation Shown to Be Rising

* Fed's Evans Says His Anxiety Over Low Inflation Is Growing
   COfrbch : Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago | fed : Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System   NSe1103 : Inflation/Prices | e12 : Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPCG/FED | N/CBK | N/CMR | N/DJCS | N/DJN | N/EMP | N/GENI | N/IEN | N/NRG | N/WER | R/NME | R/US   IPDDISSENT | EVANS | FEDERAL RESERVE | FOMC | INFLATION | INTEREST RATES | KASHKARI | VOTES | YELLEN | Charles Evans | Esther George | Greenspan, Alan | Janet Yellen | Kocherlakota, Narayana | Neel Kashkari | PRO | WSJ-PRO-CB | WSJ-PRO-NP | Central Banks | WSJPRO   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument RSTPROCB20171213edcd000xd  



 HDWRAPUP 3-U.S. core inflation slows, puts spotlight on 2018  interest rate  outlook   WC675 words   PD13 December 2017   ET20:25   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2017 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved. 
   LP(Updates with Fed rate decision)

* Consumer prices increase 0.4 percent in November
   TD* CPI rises 2.2 percent year-on-year

* Core CPI gains 0.1 percent; up 1.7 percent year-on-year

By Lucia Mutikani

WASHINGTON, Dec 13 (Reuters) - Underlying U.S. consumer inflation slowed in November, held down by weak healthcare costs and the biggest drop in apparel prices in nearly two decades, which could impact the pace at which the Federal Reserve raises interest rates next year.

Inflation has moderated for much of this year, leading to concern among some Fed officials that the factors holding back price pressures could prove more persistent. The U.S. central bank on Wednesday increased borrowing costs for a third time this year, encouraged by a tightening labor market and strengthening economy. It forecast three rate hikes in 2018.

"The lack of a sustained pickup in core CPI does make the Fed deliberations about the pace of monetary policy tightening next year more complicated," said Kathy Bostjancic, head of U.S. macro investor services at Oxford Economics in New York.

The Labor Department said its Consumer Price Index excluding the volatile food and energy components ticked up 0.1 percent also as prices for airline fares and household furnishing fell. The so-called core CPI advanced 0.2 percent in October.

As a result, the annual increase in the core CPI slowed to 1.7 percent in November from 1.8 percent in October.

The Fed has a 2 percent inflation target. The central bank's preferred inflation measure, the core personal consumption expenditures (PCE) price index, has consistently undershot its target for almost 5-1/2 years.

The overall CPI increased 0.4 percent in November after edging up 0.1 percent in October. That raised the year-on-year increase in the CPI to 2.2 percent from 2.0 percent in October.

Prices for U.S. Treasuries rose on the core CPI data and the Fed's interest rate decision, while the dollar fell against a basket of currencies. Stocks on Wall Street were trading higher.

FISCAL STIMULUS

Economists believe inflation will rise next year after Republicans in the U.S. Congress approved plans for sweeping tax cuts, including slashing the corporate income tax rate to about 20 percent from 35 percent. The fiscal stimulus will come at a time when the economy is almost at full employment.

"This expectation supports our forecast for the Fed to raise its policy rate four times next year after increasing it today," said Mickey Levy, chief economist for Americas and Asia at Berenberg Capital Markets in New York.

Last month, the cost of healthcare services slipped 0.1 percent, the first drop since May, with prices for doctor visits falling 0.8 percent. In the 12 months through November, the cost of doctor visits tumbled 1.8 percent, the biggest decline since records started in 1947.

Apparel prices dropped 1.3 percent, the largest fall since September 1998, after dipping 0.1 percent in October. Economists said an unseasonably warm November probably contributed to the decline in apparel prices, as well as competition from online retailers like Amazon.

"It was one of the warmest Novembers on record, which means that people would have bought proportionally less full-price winter clothing and more discounted summer/fall clothing," said Paul Ashworth, chief economist at Capital Economics in Toronto. "If we're right, clothing prices will snap back in December."

Owners' equivalent rent of primary residence gained 0.2 percent after rising 0.3 percent in October. Gasoline prices rebounded 7.3 percent after falling 2.4 percent in October.

Food prices were unchanged for a second straight month. Prices for new motor vehicles rose 0.3 percent after two straight monthly declines. There were also increases in prices of alcohol, mobile phone services and tobacco.

(Reporting by Lucia Mutikani; Editing by Andrea Ricci and Chizu Nomiyama) 
   RFReleased: 2017-12-13T20:25:44.000Z   COfed : Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System   NSecpin : Consumer Price Index | e1103 : Inflation/Prices | e1202 : Interest Rates | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCSERVICE:PSC | SERVICE:ZZ | SERVICE:C | SERVICE:LBY | SERVICE:D | SERVICE:GRO | SERVICE:E | SERVICE:MTL | SERVICE:DNP | SERVICE:G | SERVICE:SOF | SERVICE:ZD | SERVICE:GNS | SERVICE:BNX | SERVICE:UCDPTEST | SERVICE:M | SERVICE:PGE | SERVICE:RWS | SERVICE:O | SERVICE:RAST | SERVICE:CSA | SERVICE:OIL | SERVICE:RWSA | SERVICE:RNP | SERVICE:U | SERVICE:ABX | SERVICE:REULB | SERVICE:Z | SERVICE:AFA | SERVICE:RBN | SERVICE:FUN | LANG:en | OEC | OVR | CEN | ECI | GEN | INFL | INT | MCE | NEWS1 | PIA | POL | TOPCMB | TOPNWS | USA | WASH   IPDBusiness | Economy | Politics | US | Americas | Reports | North America | United States | Media type Graphics | USA-ECONOMY/ (WRAPUP 3) | Amazon.com Inc | USA | (WRAPUP 3)   PUBThomson Reuters (Markets) LLC   ANDocument LBA0000020171213edcd00jga  



 HDYou Don't Say: Treasury Yields Slip, Dow Gains 120 Points as Fed Raises Rates -- Barron's Blog   BYBy Ben Levisohn    WC397 words   PD13 December 2017   ET20:40   SNDow Jones Institutional News   SCDJDN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright © 2017, Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 
   LPTreasury yields have dipped, while the Dow Jones Industrial Average has risen, after the Federal Reserve raised its benchmark interest rate by a quarter point.

The Fed raised the federal funds rate to a range of 1.25% to 1.5%, no surprise there, and only Charles Evans and Neel Kashkari voted against raising rates today. The futures market was pricing in a 98.3% chance of a rate hike before the meeting today, according to B loomberg, down from a 100% chance yesterday. The Fed also said expects to raise rates three times next year, though I'm not sure anyone really believes it. "It's clear that the Fed thinks it can hike three more times next year," writes Luke Bartholomew, investment strategist at Aberdeen Standard Investments. "But that's a forecast that markets don't yet buy, and it's data more than rhetoric that will ultimately convince investors."
   TDIt wasn't only rates that changed. The Fed raised its 12-month growth forecasts for the U.S. economy to 2.5% in 2018, even as it acknowledged that inflation "is expected to remain somewhat below 2 percent in the near term." That's a change from past statements, but again, not much of a surprise given today's weaker-than-expected core inflation reading. And a dovish one too, says Evercore ISI's Dennis DeBusschere, since the central bankers increased their growth forecast but left their inflation forecast unchanged. "This is a tailwind for equities as it implies that growth has improved while inflation remains weak making the FOMC unlikely to tighten too quickly," he writes.

The markets are taking this as another sign that Goldilocks lives on: The 10-year yield has dipped 0.04 point to 2.36%, while the iShares 20+ Year Treasury Bond ETF ( TLT) has gained 0.6% to $127.16. The Dow Jones Industrial Average has climbed 122.23 points, or 0.5%, to 24,627.03, while the S&P 500 has advanced 0.2% to 2668.89. The Nasdaq Composite has risen 0.3% to 6883.45. 


 
 More at Barron's Income Investing blog, http://www.barrons.com/income-investing

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

December 13, 2017 14:40 ET (19:40 GMT)
   COfed : Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System   NSm11 : Equity Markets | e1202 : Interest Rates | e212 : Government Borrowing | ecat : Economic News | effund : Interbank Rate | ncmac : Commodities Asset Class News | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | nfiac : Fixed Income Asset Class News | e12 : Monetary Policy | e21 : Government Finance | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument DJDN000020171213edcd002te  



 HDUpdate: Fed Lifts U.S. Interest Rates, Still Expects 3 Hikes In 2018 -- MarketWatch   WC180 words   PD13 December 2017   ET20:05   SNDow Jones Institutional News   SCDJDN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright © 2017, Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 
   LPThe Federal Reserve on Wednesday raised a key short-term U.S. interest rate to a range of 1.25% to 1.5%, but in a sign of caution the central bank stuck to its earlier forecast for just three 1/4-point rate hikes in 2018. The Fed made no change to its inflation forecast, reflecting the persistent worry among some senior officials that price pressures could remain unusually soft despite the tightest labor market in almost two decades. Two Fed members voted against the rate hike in a 7-2 tally. The central bank did raise its GDP forecast for 2018 to 2.5% from 2.1%, indicating the Fed expects federal tax cuts to boost the economy next year. The bank also predicted unemployment would average 3.9% in both 2018 and 2019, down from the current 4.1% rate.

-Jeffry Bartash 
   TD
 For more from MarketWatch: http://www.marketwatch.com/newsviewer

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

December 13, 2017 14:05 ET (19:05 GMT)
   COfed : Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System   NSe12 : Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | effund : Interbank Rate | m131 : Money Markets | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | nfiac : Fixed Income Asset Class News | nfxacb : Forex Asset Class Basic News | nfxacp : Forex Asset Class Premium News | e1101 : Economic Growth | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | m13 : Money/Currency Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument DJDN000020171213edcd002q1  



 HD* Federal Reserve  Changes Fed Funds Range to 1.25% to 1.50%   WC1,870 words   PD13 December 2017   ET20:00   SNDow Jones Institutional News   SCDJDN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright © 2017, Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 
   LP13 Dec 2017 14:00 ET *Fed Raises Interest Rates, Eyes Continued Path of Increases In 2018

13 Dec 2017 14:00 ET *Fed: Economic Activity Has Been Rising At 'Solid Rate'
   TD13 Dec 2017 14:00 ET *Fed Expects Labor Market To Remain Strong

13 Dec 2017 14:00 ET *Fed: Annual Overall, Core Inflation Have Declined This Year, Running Below 2%

13 Dec 2017 14:00 ET *Fed: Market-Based Inflation Expectation Measures Remain Low

13 Dec 2017 14:00 ET *Fed: Survey-Based Inflation Expectation Measures Little Changed

13 Dec 2017 14:00 ET *Fed: Labor Market Has Continued To Strengthen

13 Dec 2017 14:00 ET *Fed: Job Gains Solid Through Hurricane-Related Fluctuations

13 Dec 2017 14:00 ET *Fed: Unemployment Rate Declined Further

13 Dec 2017 14:00 ET *Federal Reserve Changes Fed Funds Range to 1.25% to 1.50%

13 Dec 2017 14:00 ET *Fed Raises Interest Rates, Eyes Continued Path of Increases In 2018

13 Dec 2017 14:00 ET *Fed: Economic Activity Has Been Rising At 'Solid Rate'

13 Dec 2017 14:00 ET *Fed Expects Labor Market To Remain Strong

13 Dec 2017 14:00 ET *Fed: Annual Overall, Core Inflation Have Declined This Year, Running Below 2%

13 Dec 2017 14:00 ET *Fed: Market-Based Inflation Expectation Measures Remain Low

13 Dec 2017 14:00 ET *Fed: Survey-Based Inflation Expectation Measures Little Changed

13 Dec 2017 14:00 ET *Fed: Labor Market Has Continued To Strengthen

13 Dec 2017 14:00 ET *Fed: Job Gains Solid Through Hurricane-Related Fluctuations

13 Dec 2017 14:00 ET *Fed: Unemployment Rate Declined Further

13 Dec 2017 14:00 ET *Fed: Household Spending Expanding At Moderate Rate

13 Dec 2017 14:00 ET *Fed: Business Fixed Investment Growth Picked Up In Recent Quarters

13 Dec 2017 14:00 ET *Fed: Hurricane-Related Disruptions Not Materially Altered National Economic Outlook

13 Dec 2017 14:00 ET *Fed: Near-Term Risks to Outlook Appear Roughly Balanced

13 Dec 2017 14:00 ET *Fed: Inflation Expected To Remain Somewhat Below 2% In Near-Term

13 Dec 2017 14:00 ET *Fed Raises Discount Rate 0.25-Pt to 2.00%

13 Dec 2017 14:00 ET *FOMC: Voted 7-2 For Fed Funds Rate Action

13 Dec 2017 14:00 ET *Evans, Kashkari Vote Against Rate Increase, Preferred No Change In Rates

13 Dec 2017 14:00 ET *Fed Officials See Fed Funds Rate at a Median of 1.400% at End of 2017

13 Dec 2017 14:00 ET *Fed Officials See Fed Funds Rate at a Median of 2.100% at End of 2018

13 Dec 2017 14:00 ET *Fed Officials See Fed Funds Rate at a Median of 2.700% at End of 2019

13 Dec 2017 14:00 ET *Fed Officials See Fed Funds Rate at a Median of 3.100% at End of 2020

13 Dec 2017 14:00 ET *Fed Officials See Fed Funds Rate at a Median of 2.800% in Longer Run

13 Dec 2017 14:00 ET *Fed Keeps Policy Path Projections Unchanged In 2017, 2018, 2019

13 Dec 2017 14:00 ET *Fed Projects Two Rate Increases In 2020

13 Dec 2017 14:00 ET *Fed Holds Long-Run Interest Rate Projection Unchanged At 2.8%

13 Dec 2017 14:00 ET *Fed Raises 2018 GDP Projection to 2.5% From 2.1%

13 Dec 2017 14:00 ET *Fed Lowers Unemployment Rate Projections, Holds Full Employment Estimate Unchanged

13 Dec 2017 14:00 ET *Fed Raises 2017 Inflation Projection Slightly, Unchanged In Later Years

13 Dec 2017 14:00 ET *Fed Core Inflation Projections Unchanged

13 Dec 2017 14:00 ET *Fed Median GDP Projections: 2.5% in 2017, 2.5% in 2018, 2.1% in 2019, 2.0% in 2020, 1.8%% in Longer Run

13 Dec 2017 14:00 ET *Fed Median Inflation Projections: 1.7% in 2017, 1.9% in 2018, 2.0% in 2019, 2.0% in 2020, 2.0% in Longer Run

13 Dec 2017 14:00 ET *Fed Median Unemployment Projections: 4.1% in 2017, 3.9% in 2018, 3.9% in 2019, 4.0% in 2020, 4.6% in Longer Run

13 Dec 2017 14:00 ET  Fed Raises Interest Rates, Eyes Continued Path of Increases in 2018

By Nick Timiraos

WASHINGTON-The Federal Reserve said it would raise short-term interest rates for the third time this year and remained on track to chart a similar path next year, signaling continuity as the central bank enters a major leadership reshuffle.

Fed officials said they would increase their benchmark federal-funds rate by a quarter percentage point to a range between 1.25% and 1.5%. Officials revised up their projections for economic growth and said they expect to keep raising rates if the economy performs in line with their forecast.

Officials didn't significantly change projections about the path of interest rates or inflation even though they now expect the economy to grow faster, and the labor market to tighten further, than they did in projections released three months ago. Officials penciled in three quarter-point rate increases for next year, as they had in September, and two increases each in 2019 and 2020.

New projections show officials expect the economy to grow at a 2.5% rate this year and next, up from September projections of 2.4% and 2.1%, respectively. The Fed still expects the economy will grow at 1.8% over the long-run, and Wednesday's projections show officials now expect economic growth will surpass that level through 2020.

Officials didn't change their forecasts significantly around inflation, even though they now project the unemployment rate to fall to 3.9% in 2018 and 2019, down from prior forecasts of 4.1% and below the level that they expect should prevail over the long run, which was unchanged at 4.6%.

In its postmeeting statement, the Fed's rate-setting committee described the job market as strong. "The committee continues to expect that, with gradual adjustments in the stance of monetary policy, economic activity will expand at a moderate pace and labor market conditions will remain strong," the statement said.

Chicago Fed President Charles Evans joined Minneapolis Fed President Neel Kashkari in casting dissenting votes Wednesday because they wanted to hold rates steady.

The big question heading into their two-day meeting was how much Fed officials expected to lift rates in coming years. The prospect for new fiscal stimulus, combined with solid hiring and lofty asset values, could argue for picking up the pace to prevent the economy from overheating. But low inflation and modest wage growth could support the case for sticking with a very gradual approach.

By Thursday, the Fed will have raised rates by a quarter percentage-point five times since late 2015, after keeping them near zero for seven years. In October, the Fed also started shrinking its $4.5 trillion portfolio of bonds and other assets.

Since officials last met in early November, Congress has moved rapidly on legislation that would cut business and individual taxes by around $1.4 trillion over the next decade. Before this week, many Fed officials refrained from building into their forecasts much prospect of fiscal stimulus because it wasn't clear what Congress would pass.

House and Senate Republicans are reconciling different versions of tax bills that have passed their respective chambers with the goal of putting a unified plan before President Donald Trump to sign by Christmas.

Fed Chairwoman Janet Yellen told lawmakers last month the Fed wouldn't necessarily try to prevent the economy from growing more quickly so long as fiscal policy changes spur productivity growth, which has been historically weak over the past decade.

"Look, we welcome strong growth. The Fed is not trying to stifle growth," Ms. Yellen said. "We're worried about trends that could push inflation above our 2% objective."

Fed officials haven't said whether or to what degree they believe the specific provisions of the House and Senate bills would boost productivity, such as by encouraging capital formation and new business investment.

That calculus will be especially important now that the unemployment rate-at 4.1%, a 17-year low-is at or below the level that many Fed officials believe will generate faster inflation.

It hasn't so far, presenting a challenge for the Fed.

On one hand, inflation has run below its annual 2% target most of this year, reaching just 1.6% in October by the central bank's preferred gauge.

Another inflation measure, released Wednesday morning, showed a strong rise in energy prices but otherwise muted inflation in November.

On the other hand, with the economy so strong and more stimulus on the way, they don't want to hold rates too low for too long and cause price pressures to surge out of control or fuel asset bubbles and other financial imbalances.

Ms. Yellen told lawmakers last month modest wage increases and sluggish inflation pressures suggest "the labor market and the economy are not significantly overheated in spite of the fact that we have a very low unemployment rate."

Ms. Yellen repeated her view last month that recent low inflation readings reflect transitory factors and that as they fade, inflation will return to 2%.

But she also nodded to the possibility that the Fed's understanding of inflation is awry and that weak price pressures "could reflect something more persistent," she said.

Fed officials also are wrestling with the fact that the economy isn't responding to its rate moves as it did in the past, making it harder to discern the right policy path.

Fed increases in short-term rates used to tighten credit more broadly, causing bond yields to rise and boosting other borrowing costs such as for mortgages, credit cards and business loans. This year, instead, financial conditions have eased, with long-term bond yields drifting lower, stock prices rising to new highs and many consumer loan rates little changed.

Fed governor Jerome Powell is poised to take the lead on confronting these challenges as Ms. Yellen's successor after her term as chairwoman ends Feb. 3.

Mr. Powell was nominated last month to take the helm and is awaiting Senate confirmation, but should face no difficulty after a panel voted 22-1 last week to advance his nomination.

He has shown few signs of diverging sharply from Ms. Yellen on monetary policy but has indicated he could offer a lighter touch on financial regulation.

Ms. Yellen has said she would resign her seat on the Fed's seven-member board once her successor takes over, which would make her the third governor to leave within a year.

Mr. Trump has filled one vacancy on the board and moved to fill a second one, in addition to nominating Mr. Powell to become chairman. Mr. Trump has two more openings to fill now and will have another after Ms. Yellen leaves next year.

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

December 13, 2017 14:00 ET (19:00 GMT)
   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | effund : Interbank Rate | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m131 : Money Markets | m14 : Commodity Markets | m141 : Agricultural Commodity Markets | m142 : Metals Markets | ncmac : Commodities Asset Class News | nenac : Energy Asset Class News | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | nfiac : Fixed Income Asset Class News | nfxacb : Forex Asset Class Basic News | nfxacp : Forex Asset Class Premium News | nhotbn : Hot Business News | npred : Economic Predictions/Forecasts | ntab : Tables | ntesi : Essential Stock Market Information | ntop : Top Wire News | nttwn : Today's Top Wire News | e12 : Monetary Policy | m13 : Money/Currency Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | ndj : Dow Jones Top Stories | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | niwe : IWE Filter | redit : Selection of Top Stories/Trends/Analysis   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument DJDN000020171213edcd002nb  



 SEEconomy   HD Federal Reserve  Expected to Raise Rates; The bigger questions for the meeting ending today concern the path of policy in 2018 after a tax cut may have been signed into law   BYBy Nick Timiraos    WC874 words   PD13 December 2017   ET19:57   SNWSJ Pro Central Banking   SCRSTPROCB   LAEnglish   CYCopyright © 2017, Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 
   LPThe Federal Reserve is likely to raise short-term interest rates by a quarter percentage point after its two-day policy meeting concludes Wednesday, the fifth such increase since the Fed began raising rates from near zero two years ago. Officials also will release new projections for unemployment, inflation, economic growth and interest rates. The central bank will release its statement and the forecasts at 2 p.m. EST, and Fed Chairwoman Janet Yellen will take questions from the press at 2:30 p.m. Here's what to watch:

Taxing Dilemmas
   TDHouse and Senate lawmakers have moved rapidly to pass tax-cut legislation that could add $1.4 trillion to budget deficits over a 10-year period before factoring in any additional revenue from stronger economic growth. Since the two chambers haven't reconciled their separate bills yet, Fed officials might not have enough information to forecast how the economy will respond. But they probably have enough information to expect more fiscal stimulus than they did in projections released earlier this year.

Their new economic projections will show whether they expect faster economic growth, higher inflation, lower unemployment or a more aggressive path of interest-rate increases as a result. Ms. Yellen likely will field questions on the issue at her press conference.

Inflation: The Transitory Story?

The Fed is likely to announce it will raise its benchmark rate to a range between 1.25% and 1.5% despite little evidence of a pickup in inflation, which softened unexpectedly earlier this year. Annual inflation nosed above the Fed's 2% target in February, but was just 1.6% in October by the Fed's preferred gauge.

Ms. Yellen has said she expects soft inflation to prove temporary, particularly given continued declines in the unemployment rate and an economy growing at an annual rate between 2.5% and 3%. Officials' new projections will show whether they still expect inflation to hit 2% by 2019, as they did in September. And Ms. Yellen can expound on the inflation outlook at her press conference.

Watch also to see if Minneapolis Fed President Neel Kashkari again votes against the rate increase because of low inflation, and whether anyone else joins him in dissent.

Financial Conditions

While soft inflation means some Fed officials want to go slower on rate increases, easier financial conditions and concerns about rising asset values provide ammunition for those who want to keep up—or pick up—the pace. Each time the Fed has moved to make monetary policy a little less easy this year, including by starting to shrink its big bond portfolio, long-term rates have stayed low or declined while stock prices have moved higher.

Ms. Yellen in the past has put more emphasis on labor-market indicators, such as the unemployment rate, in arguing for the Fed to gradually reverse its postcrisis stimulus measures. Watch what Ms. Yellen says about financial stability risks and the implications for the path of rates.

How Far From Neutral

With another rate increase, the Fed would be just a few more moves away from neutral, or the level at which it is neither stimulating or slowing growth. Fed officials expect this neutral level to rise in the coming years, and one of the big questions at this meeting concerns the path of rates in 2018 and 2019. With the Fed's portfolio slowly shrinking, so-called policy normalization has taken several steps forward this year. Watch the new projections to see how much officials believe interest rates need to rise from here and over what period of time.

Parting Reflections

President Donald Trump has nominated Fed governor Jerome Powell to succeed Ms. Yellen in February, breaking with recent precedent: The previous three Fed chairmen were all reappointed by presidents from the opposite party that put them in office.

The central bank is set to gain several new policy makers next year. The seven-member Washington-based board of governors now has three vacancies, before Ms. Yellen's planned departure in February, and the New York and Richmond reserve banks will get new presidents.

Ms. Yellen's press conference Wednesday is her last such scheduled appearance before her term ends Feb. 3, and she could have an opportunity to reflect on her extensive experience at the central bank as chairwoman, vice chairwoman, president of the San Francisco Fed, a governor and a staff economist. With the unemployment rate at 4.1% in November, Ms. Yellen is set to leave the Fed at a time when the thorniest policy issues involve how to keep the economy on an even keel and how to prepare for the next downturn.

Write to Nick Timiraos at nick.timiraos@wsj.com

Related

* Meeting Keeps a Lid on Stocks

* Faster Pace of Rate Increases Could Rattle Markets

* Economists See Three Fed Rate Increases in 2018 

* As the Fed Deliberates, Amazon Is Making Its Job More Difficult

* Economists Give High Marks to Departing Fed Chairwoman Janet Yellen

* Heard on the Street: The Fed Versus Tax Cuts
   COfed : Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System   INi814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services | i81401 : Central Banking   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | e1101 : Economic Growth | gpol : Domestic Politics | e12 : Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPCG/FED | I/BNK | M/FCL | N/CBK | N/CBP | N/CMR | N/DJN | N/EMP | N/GEN | N/GENI | N/IEN | N/PLT | R/NME | R/US   IPDFED | FED DECEMBER MEETING | FED DECISION | FED MEETING | FED RATES | FOMC | FOMC MEETING | YELLEN | Donald Trump | Janet Yellen | Jerome Powell | Neel Kashkari | ALERTABLE | PRO | SYND | WSJ-PRO-CB | WSJ-PRO-WSJ.com | Central Banks | WSJ.com   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument RSTPROCB20171213edcd0005l  



 HDNews Highlights: Top Global Markets News of the Day   WC421 words   PD13 December 2017   ET17:00   SNDow Jones Institutional News   SCDJDN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright © 2017, Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 
   LP
 
U.S. Economic Expansion Could Become Longest on Record 
 

Forecasters are increasingly optimistic the U.S. economic expansion could continue beyond the 2020 presidential election, aided by Republican tax legislation that is expected to lift growth. 
   TDFederal Reserve Expected to Raise Rates 
 

The Federal Reserve is likely to raise short-term interest rates after its policy meeting concludes Wednesday, the fifth such increase since the Fed began raising rates from near zero two years ago. 


 
U.S. Consumer Prices Rose 0.4% in November 
 

U.S. consumer prices rose in November, propelled by a rise in energy prices, while underlying inflation pressures showed signs of moderation. 


 
Democrat Doug Jones Wins Alabama Senate Seat 
 

Democrat Doug Jones scored an upset win in a deeply Republican state, capturing the U.S. Senate seat in Alabama in a special election that drove a wedge within the Republican party and gave Democrats another burst of momentum ahead of the 2018 midterm races. 


 
OPEC Oil Output Falls to Six-Month Low but U.S. Fills Gap 
 

OPEC production fell to its lowest in six months but rival U.S. production was surging faster than expected, meaning oil markets may not rebalance before the end of 2018, the oil cartel said in its closely watched monthly oil report. 


 
In Tax Plan's Fine Print, Banks Find a Problem 
 

As the U.S. Congress attempts to hammer out a final tax plan, Wall Street is fighting to limit the scope of a provision meant to discourage companies from sending money overseas to avoid taxes. 


 
U.S. Stocks Tick Higher Ahead of Fed's Decision 
 

U.S. stocks edged higher Wednesday ahead of a key update from the Federal Reserve on its economic and interest-rate projections. 


 
Sluggish Inflation Could Slow Fed's Plans for Raising Rates Next Year 
 

Inflation is the wild card that could change the number of interest-rate increases Federal Reserve officials pencil in for 2018. 


 
Oil Advances on Supply Disruption 
 

Oil prices nudged higher Wednesday, with Brent underpinned by a supply disruption in the North Sea, which is expected to trigger further reductions in global oil inventories. 


 
HFR Launches Cryptocurrency Index as Fund Managers Eye Red-Hot Sector 
 

Chicago-based data group HFR is launching an index of hedge funds that invest in cryptocurrencies, in a sign of how managers are increasingly eyeing these assets as a way of boosting flagging returns.

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

December 13, 2017 11:00 ET (16:00 GMT)
   COfed : Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | gvote : Elections | gpol : Domestic Politics | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | nfiac : Fixed Income Asset Class News | nhhour : Headlines of the Hour | e12 : Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | ncat : Content Types | ndj : Dow Jones Top Stories | nfact : Factiva Filters | ntop : Top Wire News | redit : Selection of Top Stories/Trends/Analysis   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument DJDN000020171213edcd0023e  



 HDNews Highlights: Top Global Markets News of the Day   WC403 words   PD13 December 2017   ET15:00   SNDow Jones Institutional News   SCDJDN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright © 2017, Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 
   LP
 
U.S. Consumer Prices Rose 0.4% in November 
 

U.S. consumer prices rose in November, propelled by a rise in energy prices, while underlying inflation pressures showed signs of moderation. 
   TDFederal Reserve Expected to Raise Rates 
 

The Federal Reserve is likely to raise short-term interest rates after its policy meeting concludes Wednesday, the fifth such increase since the Fed began raising rates from near zero two years ago. 


 
Democrat Doug Jones Wins Alabama Senate Seat 
 

Democrat Doug Jones scored an upset win in a deeply Republican state, capturing the U.S. Senate seat in Alabama in a special election that drove a wedge within the Republican party and gave Democrats another burst of momentum ahead of the 2018 midterm races. 


 
OPEC Oil Output Falls to Six-Month Low but U.S. Fills Gap 
 

OPEC production fell to its lowest in six months but rival U.S. production was surging faster than expected, meaning oil markets may not rebalance before the end of 2018, the oil cartel said in its closely watched monthly oil report. 


 
In Tax Plan's Fine Print, Banks Find a Problem 
 

As the U.S. Congress attempts to hammer out a final tax plan, Wall Street is fighting to limit the scope of a provision meant to discourage companies from sending money overseas to avoid taxes. 


 
Fed Meeting Keeps a Lid on Stocks 
 

Stocks were locked in narrow ranges ahead of a key update from the Federal Reserve on its economic and interest rate projections. 


 
Sluggish Inflation Could Slow Fed's Plans for Raising Rates Next Year 
 

Inflation is the wild card that could change the number of interest-rate increases Federal Reserve officials pencil in for 2018. 


 
Oil Advances on Supply Disruption 
 

Oil prices nudged higher Wednesday, with Brent underpinned by a supply disruption in the North Sea, which is expected to trigger further reductions in global oil inventories. 


 
In Bitcoin, Commodity Traders Try to Revive Heady Days 
 

Traders weary of modest returns in commodity markets are now rushing into the booming world of bitcoin, seeking to mint money in one of the riskiest assets. 


 
After Bitcoin Futures, an ETF Could Be Next 
 

The debut of bitcoin futures trading this week is rejuvenating efforts to list the first exchange-traded fund linked to the cryptocurrency.

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

December 13, 2017 09:00 ET (14:00 GMT)
   COfed : Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System   NSecpin : Consumer Price Index | e1202 : Interest Rates | e1103 : Inflation/Prices | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | nfiac : Fixed Income Asset Class News | nhhour : Headlines of the Hour | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | ndj : Dow Jones Top Stories | nfact : Factiva Filters | ntop : Top Wire News | redit : Selection of Top Stories/Trends/Analysis   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument DJDN000020171213edcd001s7  



 HDGlobal Forex and Fixed Income Roundup: Market Talk   WC1,300 words   PD13 December 2017   ET10:23   SNDow Jones Institutional News   SCDJDN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright © 2017, Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 
   LPThe latest Market Talks covering FX and Fixed Income. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

0822 GMT - While the GOP losing the Alabama seat will halve its Senate majority, "this will not stop the passage of tax-reform legislation," predicts RBC. With needs to certify the election results and other steps, it could be until January before Doug Jones is sworn in. Republicans have been hoping to get a bill passed through both sides of Congress before Christmas. (olga.cotaga@wsj.com; @OlgaCotaga)
   TD0910 GMT - U.K. jobs data is due at 0930 GMT and could boost sterling if wages pick up as unemployment remains low. GBP/USD last up 0.13% at 1.3340, EUR/GBP down 0.1% at 0.8802. U.K. wage growth has remained well below headline inflation, which rose to 3.1% in November, but ING says if wages are "moving in the right direction," this would be positive for sterling. The consensus forecast in a WSJ poll is for average earnings growth excluding bonuses to remain at 2.2% in the three months to October on an annual basis, though some analysts forecast a pick-up in average weekly earnings. The unemployment rate is seen falling to 4.2% from 4.3%. But RBC notes low wage growth relative to inflation means "real incomes continue to be squeezed." (olga.cotaga@wsj.com; @OlgaCotaga)

0901 GMT - Amundi Asset Management has a constructive view on inflation-linked bonds in Europe for 2018. Amundi bases this positive view on its expectations that eurozone inflation break-even rates will normalize in 2018 from still "very depressed" levels and on its "relatively confident" stance about the gradual rise in core inflation in the single currency area. (emese.bartha@wsj.com; @EmeseBartha)

0854 GMT - Julius Baer's valuation "reflects the company's earnings potential," Goldman Sachs says as it downgrades the Swiss bank to neutral from buy. "We see 13% upside compared to a sector average of 9%," analysts say. However, GS says that the bank's capital generation has been strong, and solid operating trends show that in 2017 it has started reaping the benefit of its hiring expansions. Shares in Julius Baer trade down 0.7% at CHF57.10. (pietro.lombardi@dowjones.com; @pietrolombard10)

0836 GMT - Potential of tighter monetary policy often helps a country's currency value. But it could hurt the Indian rupee as it's more susceptible to foreign inflows than peers. The currency is up some 5% versus the dollar this year, helped by international investors buying Indian stocks and bonds. Rate cuts have actually have sent the rupee higher in the past, notes Mizuho Bank's Wei Liang Chang, as growth prospects attracted foreign capital. But with inflation reaccelerating, that "effectively closes off any scope for further RBI rate cuts in the near-term." The dollar is down 0.2% today versus the rupee as India's Sensex stock benchmark is off the same. (kenan.machado@wsj.com)

0825 GMT - Iceland's central bank is widely expected to keep its key policy rate unchanged at 4.25% on Wednesday. "Although a rate cut is not out of the question, economic and inflation developments have been in line with [the central bank's] expectations," economists at Islandsbanki say in a note to clients. They forecast no change in the policy rate in the near term, but say that the scope for a rate cut will increase in the course of next year as growth becomes more sluggish and the output gap narrows. The analysts add "there could be room for an even larger policy rate cut" in 2019. (nina.adam@wsj.com)

0812 GMT - The FTSE 100 opens lower as the market focuses on the U.S. Federal Reserveinterest rate decision and U.K. job data. London's blue-chip index stands one point down at 7499.4 in early deals. "The market expects a 25-basis point rate rise and this is pretty much completely priced in," says Jasper Lawler at London Capital Group. "Investors will pay more attention to how the Fed views the U.S. economy in 2018." In the U.K., average hourly wages are tipped to have risen 2.5% in the three months to October, up 0.3% from the three months to September. Dixons Carphone PLC rises 4.6% even as first-half pretax profit fell 62% and the iPhone X launch pushed some sales to the second half. (philip.waller@wsj.com)

0805 GMT - Singapore's move to slightly lower the supply of new residential units in 1H under its land-sale program indicates the government's "cautious" line on the property market, says Cushman & Wakefield. The government released a list of land parcels to be auctioned for private residential and mixed-use purposes under a government program that can yield 8,045 private residential units. The potential from 2H17 sales was 8,125. The central bank in late November warned against excessive exuberance in property market and flagged oversupply risk, due mainly to the buoyant collective sales this year. (saurabh.chaturvedi@wsj.com; @journosaurabh) -0-

0803 GMT - Denmark may decide to launch a new 30-year nominal government bond or a new 10-year inflation-linked bond in 2018, alongside an expected increase in government bond issuance, says Arne Lohmann Rasmussen, head of fixed income research at Danske. Danske expects Denmark's government bond issuance to increase to around DKK80 billion from this year's target of DKK65 billion. Denmark's longest-dated government bond is due in November 2039, while its only inflation-linked bond is due in November 2023. The Danish debt management office is expected to publish its funding plans later in December. (emese.bartha@wsj.com; @EmeseBartha)

0803 GMT - Indian government-bond yields look set to climb more in the wake of November's bigger-than-expected inflation jump, says STCI Primary Dealer. The market maker in government bonds adds, "Hardening in inflationary pressures presents an unpleasant surprise as it stokes fears of a rate hike." Pressure was already building due to concerns that state-government finances could weaken if they choose to announce big farm-loan waivers or pay increases to match the one announced by the federal government for its workers. Meanwhile, banking-system cash availability has been contracting. As a result, 10-year yields could get as high as 7.3%, says STCI, from the current 7.2% and 7.02% before the RBI's decision last week to leave rates unchanged. (anant.kala@wsj.com)

0700 GMT - After trending higher through much of Asian trading, euro-dollar is back to even on the day as the Alabama election results apparently get moved aside ahead of the Fed's pronouncements. RBC isn't expecting forecast changes, predicting that will wait until March--when the changes in tax policy should be known. Meanwhile, "Yellen's press conference should prove to be a non-event." Also on tap today in the US is November CPI. (olga.cotaga@wsj.com; @OlgaCotaga)

0759 GMT - Danske expects Denmark's issuance of government bonds to increase to around DKK80 billion in 2018 from this year's target of DKK65 billion. The government now expects to spend DKK42.5 billion on social housing, more than its earlier forecast of DKK9 billion. Arne Lohmann Rasmussen, head of fixed income research at Danske, says he expects less than half of the additional DKK33.5 billion will need will be financed via the issuance of government bonds. (emese.bartha@wsj.com; @EmeseBartha)

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

December 13, 2017 04:23 ET (09:23 GMT)
   NSe1104 : Personal Income/Average Earnings | e1202 : Interest Rates | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e211 : Government Budget/Taxation | gpol : Domestic Politics | m132 : Foreign Exchange Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | namt : All Market Talk | ndjmt : Dow Jones Market Talk | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | nfiac : Fixed Income Asset Class News | nfxacb : Forex Asset Class Basic News | nfxacp : Forex Asset Class Premium News | nfxmt : Foreign Exchange Market Talk | npred : Economic Predictions/Forecasts | e12 : Monetary Policy | e21 : Government Finance | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | m13 : Money/Currency Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter   REden : Denmark | uk : United Kingdom | usal : Alabama | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | nordz : Nordic Countries | scandz : Scandinavia | usa : United States | uss : Southern U.S. | weurz : Western Europe   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument DJDN000020171213edcd000vq  



 HD3 things to watch for from the  Federal Reserve  on Wednesday   BYBy MARTIN CRUTSINGER    CRAP Economics Writer   WC1,016 words   PD13 December 2017   ET09:01   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2017.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved. 
   LPWASHINGTON (AP) — On the day when Janet Yellen will hold her final news conference as Federal Reserve chair, the Fed has left little doubt what it plans to do Wednesday: Raise its benchmark interest rate for the third time this year.

The increase would be in line with the series of incremental rate hikes the Fed has been making to keep up with a steadily rising U.S. economy. Over time, the rate increases could mean somewhat more expensive business and consumer loans, including mortgages.
   TDBut investors have barely blinked at the prospect of higher rates. The financial markets appear confident that the economy remains vigorous enough to withstand slightly higher borrowing costs.

It's a testament to how far the economy has come: In the midst of the 2008 financial crisis, the Fed slashed its key rate to a record low near zero — and then kept it there for seven years to support a fragile economy that had endured the Great Recession. The central bank finally raised rates modestly in December 2015 and then again in December 2016 and in March and June this year. Even so, the benchmark rate remains in a still-low range of 1 percent to 1.25 percent.

Investors seeking clues about what the Fed may do in the coming months will scrutinize its updated economic outlook Wednesday and assess Yellen's remarks in her last meeting with reporters before Jerome Powell succeeds her in February.

Here are three things to watch for after the Fed's meeting ends:

___

STATE OF THE ECONOMY

The Fed will update its economic outlook, which it does four times a year. The outlook includes its projections for inflation, unemployment, economic growth and the path of rate increases. Since the Fed's last update in September, Congress has moved to the edge of passing a tax bill that could have far-reaching consequences. Some analysts say the tax cuts could slightly raise economic growth but also swell federal deficits, which might eventually compel government spending cuts.

Analysts will be watching to see whether the prospect of an economic stimulus, in the form of $1.5 trillion in tax reductions over a decade, leads the Fed to cast a brighter outlook for the economy. If so, that, in turn, could make it likelier that the Fed would decide at some point to accelerate its rate increases.

In September, the Fed projected economic growth, as measured by the gross domestic product, at 2.4 percent this year but then slowing over the next three years until reaching 1.8 percent growth in 2020. That's far below the expectations of Trump, who has boasted that his economic program would double the lackluster 2 percent average growth during the Obama years to 4 percent annual GDP growth or better.

The Fed's forecast in September had estimated that unemployment would be 4.3 percent at year's end. The rate has already reached a 17-year low of 4.1 percent. The Fed also put its long-term unemployment rate — the level it sees as achieving its goal of maximum employment — at 4.6 percent. If the Fed lowers that figure, it could suggest that the policymakers are willing to accept lower unemployment without worrying about inflation.

Likewise, the Fed target for average annual inflation is 2 percent. Yet inflation has remained below that level for more than five years. Fed officials have blamed temporary factors for the slowdown. But analysts will watch to see whether the Fed reduces its inflation forecast or still projects that it can achieve its 2 percent target.

___

DOT PLOTS

The Fed will issue a diagram showing where each official expects to see the path of interest rates in coming years. These forecasts appear as dots representing the anonymous projections of each Fed policymaker. Analysts study any shifts in the so-called dot plot for signals about the Fed's likely rate plans.

Powell stressed during his confirmation hearing that he planned to continue Yellen's gradual approach to raising rates. Many economists expect the Powell Fed to raise rates three more times in 2018. But some predict four hikes next year on the belief that the Fed will feel compelled to accelerate its rate increases to prevent the economy, fueled by Republican tax cuts, from triggering high inflation.

___

YELLEN'S GOODBYE

The Fed will hold one more policy meeting before Yellen's four-year term ends Feb. 3, but Wednesday will mark her final quarterly news conference as chair. Yellen has also said that she will give up her board seat once Powell is confirmed by the Senate as the next chairman.

Still, she will likely face a flurry of questions from reporters trying to determine how the Fed might respond to chronically slow inflation in 2018. Fed officials have spent much of 2017 debating what the puzzling slowdown in inflation might be signifying about the economy. Yellen is certain to be asked about that debate.

Yellen, the first woman to lead the nation's central bank, will likely face questions about Trump's decision to break with a long tradition of offering a sitting Fed chairman a second four-year term. Trump chose Powell rather than renominate Yellen — as a way, he acknowledged, to put his own stamp on the Fed.

At her final news conference, many Fed watchers say it's unlikely that Yellen will deviate from her typically cautious demeanor, in part out of concern that in speaking her mind, she might jeopardize what she is hoping will be a smooth handover to Powell.
   ARTFILE - In this Wednesday, Nov. 29, 2017, file photo, Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen attends a hearing of the Federal Reserve Board Joint Economic Committee, on Capitol Hill in Washington. Investors may not be sure about what the central bank might have in store for 2018, and they’ll look to Yellen’s final news conference as Fed chair Wednesday, Dec. 13, 2017, for clues. (AP Photo/Jacquelyn Martin, File)    COfed : Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System   INibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | e211 : Government Budget/Taxation | reqrbc : Suggested Reading   Banking/Credit | e12 : Monetary Policy | e21 : Government Finance | ecat : Economic News | redit : Selection of Top Stories/Trends/Analysis | reqr : Suggested Reading   Industry News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCf   IPDUS | Fed | 3 | Things | to | Watch | For | BC-US--Fed-3 Things to Watch For | National | GOVERNMENT_FIGURE | PERSON | Janet Yellen | Business | General news | Central banking | Banking and credit | Financial services | Central bank interest rates | Monetary policy | Economic policy | Economy | Government business and finance | Government and politics | Government policy | Economic outlook | Financial crisis | Financial markets | National taxes | Government taxation and revenue | Government finance | National governments | Inflation | Prices | Economic growth | Spot Development | F Level Ds (9----) | AP Business News (F Wire)   PUBThe Associated Press   ANDocument APRS000020171213edcd009qa  



 HDNews Highlights: Top Global Markets News of the Day   WC411 words   PD13 December 2017   ET09:00   SNDow Jones Institutional News   SCDJDN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright © 2017, Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 
   LP
 
Dollar Falls After Alabama Vote; Asia Stocks Lack Direction 
 

The U.S. dollar dropped to session lows after Democrat Doug Jones won the Alabama Senate race, trimming the GOP's majority in the chamber to one seat. 
   TD
 
Sluggish Inflation Could Slow Fed's Plans for Raising Rates Next Year 
 

Inflation is the wild card that could change the number of interest-rate increases Federal Reserve officials pencil in for 2018. 


 
As the Fed Deliberates, Amazon Is Making Its Job More Difficult 
 

Web-driven comparison shoppers are keeping a lid on inflation and weakening retailers' pricing power, complicating the Federal Reserve's deliberations on how much and how fast to raise interest rates. 


 
Economists See Three Fed Rate Rises Next Year, Lower Unemployment 
 

Private economists expect the Federal Reserve to raise interest rates after its meeting Wednesday and then lift them three times in 2018 and twice in 2019, amid a strengthening economy and a falling unemployment rate. 


 
A Faster Pace of Fed Rate Increases Could Rattle Markets 
 

Investors have greeted the Federal Reserve's string of interest rate increases with some of the most docile market conditions in years, a sign that they could be in for a shock if the central bank decides to ramp up the pace of rate rises next year. 

EU and Japan Join U.S. in Criticizing China at WTO Summit 
 

The U.S., the European Union and Japan agreed on Tuesday to increase pressure on countries like China that subsidize domestic companies and require foreign firms to transfer technology to local counterparts. 


 
U.S. Criticizes Germany's Support of New Russian Natural-Gas Line 
 

The top State Department official overseeing Europe offered harsh words for Germany over the country's continued support for a new Russian gas pipeline to Europe. 


 
Investors Pledge Cuts to Fossil-Fuel Commitments at Paris Meeting 
 

Global institutions pledged to cut financing of fossil-fuel projects at a summit in Paris, backing French President Emmanuel Macron's call for the private sector to do more to combat greenhouse-gas emissions. 


 
RBA Warns Bitcoin A Speculative Mania 
 

Australia's central bank has warned volatility around bitcoin amounts to "speculative mania," adding it was likely to be a vehicle supporting illegal activity. 

Bank Indonesia Is Expected to Stand Pat on Rates 
 

Bank Indonesia will likely keep interest rates unchanged on Thursday.

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

December 13, 2017 03:00 ET (08:00 GMT)
   COfed : Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | gpol : Domestic Politics | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | nfiac : Fixed Income Asset Class News | nhhour : Headlines of the Hour | e12 : Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | ncat : Content Types | ndj : Dow Jones Top Stories | nfact : Factiva Filters | ntop : Top Wire News | redit : Selection of Top Stories/Trends/Analysis   REusa : United States | usal : Alabama | namz : North America | uss : Southern U.S.   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument DJDN000020171213edcd000ne  



 HDNews Highlights: Top Global Markets News of the Day   WC415 words   PD13 December 2017   ET07:00   SNDow Jones Institutional News   SCDJDN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright © 2017, Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 
   LP
 
Dollar Falls After Alabama Vote; Asia Stocks Lack Direction 
 

The U.S. dollar dropped to session lows after Democrat Doug Jones won the Alabama Senate race against Republican Roy Moore, trimming the GOP's majority in the chamber to one seat. 
   TD
 
Sluggish Inflation Could Slow Fed's Plans for Raising Rates Next Year 
 

Inflation is the wild card that could change the number of interest-rate increases Federal Reserve officials pencil in for 2018. 


 
As the Fed Deliberates, Amazon Is Making Its Job More Difficult 
 

Web-driven comparison shoppers are keeping a lid on inflation and weakening retailers' pricing power, complicating the Federal Reserve's deliberations on how much and how fast to raise interest rates. 


 
Economists See Three Fed Rate Rises Next Year, Lower Unemployment 
 

Private economists expect the Federal Reserve to raise interest rates after its meeting Wednesday and then lift them three times in 2018 and twice in 2019, amid a strengthening economy and a falling unemployment rate. 


 
A Faster Pace of Fed Rate Increases Could Rattle Markets 
 

Investors have greeted the Federal Reserve's string of interest rate increases with some of the most docile market conditions in years, a sign that they could be in for a shock if the central bank decides to ramp up the pace of rate rises next year. 

EU and Japan Join U.S. in Criticizing China at WTO Summit 
 

The U.S., the European Union and Japan agreed on Tuesday to increase pressure on countries like China that subsidize domestic companies and require foreign firms to transfer technology to local counterparts. 


 
U.S. Criticizes Germany's Support of New Russian Natural-Gas Line 
 

The top State Department official overseeing Europe offered harsh words for Germany over the country's continued support for a new Russian gas pipeline to Europe. 


 
Investors Pledge Cuts to Fossil-Fuel Commitments at Paris Meeting 
 

Global institutions pledged to cut financing of fossil-fuel projects at a summit in Paris, backing French President Emmanuel Macron's call for the private sector to do more to combat greenhouse-gas emissions. 


 
RBA Warns Bitcoin A Speculative Mania 
 

Australia's central bank has warned volatility around bitcoin amounts to "speculative mania," adding it was likely to be a vehicle supporting illegal activity. 

Bank Indonesia Is Expected to Stand Pat on Rates 
 

Bank Indonesia will likely keep interest rates unchanged on Thursday.

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

December 13, 2017 01:00 ET (06:00 GMT)
   COfed : Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | gpol : Domestic Politics | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | nfiac : Fixed Income Asset Class News | nhhour : Headlines of the Hour | e12 : Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | ncat : Content Types | ndj : Dow Jones Top Stories | nfact : Factiva Filters | ntop : Top Wire News | redit : Selection of Top Stories/Trends/Analysis   REusa : United States | usal : Alabama | namz : North America | uss : Southern U.S.   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument DJDN000020171213edcd000ew  
 Page 1 of 1     © 2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.


 

 Page 1     © 2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.

