 
HD Federal Budget Deal,  Interest Rate  Cut Send Markets Soaring    BY Samuel Goldreich, The Washington Times    WC655 words   PD16 October 1998   SNKRTBN Knight-Ridder Tribune Business News:The Washington Times   SCKRTBN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright (C) 1998 KRTBN Knight Ridder Tribune Business News; Source: World Reporter (TM)
   LP Knight Ridder/Tribune Business News 

 Oct. 16--The stock market soared yesterday on the double dose of good news provided by a surprise Federal Reserve cut in interest rates and a deal to pass a federal budget. 
   TD The Dow Jones Industrial Average closed up 330.58 points, at 8,299.36. That was the third-biggest point gain ever for the blue chip index, but it did not rank among the best performances in terms of percentage increases. 

 Stocks surged strongly after the Fed announced its second quarter-point cut in the overnight loan rate between banks since Sept. 29. The Fed also cut the discount rate on its own loans to banks by a quarter point for the second time in a month. Several banks followed yesterday with cuts in their prime rate to their best corporate customers. 

 The surprise news spurred the Dow to its best closing level since Aug. 26. The technology-heavy Nasdaq Composite Index climbed 70.08, or 4.6 percent, to 1,611.05 and the broader Standard & Poor's 500 Index increased 41.97, or 4.2 percent, to 1,047.50. 

 The Fed normally cuts interest rates during meetings of its Federal Open Market Committee, which was not scheduled to meet until Nov. 17. 

 The market reacted more favorably to yesterday's rate cut than it did last month, when the Dow fell 28.32 to 8,080.52 because investors were disappointed that Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan did not engineer more stimulus to protect the economy from overseas financial turmoil. 

 Yesterday's action propelled the Dow to a 4.1 percent gain, helping it recover 42.3 percent of its losses since tumbling to a low of 7,539.07 on Aug. 31. The market had reached a record 9,337.97 on July 17. 

 Analysts greeted the Fed action as a sign that the nation's central bankers have reversed their reluctance to cut rates out of fear of igniting inflation and are taking decisive action to stop a spreading recession overseas from infecting the American economy. 

 "They clearly recognize the threat that the international recession will spread from Asia and Russia to Latin America," said Jerry Jasinowski, president of the National Association of Manufacturers. 

 The Fed cut rates despite an announcement yesterday that the Producer Price Index rose a seasonally adjusted 0.3 percent last month, its biggest increase in a year. 

 The Fed issued a statement saying that it cut rates to ease pressures on lenders. Economists have warned that bankers at home and abroad have tightened credit in reaction to losses in overseas markets and investment hedge funds. 

 Stock prices were already climbing yesterday after President Clinton finally announced a deal with Congress on a 1999 budget. But the Dow leaped 120 points after the Fed announced its interest rate cut. 

 Financial stocks led yesterday's surge, with American Express increasing $7.63 to $88.5; Freddie Mac, up $1.69 to $51.69; and J.P. Morgan & Co. up $5 to $92.50. 

 Computer stocks also climbed as companies reported strong earnings. Microsoft Corp. rose $4.81 to $105 and Oracle Corp. increased $1.19 to $26.88. 

 Although the interest rate cuts should make it easier for companies to borrow money and expand, analysts said the Fed move underscores how precarious domestic economic growth has become. 

 "The Fed had been very slow to respond to a deteriorating situation," Roy Blumberg, an analyst for First Allied Securities, told Reuters. "This is definitely a surprise. People didn't expect this to happen this quickly. It's been a while since the Fed has been this aggressive." 

 ----- 

 Visit The Washington Times on the World Wide Web at http://www.washtimes.com/

 (c) 1998, The Washington Times. Distributed by Knight Ridder/Tribune Business News. AXP, JPM, MSFT, ORCL, 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REasiaz : Asia | gulfstz : Persian Gulf Regions | meastz : Middle East | namz : North America | qatar : Qatar | usa : United States | wasiaz : Western Asia   IPC6231   IPDInterest Rates | Economic Indicators | Economic News | United States of America, Americas~US | Americas | North America | Pacific Rim | Security & Commodity Exchanges   ANDocument krtbn00020010917duag013n1  

HD Banks Follow Suit after  Federal Reserve 's Rate Cut    BY Timothy Burn, The Washington Times    WC589 words   PD16 October 1998   SNKRTBN Knight-Ridder Tribune Business News:The Washington Times   SCKRTBN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright (C) 1998 KRTBN Knight Ridder Tribune Business News; Source: World Reporter (TM)
   LP Knight Ridder/Tribune Business News 

 Oct. 16--Major national banks reacted to the Federal Reserve's unexpected cut in short-term interest rates yesterday by cutting their prime lending rates. 
   TD That means American consumers will get better terms on home and car loans despite continuing turmoil in overseas financial markets. 

 The Fed cut the federal-funds rate, which banks charge each other on overnight loans, by .25 percentage point to 5 percent. And it cut the discount rate on its own loans to banks, also by a quarter-point, to 4.75 percent. 

 Bank One Corp., the nation's fifth-largest bank, as well as Norwest Corp. and American Express Bank quickly reacted by cutting their prime lending rates to 8 percent from 8.25 percent. First Union also dropped its rate a quarter-point, to 8 percent. 

 Most banks are expected to follow suit, though many area institutions were slower to respond to the Fed cut, which caught many industry analysts by surprise. It was the second rate cut in less than a month. 

 U.S. banks cut their prime lending rate by a quarter-point to 8.25 percent after the Fed cut the funds rate from 5.50 percent to 5.25 percent Sept. 29 -- the first interest-rate reduction in three years. 

 Many consumer loans are tied to the prime rate or even directly to the Fed funds rate, so consumers should see a drop in their variable-rate mortgage, credit-card and auto-loan rates. 

 "This is good news for consumers as far as boosting their confidence, and that actually may be more important right now than saving a few dollars on loans," said Fritz Elsmandorf, spokesman for the Consumer Bankers Association in Arlington. 

 Mr. Elsmandorf said the rate cuts should also send a signal to banks to ease credit lines. Most banks in recent months have tightened credit terms for more risky personal loans. 

 "The extra availability of credit will be a critical factor in keeping the American economy strong," he said. 

 Jake Lewis, an analyst for the Washington-based Center for Responsive Law, a consumer watchdog group, was more skeptical of the cuts' impact on consumers. 

 "At best, this will be a long-term trickle-down effect for consumers. Obviously, people participating in the stock market were overjoyed with the news, but that exuberance may not last for long," he said. 

 Consumer confidence has been on the wane as the stock market has taken a beating amid worsening financial conditions in Russia and Asia. 

 Just hours before the Sept. 29 Fed rate cut, the Conference Board, a private business research group in New York, reported that consumer confidence slipped for the third straight month in September. 

 The board's index fell 7.1 percent, hitting the lowest level since October 1997. 

 Wall Street welcomed yesterday's surprise cut, with the Dow Jones Industrial Average shooting up 330.58 points, or 4.1 percent, to close at 8,299.36. 

 Fed officials have not changed interest rates between scheduled policy meetings since April 1994, when they cut the overnight-loan rate by half a point to 3.75 percent. The Fed's next official policy meeting is Nov. 17. 

 -- This article is based in part on wire-service reports. 

 ----- 

 Visit The Washington Times on the World Wide Web at http://www.washtimes.com/

 (c) 1998, The Washington Times. Distributed by Knight Ridder/Tribune Business News. ONE, NOB, AXP, FTU, 
   INi814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REasiaz : Asia | gulfstz : Persian Gulf Regions | meastz : Middle East | namz : North America | qatar : Qatar | usa : United States | wasiaz : Western Asia   IPC9651 | 6029   IPDInterest Rates | Economic Indicators | Economic News | United States of America, Americas~US | Americas | North America | Pacific Rim | Regulation of Miscellaneous Commercial Sectors, Commercial Banks NEC   ANDocument krtbn00020010917duag013mt  

HD Interest Rate  Cut Lifts Dow 330 Points    BY Jeff May, The Star-Ledger, Newark, N.J.    WC1,177 words   PD16 October 1998   SNKRTBN Knight-Ridder Tribune Business News: The Star-Ledger, Newark, N.J   SCKRTBN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright (C) 1998 KRTBN Knight Ridder Tribune Business News; Source: World Reporter (TM)
   LP Knight Ridder/Tribune Business News 

 Oct. 16--The financial markets ran on rocket fuel yesterday, thanks to an unexpected cut in short-term interest rates by the Federal Reserve. 
   TD The Dow Jones industrial average, in the midst of a modest rally before the afternoon rate announcement, surged 330.58 points to 8,299.36, the third-biggest point gain in its history. The Dow's hefty 4.2 percent increase was topped by the Nasdaq index, whose mix of technology stocks shot up 70.04 points, or 4.6 percent. 

 There was no mystery about what caused the Wall Street buying spree. As soon as the Federal Reserve's decision to cut rates by a quarter-point was made public, market indicators spiked upward. Financial stocks, including American Express, J.P. Morgan and Citigroup, led the gains. 

 "I think it caught everybody offguard," said Anthony O'Bryan, an analyst for A.G. Edwards in St. Louis who sat glued to his computer monitor as the rally unfolded. 

 The rate cut is unusual because it was disclosed during a telephone conference, not during a regular meeting the Federal Reserve's Board of Governors. The action comes on the heels of another quarter-point cut on Sept. 29, which was widely viewed as an inadequate response to a slowdown in the U.S. economy. 

 In the earlier instance, Wall Street had rallied on the prospect of a rate cut in the days before it was actually announced. There was no such expectation this week, O'Bryan said. 

 "We were expecting a rate cut in both the Fed funds and the discount rate, but we did not think it would come this soon," he said. 

 The Federal Reserve has kept short-term interest rates artificially high to prevent inflation, but changed tactics because of "growing caution by lenders and unsettled conditions in financial markets." Several financial institutions have also announced layoffs due to turmoil in global markets, and consumer confidence has ebbed. 

 But O'Bryan said the markets aren't propping themselves up with false cheer. The long-term prospects for the U.S. economy are good, he said. 

 "I know some people are trying to put a negative spin on this, but I'm not one of them," he said. "I think it just shows that the Fed is alert. The last rate change did not have the desired effect, it was viewed as insufficient. I think now this sets the Fed ahead of the curve." 

 William Freund, a former chief economist for the New York Stock Exchange, agreed. 

 "I think the expectation is now that the Fed has acted again, it will stem a slide in the economy," said Freund, who heads Pace University's Center for the Study of Equity Markets. "It is also a signal that the Fed will act in the future to head off a downturn in the economy." 

 Financial stocks have been among the worst hit in the rout of recent months as slowing economies from Asia to Latin America, securities trading losses and financial market declines crimp profits. Many banks and financial services companies have seen their prices halved. 

 Lower interest rates benefit these companies as they make the cost of doing business cheaper and boost demand for loans and credit. American Express led companies in the Dow, rising 7 5/8 to 88 1/2. 

 Computer-related shares were the second-best performing group for the day. Microsoft gained 5 1/4 to 105 7/16 and Oracle Corp. rose 1 1/16 to 26 3/4. 

 The big surge pushed the Dow to its highest finish since Aug. 26, and well above the psychologically important barrier of 8,000. But while the industrial average stands 4.9 percent above where it began the year, it is more than 1,000 points below the record of 9,337.97 set on July 17. 

 The Standard & Poors 500, a broader market indicator, rose 41.97, or 4.2 percent, to 1,047.49. The Russell 2000 Index of small and mediumsized companies surged 3 percent. 

 Some investors and analysts cautioned against reading too much into the rally. 

 "If tomorrow is a down day, it would suggest this is a flash in the pan," said Philip Roth, chief technical market analyst at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter & Co. "But if tomorrow looks like today, it would suggest a new bull market." 

 Others warned that earnings reports will hurt stocks more than they help no matter how often or much the Fed cuts interest rates. 

 "We'll continue to have a tug of war with interest rates buoying the market, and earnings pushing it down," said W. Shannon Reid, a money manager with First Union's Capital Management Group, which oversees $50 billion. 

 Companies that beat expectations were rewarded. 

 Avis Rent a Car Inc. soared 4 5/16 to 17 after the world's second-biggest car rental company's third-quarter earnings rose to 83 cents a share, from 45 cents a year earlier, above the 76 cents average estimate of analysts surveyed by First Call Corp. The company also said it will expand its share buyback program by 3.5 million shares, or about 10 percent of its current 34.43 million shares outstanding. 

 Colgate-Palmolive rose 4 13/16 to 81-9/16 after the top U.S. toothpaste maker said third-quarter earnings rose 14 percent as strong results in North and Latin America and costcutting offset weakness in Asia. 

 On the other hand, investors shunned shares of companies that disappointed. 

 Nextel Communications Inc. fell 2 3/8 to 17 5/16 after the wireless phone company said its quarterly loss widened as expenses to expand its wireless-phone network rose. The company also added fewer customers than expected. Nextel, which is trading at a 52-week low, is down 34.1 percent for the year. 

 Freund said stocks will continue to be volatile, but the wild see-saws of the past three months should subside in the wake of the rate cut. 

 "I think the market needs to gain a footing," he said. "I think this will do it." 

 He said he does not expect the economy to go into a recession. 

 Peter Theodossiou, an associate professor of finance at Rutgers University, also expects the stock market to calm once the uncertainty surrounding President Clinton's political fate clears by the end of the year. And while he believes the stock market will begin to climb again soon, he is less optimistic than Freund about the economy's current state. 

 "We're probably in a recession and we don't know it," he said. 

 Bloomberg News contributed to this report. 

 ----- 

 Visit New Jersey Online, the World Wide Web site of The Star-Ledger, at http://www.nj.comews

 (c) 1998, The Star-Ledger, Newark, N.J. Distributed by Knight Ridder/Tribune Business News. AXP, JPM, CCI, MSFT, ORCL, MS, FTU, AVI, CL, CALL, 
   NSc15 : Performance | c152 : Earnings Projections | c1521 : Analyst Comment/Recommendation | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | nanl : Analysis | ncat : Content Types   REasiaz : Asia | gulfstz : Persian Gulf Regions | meastz : Middle East | namz : North America | qatar : Qatar | usa : United States | wasiaz : Western Asia   IPC6231   IPDInterest Rates | Economic Indicators | Economic News | Market Reports | Comment & Analysis | Market News | United States of America, Americas~US | Americas | North America | Pacific Rim | Security & Commodity Exchanges   ANDocument krtbn00020010917duag013kj  

HD Market Analysts Remain Edgy despite Dow's Leap    BY Bill Deener, The Dallas Morning News    WC729 words   PD16 October 1998   SNKRTBN Knight-Ridder Tribune Business News: The Dallas Morning News   SCKRTBN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright (C) 1998 KRTBN Knight Ridder Tribune Business News; Source: World Reporter (TM)
   LP Knight Ridder/Tribune Business News 

 Oct. 16--The U.S. stock market was energized Thursday by an unexpected Federal Reserve interest rate cut, but the enfeebled economies of Asia and Latin America still cast a long shadow over Wall Street, analysts said. 
   TD The benchmark Dow Jones industrial average posted a gain of 330.58, or 4.2 percent, to close at 8299.36, which is still about 1,000 points below its record high of 9337.97 on July 17. Most of the gain, which was the largest since Sept. 8 and the Dow's third-biggest point gain ever, came after the Fed rate cut was announced an hour before the market close. 

 The Fed's policy-setting Open Market Committee reduced the overnight bank lending rate by a quarter of a percentage point to 5 percent. This comes just 16 days after the Fed made a similar interest rate cut, and it marked the first time in four years it had cut rates between scheduled policy meetings. Lower interest rates are usually a good omen for stock prices because they lower borrowing costs for businesses and make stocks more attractive as investments compared with bonds. 

 Despite Thursday's rally, analysts aren't convinced that the market turmoil which has rattled investors since July is over. 

 "There are still a lot of unanswered questions about how the global economic crisis will affect U.S. companies, so I think investors will still be a little timid about sticking their necks out," said Henry Hermann, chief investment officer at Waddell & Reed in Overland Park, Kan. 

 Brad Erickson, managing director at Piper Jaffray in Seattle, said much of Thursday's gain was due solely to knee-jerk reaction to the Fed's surprise rate cut. 

 "This is 330 points we can lose on the down side," he said, "and we will as the market begins to discount the recession of 1999 or 2000." 

 With evidence mounting that the U.S. economy is slowing, some analysts viewed the rate cut as a Band-Aid on a serious wound and largely symbolic. 

 "It is just a symbol. It doesn't change any of the fundamentals from yesterday," said John Frankola, senior portfolio manager at Parker/Hunter Asset Management in Pittsburgh. "The cut just shows that the Fed is willing to act aggressively. Stocks are still trading at high valuations." 

 "Bear markets don't last six weeks; they last nine months," Mr. Erickson said. "We ain't out of the woods, and I would view this as a great opportunity to get out." 

 Actually, the stock market never officially fell into a bear market, which is defined as a 20 percent decline in the Dow. But the average stock on the New York Stock Exchange lost 30 percent from the market's July peak, and many smaller stocks were down even more. 

 The rate cut propelled the broader markets higher, with the Standard & Poor's 500 index climbing 41.96 points to 1047.49. The technology-laden Nasdaq composite index rose 70.04 points to close at 1611.01. 

 Advancing issues led decliners by a 3-1 margin on the NYSE, where volume totaled 937.62 million shares. The NYSE composite index rose 19.48 to 516.46. 

 Mr. Hermann said interest rates must be cut further. "This cut won't materially affect economic activity," he said. "This move was aimed at helping the financial markets as opposed to the economy in general." 

 For example, recent government surveys show banks are clamping down on lending to large international corporations. Lower interest rates will increase loan demand and profitability of banks. Further, the issuance of new stock and bonds by smaller companies has all but dried up as the stock market drifted downward through late summer. 

 The earnings of U.S. companies are beginning to shrink as the economies of Japan, South Korea, Thailand and Indonesia continue to weaken, analysts said. 

 In overseas trading, Tokyo's Nikkei stock average fell 0.1 percent, Frankfurt's DAX index rose 1.9 percent and London's FT-SE 100 rose 0.4 percent. 

 ----- 

 Visit The Dallas Morning News on the World Wide Web at http://www.dallasnews.com/

 (c) 1998, The Dallas Morning News. Distributed by Knight Ridder/Tribune Business News. 
   NSc15 : Performance | c152 : Earnings Projections | c1521 : Analyst Comment/Recommendation | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | nanl : Analysis | ncat : Content Types   REasiaz : Asia | eurz : Europe | gulfstz : Persian Gulf Regions | meastz : Middle East | namz : North America | qatar : Qatar | uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | wasiaz : Western Asia | weurz : Western Europe   IPC6231   IPDInterest Rates | Economic Indicators | Economic News | Comment & Analysis | Market News | Market Reports | United Kingdom, Europe~GB | United States of America, Americas~US | Europe | European Union | Western Europe | Americas | North America | Pacific Rim | Security & Commodity Exchanges   ANDocument krtbn00020010917duag013gy  

HD Federal Reserve  Cuts Interest Rates Again; Markets Surge    BY Jim Landers, The Dallas Morning News    WC832 words   PD16 October 1998   SNKRTBN Knight-Ridder Tribune Business News: The Dallas Morning News   SCKRTBN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright (C) 1998 KRTBN Knight Ridder Tribune Business News; Source: World Reporter (TM)
   LP Knight Ridder/Tribune Business News 

 Oct. 16--WASHINGTON--The Federal Reserve Board, prompted by concerns that the U.S. economy may be slowing down, surprised financial markets Thursday with its second cut in interest rates in three weeks. 
   TD Stock markets rose dramatically after the Fed's afternoon announcement. The Dow Jones industrial average jumped nearly 331 points to close at the highest level since Aug. 26. 

 The central bank lowered the short-term interest rates it controls, each by a quarter-percentage point. The federal funds rate for overnight loans among banks fell from 5.25 to 5 percent. The Fed also lowered its discount rate to banks for the first time in three years, from 5 to 4.75 percent. 

 The rate cuts eventually could affect a wide range of credit instruments, including home mortgages, credit cards, auto loans and business credit. The Fed statement noted "growing caution by lenders and unsettled conditions in financial markets." 

 "Further easing of the stance of monetary policy was judged to be warranted to sustain economic growth in the context of contained inflation." 

 Many market analysts had expected the Federal Reserve to make additional interest rate cuts because economic recessions in many other nations are spreading into the U.S. economy. Sharp drops in the stock market since August have also added to expectations of interest rate cuts to stimulate U.S. economic growth. 

 Some economists said the rate cut was simply a tardy follow on the Fed's Sept. 29 quarter-point cut. 

 "They should have done half a point at the last meeting," said Dr. Ray Perryman, economist in residence at the Edwin L. Cox School of Business at Southern Methodist University. "We'll see rates coming down for a while." 

 Other economists expressed fears that by moving before its scheduled Nov. 17 meeting, the Fed was trying to avert a more immediate problem. 

 "They're giving a signal they're aware of something the markets are not aware of," said Dr. Pierre Ellis, senior international economist with Primark Decision Economics Inc. in Boston. "They may be trying to nip something in the bud." 

 At home, a credit crunch tops the list of concerns economists have been expressing of late. Anecdotal evidence suggests that banks are making it harder to get loans. Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan poured cold water on that concern last week in a speech before the National Association of Business Economists. But it made its way into the Fed's rationale for cutting rates Thursday. 

 Abroad, the big worry is Brazil, where fleeing capital has forced interest rates above 40 percent as the Brazilian government tries to hold the value of its currency to the U.S. dollar. 

 "It's important to prevent Brazil from going over the brink," said Dr. Ellis. "They're an important trade partner, and if they go down, that would take other Latin American countries over the brink as well." 

 Jeffrey Schott of the Institute for International Economics in Washington said a U.S. interest-rate cut could be a small part of an overall strategy led by the International Monetary Fund and the U.S. Treasury to help Brazil. 

 "This is one part of a larger package so countries such as Brazil have time to pursue reforms and put their house in order," he said. "But a quarter-point is not going to make much difference." 

 Lawrence Chimerine of the Economic Strategy Institute in Washington said the spread of recessions in Asia and Russia to Latin America and possibly the United States means the Fed should keep cutting. 

 "This is only the tip of the iceberg," he said. "By the time they're finished, we'll see at least one full percent, and maybe one and a half percent, in interest cuts." 

 "It's needed to reduce the risk of a credit crunch in the United States and the risk of consumer confidence dropping," Chimerine said. "If it helps the global economy, that's good, too. But the main concern is to prevent Asia and the rest from dragging down the whole U.S. economy." 

 Greenspan said in last week's speech to business economists that elements of a U.S. slowdown are gathering. 

 "We are clearly facing a set of forces that should be dampening demand going forward," he said. "We do not know how far it will go." 

 By cutting interest rates with the hint that more cuts will follow, the Fed likely will loosen credit somewhat and encourage consumer spending going into the Christmas shopping season, Dr. Perryman said. 

 "What's really going on here is they're looking at this global economic situation, and Brazil, and signaling the financial markets, `We know what's going on,'" he said. 

 ----- 

 Visit The Dallas Morning News on the World Wide Web at http://www.dallasnews.com/

 (c) 1998, The Dallas Morning News. Distributed by Knight Ridder/Tribune Business News. 
   INi814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REasiaz : Asia | gulfstz : Persian Gulf Regions | meastz : Middle East | namz : North America | qatar : Qatar | usa : United States | wasiaz : Western Asia   IPC6011   IPDInterest Rates | Economic Indicators | Economic News | United States of America, Americas~US | Americas | North America | Pacific Rim | Federal Reserve Banks   ANDocument krtbn00020010917duag013gi  



 SELocal News   HDStock market celebrates  interest rate  cut     CRSpectator wire services   WC525 words   PD16 October 1998   SNThe Hamilton Spectator   SCHMSP   EDFinal   PGA1 / FRONT   LAEnglish   CYCopyright (c) 1998 The Hamilton Spectator.  
   LPIn New York, the bellwether Dow Jones industrial average gained 330.58 points, or about four per cent, to close at 8,299.36. It was the third-biggest point gain in history for the Dow, which has now rallied more than 800 points from last Thursday's low.  

The share-buying spree was sparked by a quarter-percentage-point cut in two of the U.S. Federal Reserve Board's trend-setting rates.  
   TDBecause of the strength of the American economy and currency, countries around the world generally follow the lead of the American central bank in cutting rates. That's good news for consumers, since lower interest rates reduce the cost of goods and borrowed money and keep the economy growing.  

It's also good news for investors, since share prices usually reflect corporate profits, which in turn depend upon corporate borrowing costs and the health of the economy.  

The Bank of Canada didn't immediately match the Fed's move.  

Still, economists say it's almost inevitable our central bank will do the same.  

The Canadian dollar rallied yesterday after news broke of the lower U.S. rates. The loonie, which had been backsliding for most of the day, reversed course and gained 0.21 to close at 65.04 cents US. Canada's central bank has been leery of cutting interest rates before the U.S., because it could cause the loonie to drift even lower.  

Yesterday's U.S. rate cut, the second in less than a month, was even more effective because it was unexpected. The Fed last cut rates a quarter point in late September, a move that was matched by the Bank of Canada. Although market watchers expected the Fed would cut rates again in order to forestall a recession, it was not expected to act until after the board's next scheduled meeting in November.  

The unusual move underscores how worried policy makers are about the financial instability rattling economies and financial markets around the world.  

In the U.S., economists said the rate cut is a clear sign of growing concern about the slowing American economy.  

"This means that (Fed chairman) Alan Greenspan is legitimately worried," said economist Larry Chimerine of Economic Strategy Institute.  

"He realizes that not only is there going to be a huge drag on trade from what is happening in Asia, but he is now seeing consumer confidence start to slip. If we start to see consumers retrench, we will be in a recession."  

Despite those worries, the market's party yesterday was fuelled by growing confidence, said Dan Richards, president of Marketing Solutions, a mutual fund research firm in Toronto.  

Interest rates are falling, some companies have posted better-than-expected third-quarter profits, Japan is fixing its banking problems and investors believe the panic has left markets undervalued, Richards said.  

"It's a combination of those factors that really came together," he said.  

In fact, he said, "You're seeing a growing consensus that we will see more rate cuts over the course of the next little while."  
   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | npag : Page-One Story | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types   REusa : United States | caon : Ontario | usny : New York | cana : Canada | namz : North America | use : Northeast U.S.   PUBToronto Star Newspapers Ltd.   ANDocument HMSP000020051216duag004hw  



 SE 1, News    HD MARKETS LEAP AS FED CUTS: Dow soars 330 points, TSE posts its biggest gain in 11 years, as U.S.  Federal Reserve  buoys investors' spirit by trimming key rate 25 basis points    BY David Thomas, Economics Reporter, with files from Dow Jones    WC609 words   PD16 October 1998   SNThe Financial Post   SCFINP   EDDaily   PG1   LAEnglish   CY (c) Copyright 1998 The Financial Post Company 
   LP Financial markets jumped for joy yesterday, enjoying a dramatic late-afternoon surge after the U.S. Federal Reserve boosted traders' spirits with a surprise interest rate cut. 

 Stocks skyrocketed on the news, with the Dow Jones industrial average gaining nearly 300 points in the last 45 minutes of trading before slipping back. It closed with a gain of 330.58 points, or 4.2%. The rate cut - a quarter of a percentage point - was announced just after 3 p.m. EDT. 
   TD The Toronto Stock Exchange 300 composite index went along for the ride, showing its biggest gain in 11 years by rising as much as 5% before closing with an advance of 268.31 points, or 4.8%. 

 It was the second rate cut in the U.S. in the past three weeks and marked the first time in 2 1/2 years that Fed chairman Alan Greenspan changed rates outside of a scheduled policy-setting meeting. 

 The news had a dramatic impact on sentiment in the market and sent traders on a buying spree in the hope lower rates will kickstart a flagging economy. Many analysts had suspected Greenspan would wait until the Fed's Nov. 17 meeting to cut rates. "It's a surprise but not a shock," said Bill Meehan, chief market analyst at Cantor Fitzgerald in New York. 

 The cut shifts attention to the central bankers of other western economic powers, including the Bank of Canada's Gordon Thiessen. 

 When the Fed cut rates by a quarter of percentage point Sept. 29, the Bank of Canada matched the cut within hours. Analysts expect the bank to match the move today. 

 "While we have not seen the Bank of Canada follow, we have no doubt it will," said David Ebata, an analyst of Canadian markets with Boston-based Thomson Global Markets. 

 The move should put the heat on other central bankers to cut rates, which would stimulate growth and loosen the credit crunch that is strangling emerging market economies. 

 "We can hope we now get rate cuts out of Japan and Germany, and then we see a bailout package for Brazil," said Meehan of Cantor Fitzgerald. 

 The Fed said the rate cut was the result of "growing caution by lenders and unsettled conditions in financial markets" that is crimping economic activity. "Against this backdrop, further easing of the stance of monetary policy was judged to be warranted to sustain economic growth." 

 While traders may have turned bullish in the short term, the small cut in interest rates will not go far toward lifting growth in the slowing U.S. economy, economists said. 

 "In the long run, it won't turn the global economy around on a dime," Meehan said. "The impact will be relatively short lived." 

 Bruce Steinberg, chief economist at Merrill Lynch & Co., said the Fed will have to ease rates another half percentage point by the yearend to moderate a serious economic slump. 

 "Hopefully, the move will relieve some of the strains in financial markets and improve liquidity. But it is certainly not enough to prevent a further slowdown in global growth." 

 Economists are expecting more rate cuts from the U.S. and Canada by the yearend. Canada is likely to follow the U.S.'s lead, rather than cut rates on its own because deeper cuts in Canada could undermine the currency and bond markets. 
   RFToday's Business   ART GRAPH    COmerly : Merrill Lynch & Co Inc   INiinv : Investing/Securities   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m11 : Equity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REcana : Canada | namz : North America | usa : United States   IPDUnited States Federal Reserve Board | Bank of Canada | STOCK MARKET | MONETARY POLICY | INTEREST RATES | UNITED STATES | CANADA   ANDocument finp000020011205duag00fmj  



 HD Data On Prices, Industrial Output Leave Door Open For Further Easing    WC1,240 words   PD16 October 1998   ET14:45   SNDow Jones Online News   SCDJON   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 1998, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP WASHINGTON -(Dow Jones)- Government data released Friday indicated continued low inflation at the consumer level and a weakening industrial sector, leaving the door open for additional rate cutting by the Federal Reserve. 

 The consumer price index was unchanged in September, while industrial production slumped 0.3% and the operating rate of U.S. industry declined. In addition, the weekly earnings of U.S. workers in the month posted the largest decline in more than two years. 
   TD The Fed Thursday unexpectedly cut rates for the second time in just over two weeks, saying growing caution by lenders and investors represented a serious threat to the U.S. economic expansion. It said the quarter-point cuts in two key lending rates were needed to support consumer and business spending "in the context of contained inflation." 

 The Fed's easing of monetary policy offered a clear sign that the central bank is extremely concerned about the impact of the global financial contagion on the economy. Observers said the move underscored the concern among policymakers that the growing aversion to risk in capital markets may be leading to a serious credit crunch. With the Fed now more concerned with the dampening pressures of the global turmoil than with dormant inflation, many expect further rate cuts in coming months. 

 The Labor Department said the stability in consumer prices in September was underpinned by a 1.3% decline in energy prices. The so-called core CPI, which leaves out erratic food and energy prices, rose 0.2% in September. Both the overall CPI and the core index were about in line with expectations. 

 For the 12 months ended in September, consumer prices have grown 1.5%, while the core index is up 2.5%. The CPI has grown 1.4% so far in 1998. 

 The September decline in consumer energy prices followed a 1.0% drop in August and was the fourth-straight month that energy prices either fell or were unchanged. Energy prices were down 9.8% in the month from a year earlier. 

 Within the core CPI, Labor said increases in shelter and cigarette prices were offset by declines in the indexes for apparel and public transportation. Shelter prices rose 0.5% in September and tobacco and smoking products gained 3.3%. 

 Apparel prices, which increased 1.1% in August as retailers rolled out fall fashions, fell 0.7% in September. The decline was the biggest in the apparel component since February 1996. 

 Transportation prices fell 0.4% after an unchanged performance in August. Consumer prices of new vehicles decreased 0.1% in September and gasoline prices fell 2.0%. Year-over-year, gasoline prices are down 18.0%. 

 The consumer-price data followed Thursday's report on wholesale prices, which analysts said also indicated weak inflation. Although producer prices in September jumped 0.3%, the largest increase in a year, the increase was led by an outsized 2.2% increase in passenger-vehicle prices. Without autos, producer prices would have risen just 0.1% in the month, analysts said. 

 Because of the low inflation this year, the 44 million Americans getting Social Security checks will see them grow by just 1.3% next year, the lowest cost-of-living raise in a dozen years. 

 Social Security Commissioner Kenneth S. Apfel said Friday the cost-of-living adjustment, or COLA, means the average monthly check for retirees will rise by $10, to $780. 

 "Inflation remains under control," Apfel said in a statement. "Low inflation is good for America, particularly for many Social Security beneficiaries living on fixed incomes." 

 In its separate report showing the downturn in industrial production, the Fed painted a gloomier picture of America's factory sector than had been thought. "The declines were widespread in durable manufacturing, with larger drops in steel and motor-vehicle parts," the Fed said. 

 The end of the General Motors Corp. strike had been expected to produce a rise in production of around 0.2% in September. But the Fed's index of production excluding motor vehicles and parts dropped 0.1%, following a revised 0.1% decline in August. 

 For the third quarter, the Fed said production was unchanged, after posting a 1.7% gain in the second quarter. 

 Some analysts believe prospects for further interest-rate reductions are enhanced by weak factory-sector readings. Combined with a smaller-than-expected September retail-sales report released earlier this week, further weakness in the manufacturing sector would point to an economy entering the fourth quarter with little forward momentum. 

 Production in August was revised down slightly, to a gain of 1.6% from the previously reported 1.7% increase. That gain, sandwiched between July's 0.4% drop and September's 0.3% decline, was largely attributed to a rebound from the GM strike. 

 The Fed's index of the output of the nation's factories, utilities and mines stood last month at 128.7% of the 1992 average, up 2.4% from a year earlier. 

 Manufacturing production decreased 0.4%, after rising 1.8% in August. Durable-goods production was off 0.7% while production of nondurables fell 0.2%. 

 The production of business equipment fell an adjusted 0.6% last month after rising 3.5% in August. That would confirm other signs that investment in new equipment by businesses may be slowing. The output of consumer goods fell 0.4%. 

 Autos were assembled at an adjusted annual rate of 12.7 million units last month, down from the 13.2 million unit assembly pace of August. 

 The Fed said U.S. factories, utilities and mines operated at an adjusted 81.1% of capacity in September, down from a revised 81.6% in August and slightly lower than economists generally expected. 

 Falling exports related to the strength of the dollar overseas have hit manufacturing hard in recent months. The capacity utilization rate for factories dropped to 79.6% from a revised 80.3% in August. 

 Nondurable-goods industries operated at an 80.8% of capacity last month, down from 81.1% in August. Durable-goods industries operated at an 78.7% of capacity, down from 79.7%. 

 The operating rate for the motor vehicle and parts industry fell to an adjusted 75.2% in September from 77.9%. 

 The only major category to see an increase in its operating rate was the utility sector, which saw use rise to 93.8% from 92.4% in August. "The utilization rate of electric utilities reached a high level that reflects both higher levels of generation and slower growth of capacity at electric utilities that face an uncertain market," the Fed said. 

 Meanwhile, the Labor Department reported that gross weekly earnings of U.S. workers fell an adjusted 0.6% in September, the largest decline since July 1996. 

 The drop in earnings followed a 0.4% increase in August and a 0.1% rise in July. 

 The September decline stemmed from a 0.6% decline in average weekly hours, which was slightly offset by a 0.1% increase in average hourly earnings. In August, average hourly earnings rose 0.5%. 

 Seasonally adjusted gross weekly earnings were $442.38 in September, compared with a revised $444.61 in August. After adjusting for inflation, September weekly earnings were $267.78, compared with a revised $269.30 in August. 

 Copyright (c) 1998 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved. 
   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument djon000020020329duag01crd  



 HD U.S. Rate Cut Benefits Asia, But Won't Ease Restructuring    BY By James T. Areddy    WC304 words   PD16 October 1998   ET12:35   SNDow Jones International News   SCDJI   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 1998, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP HONG KONG (Dow Jones)--The enthusiasm in Asian markets Friday reflected relief that the latest U.S. interest rate cut should ease recent concerns about the U.S. economy, leaving the region with one less problem to worry about. 

 Every stock market in the region rose Thursday, led by Hong Kong and Singapore, where the key indexes jumped 9.0% and 9.3%, respectively. The Japanese Nikkei 225 edged up 2.2% to 1320.54. 
   TD The news also benefited most Asian currencies against the dollar, and interest rates began to fall in sympathy in some places, such as Hong Kong and Singapore. 

 Analysts said the question for Asia isn't whether the U.S. interest rate reduction has made it easier for countries to push through their difficult economic reform and restructuring or whether it will revive them quickly. Rather, the issue is how much more difficult those goals would have been if the U.S. economy faced sudden trouble, according to analysts. 

 "The rate cut does not fix any of the structural problems that affect the crisis economies," Stephen Roach, chief economist of Morgan Stanley Dean Witter & Co. 

 "We don't see any meaningful recovery in Asia until the end of 1999. The hope is the rate of decline is now in the process of moderating. Economic contractions are likely to continue playing out," according to Roach. 

 But absolutely the last thing the world needs right now is a recession in its biggest economy, and analysts from the International Monetary Fund, governments and securities firms on Friday said the U.S. Federal Reserve Board has sharply reduced such risk with its second easing in three weeks. 

 (MORE) Dow Jones Newswires 16-10-98 

 1035GMT 
   RF1134 4206 62550   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m11 : Equity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REasiaz : Asia | china : China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | easiaz : Eastern Asia | hkong : Hong Kong | namz : North America | usa : United States   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument dji0000020010917duag006p6  



 HD Japan EPA Sakaiya -2: Says U.S. Taking Anti-Deflation Steps    WC145 words   PD16 October 1998   ET03:17   SNDow Jones International News   SCDJI   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 1998, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP TOKYO (Dow Jones)--The Director General of Japan's Economic Planning Agency said Friday the U.S.'s interest rate cut on Thursday will likely have a positive impact on the Japanese economy. 

 However, Taichi Sakaiya said at a regular press conference that he hasn't yet analyzed the extent to which the U.S. rate cut will help Japan's economy. 
   TD Sakaiya said that the Federal Reserve's decision to cut two key interest rates by a quarter percentage point indicated that the U.S. has started taking policy steps to prevent its economy from slipping into deflation, departing from its previous stance of guarding against inflation. 

 "It is important for Japan and the U.S. to share concern about the (economic) crisis," Sakaiya said. 

 (MORE) Dow Jones Newswires 16-10-98 

 0117GMT 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m11 : Equity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REasiaz : Asia | easiaz : Eastern Asia | jap : Japan | namz : North America | usa : United States   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument dji0000020010917duag005t2  



 HD U.S. Debt Futures Soar On Hopes Of More Rate Cuts, Some Fear    WC370 words   PD16 October 1998   ET22:21   SNCapital Markets Report   SCCM   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 1998, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP CHICAGO (Dow Jones)--Interest rate futures ended sharply higher Friday, as the market anticipates both additional rate cuts by the Federal Reserve and the potential for further financial disasters in the weeks ahead. 

 The lead-month March Eurodollar contract soared 26.5 basis points to 95.705, pointing to a Federal funds rate of perhaps 4.25% in the first quarter of next year. 
   TD "The aggressive nature of the cut argues there'll be more cuts in the future," said William Keuffel, market strategist at Optima Investment Research. 

 The Fed caught financial markets off guard Thursday - particularly the futures markets which had closed for the day - by cutting the rates 25 basis points at 3:15 p.m. EDT. Most financial analysts were not expecting a rate cut ahead of the scheduled Nov. 17 policy meeting. 

 The timing of the policy action has sparked some concern there may be more trouble on the horizon than the market is currently aware of. 

 "That has led to questions and concerns about how fragile the financial markets are for the Fed to have become noticeably more active," said Keuffel. 

 "Why did they cut the rate?" asked one senior trader. "There's talk of a bank failure. They had to provide liquidity. Somebody's in trouble and that's all there is to it." 

 The trader said all this talk breeds fear in the market, "and people come in here when it's fearful." 

 Keuffel said the market is in good shape from a technical standpoint, having broken above last Friday's high of 130-15 and the 1/2 retracement level from the big move down at 130-21. The December bond contract peaked Friday at 131-06. 


Contract                       Price       Change
Dec Federal Funds             95.280      Up 22.0 BP
Mar 1999 Eurodollars          95.710      Up 27.0 BP
Dec 10-Years                  121-10      Up 1 5/32
Dec T-Bonds                   130-08      Up 1 16/32
Mar 99 to Mar 00 Euro Spread  2.5 Vs 0.0
-By Michael McHugh; (312)750-4142
 michael.mchugh@cor.dowjones.com



(END) Dow Jones Newswires  10-16-98



1621EDT

   RF4101   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m15 : Derivative Securities | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument cm00000020010916duag02fm6  



 SEretail   HDRETAIL STOCKS GET BOOST AS DJIA JUMPS 330.58 -     BYCatherine Curan / Melanie Kletter / With contributions     WC819 words   PD16 October 1998   SNWomen's Wear Daily   SCWWD   PG2   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 1998 Fairchild Publications, Inc. All Rights Reserved  
   LPfrom Joanna Ramey, Washington  

NEW YORK -- With investors apparently seeing a potential lift  
   TDto consumer spending, many retail stocks shared in the Wall  

Street surge Thursday after the Federal Reserve sliced into  

interest rates.  

The Dow Jones Industrial Average roared ahead 330.58 points to  

close at 8299.36, a 4.15 percent gain.  

Among the big retail winners were Gap, gaining 3 7/8 to 60 1/2;  

Wal-Mart, 3 1/2 to 64 5/8; Dayton Hudson, 3 3/4 to 43 5/8, and  

Kohl's Corp., 4 13/16 to 44 7/8.  

High-end and luxury firms also scored. Tiffany & Co. pushed  

ahead 5 5/8 to 34 1/8; Nordstrom, 2 1/4 to 27 3/4; Gucci Group,  

1 7/16 to 34 3/4, and Neiman Marcus Group, 15/16 to 18 1/4.  

Department stores on the upswing were Federated Department  

Stores, 1 3/4 to 40; J.C. Penney, 1 9/16 to 47 3/4; Saks Inc., 1  

5/8 to 22 1/2; Sears, Roebuck, 1 to 40 3/16; May Department  

Stores, 1 5/16 to 57 15/16 and Dillard's, 1 1/2 to 31 1/2.  

Among beauty firms, Estee Lauder climbed 4 7/16 to 59 5/16,  

while Revlon added 7/16 to 13 1/4.  

The Fed cut the Fed fund target 25 basis points to 5 percent and  

the discount rate 25 basis points to 4.75 percent.  

The afternoon announcement was a surprise, because the Fed  

doesn't usually cut rates between regularly scheduled meetings  

of the Federal Open Market Committee. The Fed last cut rates 25  

basis points at its regularly scheduled meeting Sept. 29.  

The Dow's dramatic rise Thursday follows Wednesday's gain of  

30.64 to 7,968.78 but cannot yet be termed an upward trend. The  

Dow was down 63 points Tuesday to close at 7,938.14, and has  

been on a roller coaster ride for months.  

Lee Backus at Buckingham Research, said: ``It was a surprise to  

me that the Fed was lowering rates [today], and that had a major  

impact on psychology. Retail stocks were lifted because the  

investment community thinks consumer condidence will come back  

with the Fed's actions.  

``The Fed took action necessary to insure that we don't talk  

ourselves into a recession. This is a very schizophrenic market  

and it takes very little to send it one way or another,'' Backus  

said.  

Steve Kernkraut, Bear Stearns, highlighted another possible  

reason for the uptick in retail stocks in addition to the  

interest rate cut: Retail sales in October, he said, indicate  

that September's mixed results were more related to the weather  

than lagging consumer confidence, as was feared.  

Other retailers gaining ground Thursday were several specialty  

chains, including American Eagle Outfitters, up 1 1/8 to 34 1/8;  

Ann Taylor, 1 3/8 to 26 7/16; Intimate Brands International, 2  

1/8 to 22 1/8; Talbots, 2 7/8 to 18 and Abercrombie & Fitch, 1  

11/16 to 37 1/8.  

Kmart gained 1 7/16 to 13 1/2; Ross Stores added 3 1/2 to 33 and  

Dollar General rose 1 7/8 to 23 7/8.  

Vendors partaking in the rally included Tommy Hilfiger, adding 3  

1/4 to 38 5/16; VF Corp., 2 13/16 to 36 13/16; Polo Ralph  

Lauren, 1 7/8 to 23 1/4; Liz Claiborne, 1 5/16 to 28 13/16;  

Nike, 1 1/16 to 39 15/16 and Donna Karan, 11/16 to 6 1/8.  

Commenting on the apparel stocks, Brenda Gall, Merrill Lynch,  

said the group was under pressure from yearend selling by  

institutions, adding that investors get nervous about this group  

in a tough market. She said the group had been beaten down to  

unjustifiably low levels given their earnings outlooks, and some  

of the stocks gained Thursday as investors took advantage of  

bargains.  

Meanwhile, decliners among fashion stocks included St. John  

Knits, easing 1/2 to 13 1/2; Nautica Enterprises, 5/16 to 18  

5/16, and Stage Stores, 1 3/8 to 12 1/2.  

In a statement on its action, the Fed cited a need to stimulate  

lending ``to sustain economic growth in the context of contained  

inflation.''  

The Fed's move followed the morning release of the government's  

wholesale price report, which clearly demonstrated how U.S.  

manufacturers are continuing to cut or hold the line on prices.  

The price crunch is largely viewed as a reaction to the global  

economic slump, forcing U.S. manufacturers, like apparel and  

textile makers, to compete with low-priced imports. Shrinking  

export markets are also cutting into sales and depressing prices  

further.  
   COdayhud : Target Corporation | feds : Macy's Incorporated | guci : Gucci Group NV | kohldp : Kohl's Corp | mayds : May Department Stores Co | nmanm : Neiman Marcus, Inc. | penyjc : JC Penney Company Inc | pfftt : Saks Inc | tfany : Tiffany & Co. | prntmp : PPR SA   INi453 : Clothing | i64 : Retail/Wholesale | i654 : Specialty Stores | i6540028 : Jewelry Stores | i656 : Mixed Retailing | i6560002 : Department Stores | iclt : Clothing/Textiles | icnp : Consumer Products | iluxgds : Luxury Goods   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | m11 : Equity Markets | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ecat : Economic News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBFairchild Publications, Inc.   ANDocument WWD0000020040515duag00g5c  

HDNewscast:  Federal Reserve  lowers interest rates again   WC311 words   PD16 October 1998   SNNBC News: Today   SCTODA   LAEnglish   CY(c) Copyright 1998, NBC Universal Inc. All Rights Reserved.    
   LPANN CURRY, anchor:

This morning, overseas markets are picking off where Wall Street left off. Prices jumped on the Asian markets today gaining more than 2 percent in Japan. Stocks soared in Hong Kong and are also rallying in Europe this morning after a big jump in the Dow, up 330 points Thursday. All of this because of the surprise interest rate cut from the Fed. NBC's chief financial correspondent Mike Jensen has details now.
   TDMIKE JENSEN reporting:

Nine days ago in Washington, Fed chairman Alan Greenspan sent out a very clear signal.

Mr. ALAN GREENSPAN: This is a time for monetary policy to be especially alert.

JENSEN: Translation? `We're going to cut interest rates and it could be soon.' Thursday, Greenspan pulled the trigger, not even waiting for the Fed's next official meeting a month from now, and cutting not just one rate, but two, each by a quarter of a percentage point.

Mr. JIM PIZZO (CIBC Oppenheimer): I think the Fed chose to cut the rate at this time because it may have seen further weakness in the economy.

JENSEN: Thirty-year, fixed-rate mortgages, now averaging 6.9 percent, are expected to drop by a quarter of a point. Fifteen-year, fixed-rate mortgages now at 6.6 are also expected to come down a quarter of a point. Auto loan rates, now averaging 8.6 percent, will also come down, and so will credit cards with a variable rate, now at 16 percent. The rate cut turned a good day on Wall Street into a great one--the Dow soaring 330 points. Analysts say if the economy keeps edging toward recession, the Fed will probably cut rates again, doing everything it can to keep this extraordinary period of economic growth alive. Mike Jensen, NBC News, New York.
   COcimba : Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce   INi814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSntra : Transcript | e1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBBurrelle?? Information Services   ANDocument TODA000020120224duag01bwi  

HDAnalysis: Ron Insana discusses effects of  Federal Reserve  lowering interest rates again   WC593 words   PD16 October 1998   SNNBC News: Today   SCTODA   LAEnglish   CY(c) Copyright 1998, NBC Universal Inc. All Rights Reserved.    
   LPKATIE COURIC, co-host:

On CLOSE UP this morning, the Federal Reserve's interest rate cut. As we've noted, the unexpected rate cut Thursday, the second in less that three weeks, powered government bonds ahead and pushed the Dow Jones average to its third biggest point gain in history. Ron Insana follows the markets for CNBC. He joins us this morning.
   TDHi, Ron.

RON INSANA reporting:

Hi, Katie.

COURIC: So was this a surprise?

INSANA: Yeah, the timing of it was certainly a surprise. The Federal Reserve very rarely makes a decision on interest rates between regularly scheduled meetings where it decides on the cost of money. It has been rumored for the last week that the Federal Reserve might act. In fact, that's one of the reasons the stock market rallied since the middle of the day last Thursday through yesterday, but the timing of it was--was a little unusual.

COURIC: But Alan Greenspan had been sort of dropping hints, hadn't he?

INSANA: He had been dropping hints. We had seen some conflicting comments coming from other Federal Reserve officials recently, but there was a clear signal coming from the Fed that the cost of money had to come down.

COURIC: All right. So why? Why did the Fed do it?

INSANA: Well, Wall Street's been having a great deal of difficulty behind the scenes. There's been a lot of trouble among hedge funds that we've talked about in the past, big sophisticated investment shops. Banks and brokers haven't been lending a lot of money to clients. And the Federal Reserve was worried that if there was a credit crunch on Wall Street, it could spread to main street and slow the economy down dramatically.

COURIC: So what does this mean for the average investor?

INSANA: It's actually pretty good news. There's some old sayings on Wall Street, one of which is `Don't fight the Fed.' It means that you don't sell stocks when the Federal Reserve is cutting interest rates. It's usually a big prop to the stock market. And if the Fed were to cut interest rates three times in a row, it's already done so twice, the stock market tends to perform very well historically in--in the advent of--of those rate cuts.

COURIC: Well, any advice for investors? Just sort of hold fast?

INSANA: Well, a lot of things they should be watching, you know, in the days and weeks ahead--the performance of the stock market. If it continues to act well, if bonds continue to act well, and interest rates continue to fall, it's really good news for stock market investors.

COURIC: You and I have talked about the R word. Does this alter the forecast for a recession at all?

INSANA: It may. The Fed is acting pre-emptively. It's moving ahead of the economic curve and cutting interest rates to keep a recession from really gripping the US economy. Probably still see a slowdown in the months ahead, but the Fed is working to keep it from turning into that--that R word you talked about.

COURIC: All right. Ron Insana of CNBC. Ron, thanks so much. Nice tie.

INSANA: Thanks, Katie.

COURIC: And a reminder you can follow the stock market all day on CNBC on cable. It's coming up on 7:11. Now hears Matt.

MATT LAUER, co-host:

Katie, thank you.
   COfed : Federal Reserve Board   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | mntdbt : National Government Debt/Bond Markets | nanl : Analysis | ntra : Transcript | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBBurrelle?? Information Services   ANDocument TODA000020120224duag01bwb  



 SENEWS   HDDOW SOARS ON FED RATE CUT ; ANALYSTS FEAR GREENSPAN EXPECTS TROUBLE     BYBy Jim Gallagher Of The Post-Dispatch     WC1,028 words   PD16 October 1998   SNSt. Louis Post-Dispatch   SCSLMO   EDEDITION: FIVE STAR LIFT   PGPAGE: A1   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 1998, St. Louis Post-Dispatch.  All Rights Reserved.  
   LPWorried about a credit crunch, the Federal Reserve cut short-term interest rates again Thursday, sending stocks soaring and handing a bonus to borrowers.  

The Dow Jones Industrial Average jumped 331 points, to 8299, in its third biggest point increase.  
   TDThe Fed surprised Wall Street by suddenly shaving a quarter of a percentage point off the short-term Federal Funds rate, bringing it to 5 percent. It was the second quarter-point cut in 16 days.  

Four big banks immediately cut their prime lending rates by a quarter of a point, to 8 percent.  

If other banks join in, it will mean immediate savings for many companies with loans linked to the base business lending rate. It also will mean a break for people with credit card debt and home equity loans, w hich usually are linked to the prime.  

A quarter-point drop saves about $5 a year for a person with $2,000 in credit card debt.  

Thursday's Fed rate cut was a surprise. It was the first time in four years that the Fed has changed rates between regular meetings of its open markets committee.  

The Fed cited "growing caution by lenders, and unsettled conditions in financial markets," which are likely to slow demand for goods and services.  

A rate cut was warranted "to sustain economic growth in the context of contained inflation," the Fed said.  

The sudden move may mean that Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan sees serious trouble ahead, some analysts said.  

"Alan Greenspan is saying, `Oh, gee! There really is a credit crunch, and oh, God! Market liquidity is really frightening,' " said Juli Niemann, an analyst with Huntleigh Securities in Clayton.  

A lack of liquidity means that few people want to buy stocks. In a recent survey, bank officers told the Fed they are less willing to lend money as the economy slows.  

Bond investors also are demanding higher interest rates from all but the most credit-worthy corporations.  

Meanwhile, investors have been pouring money into Treasury bonds, considered a haven.  

Greenspan last week had warned of a "fear-induced psychological response" in financial markets and promised to be "especially alert" in setting policy.  

"The Fed is concerned that things could get worse very quickly," said Ken Matheny of Macroeconomic Advisers in Clayton.  

If banks slow lending, business investment and consumer spending will dip. Combine that with falling exports to Asia, and the result could be recession, some analysts say.  

Besides trimming the Federal Funds rate, the Fed also trimmed its discount rate by a quarter point, to 4.75 percent.  

The Federal Funds rate is what banks charge each other on overnight loans, and it influences a broad array of short-term lending rates. The discount rate, considered less important, is the rate banks pay to borrow from the Fed.  

Lower rates can encourage businesses and consumers to borrow and spend more, boosting the economy.  

That gave hope to stock traders, who've been jarred since July by a combination of weakening profits for U.S. corporations and sinking economies in Asia and Russia.  

The rally on Wall Street sent the 30 Dow Industrials up 4.1 percent.  

The Dow was already up more than 100 points when the Fed made its announcement at 2:15 p.m. It soared 200 points more in the next 90 minutes.  

The broader market joined the party. Advances swamped declines 3-1 on active trading on the New York Stock Exchange.  

The technology-laced Nasdaq composite index jumped 70.08 points, or 4.5 percent, to 1,611.05.  

Wall Street took the latest cut as a sign of more cuts to come. They came on the heels of rate cuts in Spain and England.  

"We've had central banks all over the world cutting rates for the last two weeks," said portfolio manager John Bartlett at Commerce Bank. "That means we've probably seen the bottom for stocks."  

But other analysts think traders are rejoicing too quickly. Greenspan's action means he thinks the economy is in trouble, Niemann said, and that can mean shrinking profits.  

"This gives everybody one last chance to dump the financial stocks," she said.  

The rate cut also drove the yield on the bellwether 30-year Treasury bond down to 4.97 percent from 5.03 percent.  

Mortgage rates follow bond rates, and some think the Fed's move could signal lower mortgage rates ahead.  

"The Federal Reserve sent a very positive signal this afternoon by lowering rates, and I expect mortgage rates to drop on the news," said David Lereah, chief economist at the Mortgage Banker Association.  

Economists say the U.S. economy is slowing to a growth rate of about 2 percent from rates of nearly 4 percent in 1996 and 1997.  

J.P. Morgan, the nation's fourth-largest bank, last week predicted a recession in 1999, although most forecasters disagree.  

Until recently, Federal Reserve policy-makers have remained more concerned about containing inflation in the face of labor shortages than about the possibility of a severe weakening in the economy.  

That changed in August, minutes of their meetings indicate, shortly before world financial turmoil spilled over into the United States, prod ucing a sharp correction in stock prices.  

***  

Who is helped  

STOCK INVESTORS: The stock market soared because lower rates make competing investments less attractive.  

BORROWERS: Big banks cut their prime lending rate. This reduces the interest rate in a variety of consumer loans, including home-equity loans and credit cards.  

HOMEOWNERS: Rates dipped on Treasury bonds, which may mean slightly lower mortgage rates.  

EXPORTERS: The dollar fell on foreign exchange markets, which makes U.S.-made goods more competitive overseas.  
   ARTPHOTO | (1) Color Photo by THE ASSOCIATED PRESS - A trader celebrates near the end of Thursday's trading day at the Chicago Mercantile Exchange as the Dow climbed more than 300 points. (2) Photo by THE ASSOCIATED PRESS - A trader at the Pacific Stock Exchange in Los Angeles watches market moves Thursday. Prices at the LA exchange mirrored the sharp rise on Wall Street.     INi81501 : Credit Types/Services | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | npag : Page-One Story | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPDLBIZ | ECONOMY | PRIME RATE | CUT | FEDERAL RESERVE | POLICY RECESSION | INTEREST RATE | PROFITS | EARNINGS | WALL | STREET | MARKET GROWTH RATE | SLOWDOWN | STOCKS | FEDERAL | SECURITIES   PUBSt. Louis Post-Dispatch   ANDocument SLMO000020040608duag00d0j  



 HDPound in pain but US rate cut lifts shares     BYBEN LEAPMAN; LAUREN CHAMBLISS     WC448 words   PD16 October 1998   SNThe Evening Standard   SCNS   EDA   PG33   LAEnglish   CY(c) 1998 Associated Newspapers. All rights reserved  
   LPSTERLING dived and London shares were set to leap as the City prepared for dramatic swings following last night's shock American interest rate cut.  

The quarter-point cut by the US Federal Reserve boosted chances that the Bank of England will cut British rates again next month.  
   TDThe dollar and the pound, which tend to move together and which have been buoyed by high US and British interest rates over the past two years, took a sharp downturn as the prospect of further rate cuts in both countries took its toll.  

After the dollar plunged more than two pfennigs to 1.615 German marks, with most of the loss coming in late New York trading, the pound took a hammering in overnight Asian trading. It was down a pfennig at Dm2.757, just three pfennigs from a new 18-month low.  

The sharp fall in sterling will come as a welcome relief to British exporters battered by the currency's overvalued exchange rate throughout 1997 and 1998.  

Against the dollar, the pound rose a third of a cent to 1.707. The dollar was also in retreat versus the Japanese currency, off more than two yen from its pre-rate cut level at 116.15.  

Financial bookmaker IG Index saw the FT-SE 100 leading share index recording one of its biggest ever one-day gains, rising 179 points to 5235.  

This would add around Pounds 30 billion to the value of leading companies.  

The Federal Reserve's rate cuts - timed as they were with a budget deal and the approval of funds for the International Monetary fund - were seen by Wall Street last night as the missing links in the bridge between the US economy and the rest of the world.  

The movement in Washington to put a market-friendly budget in place, fund the IMF, and adjust monetary policy means America is "doing its part to keep the global economy from sinking," said HSBC Washington Analysis economist H Douglas Lee.  

Many analysts had expected a half-point move when the Fed cut rates a quarter-point last month and applauded chairman Alan Greenspan's decision not to wait until its next scheduled meeting on 17 November.  

"The intra-meeting cut signals that the Federal Reserve is willing to provide liquidity to combat a credit crunch," said Lee. "It helps to mitigate some of the risk aversion spreading around the globe and prevent some of the fire-sale activities by hedge funds the Fed indicated it was worried about when it helped rescue Long-Term Capital."  

Far East markets: P40  
   RF957907026   ARTGREENSPAN: APPLAUDED     NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REeland : England | uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe   IPDFINANCE   PUBAssociated Newspapers   ANDocument NS00000020060410duag00g2a  



 HDCaution, please, when Fed diverts from the path     BYANTHONY HILTON     WC674 words   PD16 October 1998   SNThe Evening Standard   SCNS   EDA   PG33   LAEnglish   CY(c) 1998 Associated Newspapers. All rights reserved  
   LPIT IS VERY unusual for US Federal Reserve chairman Alan Greenspan to divert from a stated path, which makes yesterday's sudden interest rate cut all the more alarming.  

His modest quarter-point reduction in rates in September indicated that America's central bank thought the appropriate response to world events a cautious one, at least until the impact on the US domestic economy became clearer. In a subsequent speech to business leaders, Greenspan reaffirmed that view.  
   TDWhy did he suddenly decide the expected route of an orderly series of rate cuts was not sufficient?  

Rather than wait a month, or even two weeks to view the critical October unemployment numbers, he opted to slash not only the Fed funds rate but the discount rate too.  

The action signals the liquidity crunch in America has moved from mere possibility to real threat in a few weeks. Spreads between Treasuries of different maturities, and between Treasuries and corporate paper have moved to levels usually associated with recession.  

The recent dollar-yen turbulence, caused by hedge fund unwinding, reinforced Fed concerns that the risk aversion that began sweeping the globe when Russia defaulted in late summer was worsening.  

Wall Street, overjoyed at the Fed's obvious willingness to ease the strain, sent equities up sharply.  

Financial stocks rose 6% within minutes of the news. The more proper response, however, would be caution. When Greenspan's Fed does something out of the ordinary, it is not time to cheer.  

TSANG IN TUNE  

DONALD TSANG, Hong Kong's central banker, has been closer than most to the ups and downs of the global financial crisis, but for the past few weeks he has been on his travels to the International Monetary Fund and elsewhere.  

Today, on the last leg before returning home, he was in London, where among others he met Bank of England Governor Eddie George.  

Tsang's ringside seat allows him to speak with considerable authority.  

Ironically, he admits to having become more optimistic in the past few days that a slide into recession can be prevented.  

One reason is that he sees distinct signs of recovery in two of the key economies that collapsed last year.  

In South Korea interest rates are now below where they stood before the crisis began and output and exports are recovering strongly. In Thailand it is a similar story, with good gains in output and exports.  

The only obvious problem, though he did not say so, is the feeling that there is some unfinished business in the fields of banking reform and weeding out of corruption.  

Tsang thinks the region as a whole is bottoming out and the likelihood of another spectacular country collapse is receding. That goes for Hong Kong too, where the local economy is still depressed, but confidence in the durability and sustainability of the peg to the US dollar has returned.  

A second reason for his cheer is the fall in the value of the dollar against the Japanese yen. This may make it harder for Japan to sell its exports, but makes life easier for others in the region. It takes the pressure off China to devalue and helps the recovery of other nations.  

He is also more bullish about Brazil. IMF director Michel Camdessus says the deal to rescue the country will take a few more days to thrash out but is making definite progress, helped by the fact that the IMF now has the money it needs from the US Congress.  

The central bankers all seem to be singing from the same hymn sheet. The message from Tsang is similar to that from Eddie George and Germany's Hans Tietmeyer yesterday and America's Alan Greenspan last week. Clearly the world economy is not out of the woods; clearly the volatility is likely to continue for some time.  

But provided there are no more nasty shocks, things may begin to calm down, confidence return and life get slowly back to normal.  
   RF957907024   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | imf : International Monetary Fund | ecat : Economic News | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPDLEADERS   PUBAssociated Newspapers   ANDocument NS00000020060410duag00g28  



 HD U.S. Rate Cut Sidesteps Credit Crunch - Morgan Stanley    WC442 words   PD16 October 1998   ET09:40   SNDow Jones International News   SCDJI   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 1998, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP HONG KONG (Dow Jones)--The Federal Reserve Board's interest rate cut has significantly reduced the likelihood of recession and credit crunch in the U.S., according to Morgan Stanley Dean Witter & Co.'s chief economist, Stephen Roach. 

 Speaking in Hong Kong on Friday, Roach said "the move by the Federal Reserve Board was a significant, dramatic, unexpected development. It changes a lot." 
   TD What the rate reduction doesn't change, he said, are the significant restructuring needs of many countries, including those in Asia. But it will make their debt burdens lessen. 

 If the Fed had not acted, a U.S. credit crunch "could have easily tipped the U.S. economy into recession" next year, although the risks are still toward the downside next year for the world's biggest economy. He said the U.S. economy is on track to expand 2.3% next year, slightly faster than the worldwide growth of 2.1%, predictions that are unaffected by the Fed move Thursday. 

 As reported, the Fed, for the second time in a month, reduced the Fed Funds target interest rate by 0.25 percentage point. 

 Roach said his reading is that the Fed will reduce the Fed Funds rate by another 0.25 percentage point to 0.50 percentage point by year end, and possibly another 0.50 percentage point early in 1999, bringing that key short-term rate to 4.0% to 4.5%. 

 European countries, characterized by "intransigence" in Germany and France, will need to ease, too, he said. 

 The economist said the Morgan Stanley view now is that the U.S. dollar will trade around the levels of Y120 and DEM1.60-1.65 for the rest of this year. 

 Meanwhile, the firm's chief strategist, Byron Wien, said U.S. stocks have seen their bottom point for the year and the market could end the year flat. 

 He said U.S. corporate earnings will continue to improve in the coming year, although they will grow at a more modest rate than in the past few years. "The market was looking for a good excuse to rally. It got one even better than expected," Wien said. 

 The Morgan Stanley officials said concerns about the systematic risks of hedge funds have been overplayed and they said they doubt that the latest U.S. rate cut was in any way related to emergency concerns about another one. 

 They said the combined assets of hedge funds are about US$400 billion, or about 5.0% of the country's gross domestic product. 

 (END) Dow Jones Newswires 16-10-98 

 0740GMT 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m11 : Equity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REasiaz : Asia | china : China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | easiaz : Eastern Asia | eurz : Europe | fra : France | gfr : Germany | hkong : Hong Kong | medz : Mediterranean | namz : North America | usa : United States | weurz : Western Europe   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument dji0000020010917duag0069x  



 HD U.S. Fed Rate Cut Seen Helping Korean Economy, Exports    WC257 words   PD16 October 1998   ET06:17   SNDow Jones International News   SCDJI   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 1998, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP SEOUL (Dow Jones)--The surprise interest rate cut by the U.S. Federal Reserve is expected to help South Korea's efforts to stimulate its flagging economy by drumming up its exports, a central bank spokesman said Friday. 

 The U.S. central bank trimmed the benchmark Federal Funds and Discount rates by a quarter-percentage point each, bringing them down to 5% and 4.75%, respectively. 
   TD The cuts marked the first time since April 1994 that the U.S. central bank has changed interest rates between formal meetings of its monetary policymaking panel. 

 Chang Byung-hwa, head of domestic economic research of the central Bank of Korea, said the Fed cut will likely to cause the U.S. dollar weaken against the yen, making the Japanese exports less competitive in global markets. 

 Since South Korea competes with Japan on about half of its exports, the stronger yen in comparison to the dollar may allow South Korean exporters to gain a larger market share in the U.S. markets as local products become more competitively priced. 

 Chang also said the U.S. action is expected to stabilize the local currency market as well because investors are expected to flee from the U.S. securities markets and return to Asian markets. 

 The Korean government is pushing to stimulate its beleaguered economy by expanding monetary supply and widening its fiscal deficit. 

 -By Chang Woo-hyuk; 822-732-2165; whchang@ap.org 

 (END) Dow Jones Newswires 16-10-98 

 0417GMT 
   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m11 : Equity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REasiaz : Asia | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | easiaz : Eastern Asia | jap : Japan | namz : North America | skorea : South Korea | usa : United States   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument dji0000020010917duag005zr  



 HD IMF's Fischer/Rates -2: Sees No U.S. Recession    WC201 words   PD16 October 1998   ET04:25   SNDow Jones International News   SCDJI   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 1998, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP HONG KONG (Dow Jones)--The U.S. Federal Reserve Board's latest interest rate reduction demonstrates the aggressiveness that policy makers in Washington are using to ensure the U.S. economy continues to grow, according to Stanley Fischer, first deputy managing director of the International Monetary Fund. 

 In a teleconference with reporters in Hong Kong and Singapore on Friday, Fischer said from Washington that the IMF forecasts no recession for the U.S. this year. 
   TD "The Fed is doing what is necessary by moving aggressively on interest rates to prevent a slowdown being worse than (the IMF forecast), and Europe again seems to be seized with a need to take action," the official said. 

 Fischer said the Fed is likely to study data from the third quarter in considering whether U.S. interest rates should be lowered again. "We're operating now very much on the basis of expectations of what is happening in the third and fourth quarters. Third quarter data is about to come in. If that's very bad, then you can imagine the Fed taking another look," Fischer said. 

 (MORE) Dow Jones Newswires 16-10-98 

 0225GMT 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | imf : International Monetary Fund | m11 : Equity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument dji0000020010917duag005vr  



 HD Fed Watchdog: Rate Cut Based On Uncertain Economic Forecast    WC206 words   PD16 October 1998   ET19:51   SNDow Jones News Service   SCDJ   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 1998, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP NEW YORK (Dow Jones)--The Federal Reserve's interest rate cut was a mistake because it was based on an uncertain global economic forecast, according to Allan Meltzer, chairman of the Shadow Open Market Committee. 

 "The automobile and housing sectors are growing very nicely so an interest rate cut at this time seems to be throwing the wrong kind of message, the wrong kind of signal and the wrong kind of action," Meltzer said in a CNBC interview Friday. 
   TD The head of the Fed watchdog group said economic forecasts are unreliable, especially it they have a six-month outlook. 

 "It may be that the economy will slow down but we haven't seen the signs of that yet," Meltzer said. 

 The Fed could have saved struggling hedge funds by opening the discount window to allow reliable funds with good collateral to borrow money. 


"The big problem for the Fed is if their forecast is wrong they are
going to be in a box where they will face some rising unemployment at
the same time they are facing some rising inflation," Meltzer said.
   -Amy Hughes 201-938-5171



(END) DOW JONES NEWS  10-16-98



01:51 PM

   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nitv : Interview   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument dj00000020010916duag098j5  



 HD Fed OKs Final 3 Fed Bank Requests For Discount Cut    WC120 words   PD16 October 1998   ET22:41   SNCapital Markets Report   SCCM   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 1998, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP WASHINGTON (Dow Jones)--The Federal Reserve Board Friday approved requests from the Federal Reserve Banks of Cleveland, Richmond and Dallas to reduce the discount rate at those banks from 5.00% to 4.75% effective Friday. 

 The move brings the branches in line with the other nine Fed district banks, which made the same request Thursday. 
   TD The discount rate is the interest rate that is charged to depositary institutions when they borrow from their district Federal Reserve Banks. 

 The Fed's approval of the banks' requests is considered a formality because the Fed Board's action Thursday applied to the entire system. 

 (END) Dow Jones Newswires  10-16-98 

 1641EDT 
   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument cm00000020010916duag02fn7  



 HD U.S. Tsys Bounce Back From Lows At Midday; 30-Yr Dn 7/32    WC408 words   PD16 October 1998   ET18:10   SNCapital Markets Report   SCCM   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 1998, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP NEW YORK (Dow Jones)--U.S. Treasurys rebounded from early lows and were mostly higher midday Friday amid continued concerns about the financial system, as market participants continue to try and sort out the impetus for Thursday's surprise Federal Reserve interest rate cut. 

 At noon EDT, the benchmark 30-year bond was down 7/32 at 108 2/32 to yield 4.98%. 
   TD Treasurys bounced off session lows even as the Dow Jones Industrial Average was up in the 100-point range Friday morning. 

 "I think traders are still wondering if there are bad things going on behind the scenes that they'll find out next week," said Josh Stiles, fixed income strategist at IDEA in New York. 

 Market participants said that more rumors of problems in the banking sector helped fuel a strong bid in the short-end late morning Friday. 

 Observers added that the dollar has come up from session lows versus the yen, giving some support to the long end. Meanwhile, market focus is also on spreads between Treasurys and other fixed income instruments as well as any signs of stability in Latin America. 

 The market largely ignored bond-friendly data on consumer prices and industrial production. 

 The CPI was unchanged with a 0.2% gain in the core rate excluding food and energy, generally below analysts' forecasts. 

 At 9:15 a.m. EDT, the Fed reported a 0.3% decline in September industrial production, below economists' projections for a 0.2% gain. 

 "Economic news is of secondary importance," said one trader, adding that the market is still "trying to sort out why the urgency" for the Fed's surprise rate move Thursday. 


Also on Friday, the University of Michigan mid-October consumer
sentiment report was said to have declined to 98.9 from 100.9 in
September, due to a slide in expectations, according to sources who saw
the report.
   4 1/2%   2-year     101  9/32  up   1/32  3.80%
   5 1/4%   5-year     105 15/32  up   1/32  3.99%
   5 5/8%  10-year     109 16/32  up   2/32  4.41%
   5 1/2%  30-year     108  2/32  dn   7/32  4.98%
   2-30-yr yield spread: 118 BPS vs 114 BPS
 - By Brian Blackstone; 201-938-4156



(END) Dow Jones Newswires  10-16-98



1210EDT

   RF1079 4041 44460   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REeurz : Europe | namz : North America | uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | weurz : Western Europe   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument cm00000020010916duag02fe3  



 HD Tsys Lower; Ignores Bond-Friendly Data; 30-Yr Dn 30/32    WC392 words   PD16 October 1998   ET15:41   SNCapital Markets Report   SCCM   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 1998, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP NEW YORK (Dow Jones)--U.S. Treasurys were lower early Friday, as investors await further financial market reactions from Thursday's surprise interest rate cut by the Federal Reserve. 

 The market largely ignored bond-friendly data on consumer prices and industrial production. 
   TD At 9:30 a.m. EDT, the benchmark 30-year bond was down 30/32 at 107 11/32 to yield 5.02%. 

 Market participants expect the market to take its cues largely from N.Y. stocks - which opened higher - as well as movements in credit spreads between Treasurys and other fixed income instruments. Any significant narrowing of credit spreads could damp expectations of further rate cuts, analysts said. 

 Traders also said they are eying movements in commodity prices and the dollar. 

 Earlier Friday, the Labor Department released generally on-target consumer price data for September. The CPI was unchanged with a 0.2% gain in the core rate excluding food and energy. 

 The median forecast of economists surveyed by Dow Jones Newswires and CNBC was for a 0.1% gain in the overall rate and a 0.2% advance in the core rate excluding food and energy. 

 There was minimal reaction in the Treasurys market, analysts said. 

 "The interesting developments were the contrast to the (producer price index)" which posted an unexpectedly high 0.3% increase in September, observed Henry Willmore, an economist at Barclay's Capital. He noted that the big increase in the automobile component in the PPI didn't translare into the CPI. 

 At 9:15 a.m. EDT, the Fed reported a 0.3% decline in September industrial production, below analysts' forecasts for a 0.2% gain. 


"Economic news is of secondary importance," said one trader, adding
that the market is "trying to sort out why the urgency" for the Fed's
surprise rate move.
   4 1/2%   2-year     101  3/32  dn   5/32  3.90%
   5 1/4%   5-year     105  2/32  dn  12/32  4.08%
   5 5/8%  10-year     109  2/32  dn  12/32  4.45%
   5 1/2%  30-year     107 11/32  dn  30/32  5.02%
   2-30-yr yield spread: 112 BPS vs 114 BPS
 - By Brian Blackstone; 201-938-4156



(END) Dow Jones Newswires  10-16-98



0941EDT

   RF1079 4041 44460   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REeurz : Europe | namz : North America | uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | weurz : Western Europe   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument cm00000020010916duag02f4w  



 HD U.S. Treasurys Outlook: Market Eyes Stocks And Dollar    WC396 words   PD16 October 1998   ET14:07   SNCapital Markets Report   SCCM   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 1998, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP NEW YORK (Dow Jones)--U.S. Treasurys will be influenced by a number of factors Friday, including continued bond market reaction to Thursday's surprise interest rate cut by the Federal Reserve as well as the fallout in equity and foreign exchange markets. 

 The market will also be looking for clues as to whether Thursday's move will be followed by monetary policy easing in other regions, particularly Europe, analysts say. 
   TD Thursday's 0.25 percentage point cut in both the Fed funds target rate and the discount rate fueled a sharp rally in the Treasurys market Thursday, led by gains in the short-end. Analysts generally expect the market to come off some from the highs reached Thursday. 

 In overseas trading, Treasurys were modestly lower Friday, as rallies in European stock markets prompted a shift out of Treasaurys into stocks. 

 "If the (New York) stock market rallies it'll put pressure on short-term Treasurys," said Mike Franzese, a trader at Zions First National Bank Capital Markets in Jersey City. 

 Observers said they will also keep an eye on the dollar, which lost ground on news of the rate cut. At 8:00 a.m. EDT, the dollar was quoted at Y113.85, down from Y116.25 late Thursday in New York. The dollar was fetching DEM1.6111, down from DEM1.6170. 

 At 8:30 a.m. EDT, the Labor Department is scheduled to release the September consumer price report. The median forecast of economists surveyed by Dow Jones Newswires and CNBC is a 0.1% gain in the overall rate and a 0.2% advance in the core rate excluding food and energy. 


At 9:15 a.m. EDT, the Fed is scheduled to release September industrial
production data. Analysts surveyed by Dow Jones Newswires forecast a
meager 0.2% gain in September following August's General Motors-boosted
1.7% increase.
   4 1/2%   2-year     101  7/32  dn   1/32  3.85%
   5 1/4%   5-year     105  8/32  dn   6/32  4.04%
   5 5/8%  10-year     109  4/32  dn  10/32  4.45%
   5 1/2%  30-year     107 31/32  dn  10/32  4.98%
   2-30-yr yield spread: 113 BPS vs 114 BPS



(MORE) Dow Jones Newswires  10-16-98



0807EDT

   RF1079 4041 44460   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REeurz : Europe | namz : North America | uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | weurz : Western Europe   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument cm00000020010916duag02f0d  



 HD CORRECTION: U.S. Discount Rate Cut From 5.00%, Not 4.50%    WC69 words   PD16 October 1998   ET12:51   SNCapital Markets Report   SCCM   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 1998, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP The U.S. Federal Reserve Board Thursday cut the federal funds interest rate to 5.0%, from 5.25%, and the discount rate to 4.75%, from 5.00%. 

 (In an item timed at around 1026 GMT, the previous level of the discount rate was misstated.) 
   TD (END) Dow Jones Newswires  10-16-98 

 0651EDT 
   RF1079 4041 44460   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REeurz : Europe | namz : North America | uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | weurz : Western Europe   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument cm00000020010916duag02ey7  



 HD U.S. Treasurys In London Down, 30-Yr Down 10/32    WC383 words   PD16 October 1998   ET12:26   SNCapital Markets Report   SCCM   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 1998, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP
   LONDON (Dow Jones)--U.S. Treasury prices are lower Friday midmorning
in London as traders and investors digest the surprise news of a U.S.
interest rate cut.



The U.S. Federal Reserve Board Thursday cut the federal funds interest
rate to 5.0%, from 5.25%, and the discount rate to 4.75%, from 4.50%.
The move caught financial markets by surprise as it came without a
scheduled meeting of the rate-setting monetary policy committee.

   TD The bellwether 30-year U.S. Treasury was trading at 107 31/32, down 10/32, to yield 4.99%. 

 While the cut makes equities look attractive at the expense of safe-haven government bonds, market watchers warned that sentiment could swing back in favor of bond markets. The Dow Jones Industrial Average rallied more than 330 points Thursday, boosted in large measure by the rate cut. Meanwhile, most of Europe's key stock market indexes were sharply higher early Friday. 

 "We'll have to see equity markets retreat before we see bond markets go back up," a London-based dealer at a large, U.S. investment bank said. 

 However, this dealer said that the cut will eventually lead to further gains for bonds as safe havens, once equity investors realize that the cut signals deep worry for the global economy by the Fed. "If you take the view of the Fed cutting (as an indication) that they know something we don't," stocks will falter, she said. 

 At the Chicago Board of Trade, the December bond futures contract recently traded at 129-26, up 1 2/32 from the previous close. 


At 1000 GMT in London, the dollar was quoted at Y114.25, down from
Y116.25 late Thursday in New York, and at DEM1.6140, down from
DEM1.6170.
   4 1/2%   2-year     101 03/32  dn  03/32  3.91%
   5 1/4%   5-year     105 07/32  dn  07/32  4.05%
   5 5/8%  10-year     109 04/32  dn  10/32  4.44%
   5 1/2%  30-year     107 31/32  dn  10/32  4.99%
   2-30-yr yield spread: 108 BPS vs 114 BPS



(MORE) Dow Jones Newswires  10-16-98



0626EDT

   RF1079 4041 44460   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REeurz : Europe | namz : North America | uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | weurz : Western Europe   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument cm00000020010916duag02exh  



 HD U.S. Swaps: Spreads Ease As Stocks Climb; Bonds Ease    WC279 words   PD16 October 1998   ET23:39   SNCapital Markets Report   SCCM   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 1998, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP NEW YORK (Dow Jones)--Swap spreads eased Friday as the stock market advanced and Treasurys gave back some of their recent gains. 

 Early in the day, swaps traders struggled to find levels which were very much in question following the Federal Reserve interest rate cut late Thursday afternoon. 
   TD "Last night after the interest rate cut spreads eased a lot," one trader said. "And then we walked in this morning they were firmer before tapering off as the day went on." 

 The intermediate portion of the swaps curve gave back three points while the short end remained relatively stable. 

 Swap spreads continue to trade in the opposite direction of stock prices. With the Dow Jones Industrial Average up more than 100 points, swap spreads finished lower. 

 Also, bid/ask prices returned to recent norms from the six basis point difference seen in some issues during the late-Thursday chaos. 

 The 10- to seven-year portion of the swaps curve remains inverted. 

 The 10-year swap spread ended in by 3.5 basis points at a midmarket level of 89.5 basis points. 

 Sevens tightened by three basis points to a mid of 91 basis points. 

 The five year swap spread softened by three basis points to 90.5 basis points. 

 Three-year swap spreads tightened by 1.5 basis points to 75.5 basis points. 

 Twos ended in by a half basis point at a midmarket level of 68.5 basis points. 

 Traders expect swaps to continue to trade at levels close to these given the ongoing concerns about credit quality. 

 (MORE) Dow Jones Newswires  10-16-98 

 1739EDT 
   RF4275   NSc17 : Funding/Capital | c172 : Corporate Debt Instruments | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m15 : Derivative Securities | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument cm00000020010916duag02evt  

HD Rise in Mortgage Rate Shocks Borrowers, Lenders    BY Rob Kitchel    WC496 words   PD15 October 1998   ET22:59   SNKRTBN Knight-Ridder Tribune Business News: The Macon (Ga.) Telegraph   SCKRTBN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright (C) 1998 KRTBN Knight Ridder Tribune Business News; Source: World Reporter (TM)
   LP Oct. 15--Shoppers waiting for the lowest interest rate possible before buying that dream house may be in for a shock: Mortgage rates have taken a turn for the worse. 

 Many expected to see rates fall after the Federal Reserve shaved a quarter point off short-term interest rates Sept. 29, but a poor week for mortgage-backed securities and turmoil in international financial markets caused the unexpected rate hike. 
   TD The increase brought the national average on a 30-year, fixed-rate mortgage to 7.04 percent, after more than a month of hovering around 6.5 percent, according to HSH Associates, a Butler, N.J., firm that tracks mortgage rates nationwide. 

 "If you needed 6.5 percent to make (refinancing) viable and you didn't lock in, thinking rates would go down, you just lost your opportunity to refinance," said Keith T. Gumbinger, vice president of HSH. "The truth is that interest rates fell too far too fast, and when that happens, you're susceptible to this kind of snap back." 

 But even at 7.04 percent, rates are still near their lowest in about 30 years. Because rates are so attractive, the refinancing market, even more than the new home market, has been especially busy. Until this week, some homeowners looking to refinance said lenders were so busy, it was hard to get through on the phone or get a call returned. 

 "It's cooled off some now, but many people still want to refinance," said Ann Waller, vice president for lending at Premier Lending Corp. in Warner Robins. "I think we'll see improvement in the rate later in the week. People shouldn't wait too long if they want to refinance." 

 Premier's rate Tuesday was 7 percent for a 30-year loan. 

 "We had a tremendous influx of refinancing in the last couple of weeks," said Linda Shingler, vice president of mortgage lending for Security National Bank, which had a 30-year rate as low as 6.125 last week. "Obviously (the rate increase) stopped some of that upswing, but it's still a great time to refinance for people who have rates in the eights." 

 SNB's rate is currently 6.75 percent, but Shingler said she thinks it's likely to drop again in the next couple of months. 

 Many lenders give a 90-day grace period after a loan is applied for before the borrower has to accept it. The borrower has the option to lock in the rate at any time during that period. 

 "That gives people time to decide and wait to see if the rate drops again," Shingler said. "And I do think it will go back down, but it's hard to say how quickly. It jumps up fast, but it takes a while to go back down." 

 Knight Ridder Newspapers contributed to this report. 

 -- 

 Visit The Macon Telegraph ONLINE, at http://www.macontelegraph.com/
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REasiaz : Asia | gulfstz : Persian Gulf Regions | meastz : Middle East | namz : North America | qatar : Qatar | usa : United States | wasiaz : Western Asia   IPDInterest Rates | Economic Indicators | Economic News | Mortgage Rates | United States of America, Americas~US | Americas | North America | Pacific Rim   ANDocument krtbn00020010917duaf013cr  



 HD Consumer Price Index Expected To Show September Rise Of 0.1%    WC884 words   PD15 October 1998   ET18:55   SNDow Jones Online News   SCDJON   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 1998, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- Consumer prices are expected to show scant inflationary pressures in the U.S. in September and should pose no threat to a more relaxed monetary policy, analysts said. 

 Many analysts and financial markets are anticipating a further interest-rate cut from the Federal Reserve, which reduced short-term rates by one-quarter point late last month. Any signs of impending inflation likely would make Fed policy-makers apprehensive about further easing. 
   TD Thursday's unexpected increase in the automobile component of the producer-price index means there is a slight upward risk to the core CPI, economists say. Passenger-car costs rose 2.2% in the September PPI, the biggest jump since 1990. PPI data were released earlier Thursday. 

 September's CPI is seen rising 0.1%, with the core rate, which excludes the volatile energy and food sectors, expected to post a 0.2% monthly gain, according to the mean estimate of 16 economists surveyed by Dow Jones Newswires and CNBC. 

 The Labor Department is scheduled to release the consumer-price report at 8:30 a.m. EDT Friday. 

 "We are not seeing any renewed signs of inflationary pressures in the producer price index or the consumer price index," said Veronika White, an economist with First Union Corp. in Philadelphia, who predicts a 0.1% rise in the overall CPI and a 0.3% increase in the core rate. But she added that if energy prices rebound in the fourth quarter, that might create some upward pressure on CPI in the last three months of the year. 

 White had called for a 0.2% gain in the core CPI but nudged it up to 0.3% following the PPI release Thursday. 

 The core PPI increased 0.4% in September, but, excluding auto prices, was only up 0.1%, analysts observed. 

 Auto prices shouldn't have as big an impact on the CPI reading, since changes in auto prices tend to be less volatile in the CPI report than the PPI, White said. 

 "The measurements of the CPI are done somewhat differently" from the PPI, White explained. "The PPI is a point-in-time estimate, as compared to an average." 

 The expected price rise in most CPI components should be muted, according to analysts at Donald, Lufkin & Jenrette Securities. But, apparel and medical-care costs likely recorded another solid advance, stated the firm's analysis. Medical care increased at a 3.5% pace in the year ended in August, while overall costs only gained 1.6%, according to the firm. 

 In the subindexes, analysts at Market Data Corp. expect the core CPI - forecast by the firm to increase 0.3% - to be boosted by gains in the education and communications components as a result of the start of the school year. 

 Though September's data are likely to continue to reflect the benefits of cheap imports and weak commodity prices, the recent firming of crude-oil prices and the move downward of the dollar against key currencies implies a modest increase in inflation during the the fourth quarter, according to NationsBanc Montgomery Securities. A declining dollar makes foreign goods more expected to U.S. consumers. 

 Many analysts don't expect the market to react much, if at all, to the economic figures Friday as traders and investors remain preoccupied with the unpredictable global financial markets. 

 Meanwhile, industrial production is expected to have grown more modestly in September after a surge in automotive production fueled a strong gain in August. 

 The mean estimate of 12 economists surveyed by Dow Jones Newswires and CNBC is for a 0.2% increase in September industrial production. 

 Industrial production jumped 1.7% in August as motor-vehicle assemblies jumped 40% with the settlement of the 54-day General Motors Corp. strike this summer. 

 Despite the slight increase expected in industrial production, the capacity-utilization rate is expected to have slipped to 81.5% in September from 81.7% in August. 

 The Federal Reserve is scheduled to release September industrial-production and capacity-utilization figures Friday at 9:15 a.m. EDT. 

 Forecasts for industrial-production growth range from a drop of 0.1% to a 0.3% increase, while capacity-utilization-rate predictions vary from 81.3% to 81.7%. 

 Salomon Smith Barney, with forecasts at the low end of the range for each indicator, expects a decrease in automotive manufacturing and mining output to result in an overall drop in industrial production. "We're looking for continued weakness in manufacturing activity and a pullback in mining output," said Salomon Smith Barney Economist Brian Jones. 

 Economists at Donaldson Lufkin & Jenrette also expect weakness in mining activity but predict that strength in utilities will offset that decline, leaving the overall index flat for the month. DLJ economists see capacity utilization falling to 81.4%. 

 NationsBanc Montgomery Securities, Barclays Capital and Technical Data are all at the high end of the range for both industrial production and capacity utilization. "I think that the manufacturing sector has some growth left in it," said NationsBanc economist Peter Kretzmer. "It's not shrinking, while obviously it's flattened out a good deal in recent months," he said. 

 Copyright (c) 1998 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument djon000020020329duaf01ch9  



 HD Analysts Say Inflation Remains Tame Despite Jump In Wholesale Prices    WC1,149 words   PD15 October 1998   ET14:43   SNDow Jones Online News   SCDJON   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 1998, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP WASHINGTON -(Dow Jones)- Wholesale prices surged 0.3% in September, the largest increase in a year, the Labor Department reported Thursday. However, analysts said glitches in the data masked a tame inflation outlook. 

 The overall gain in the producer price index, as well as a 0.4% jump in the core index that excludes food and energy, included an outsized 2.2% increase in passenger-vehicle prices - the biggest rise since September 1990. Analysts noted that auto prices were adjusted for end-of-model year discounting that typically occurs in September. This year, however, car makers slashed prices in August. 
   TD Excluding autos, "It's a continued favorable inflation outlook," said Donaldson Lufkin & Jenrette economist Marilyn Schaja. "It pretty much fits with about 1% to 2% inflation on the producer level." 

 When the higher car and light-truck prices are removed from the picture, September's overall and core PPI would have edged up just 0.1%, Schaja said. For the first nine months of the year, the overall index for finished goods has declined a seasonally adjusted 0.8%, after falling 1.2% for all of 1997, the Labor Department said. 

 Analysts said the September producer-price report wasn't likely to change the Federal Reserve's stance on interest-rate policy, since Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan has said that the danger of a slowing U.S. economy is now greater than the threat of inflation. Indeed, later in the day, the Fed announced its second policy easing in just over two weeks, cutting its federal-funds target rate and its discount rate by a quarter-point each. The central bank said it acted because of indications that tightening credit and financial-market turmoil are cutting into consumer and business spending. In its explanation, the central bank said the move was "warranted to sustain economic growth in the context of contained inflation." 

 The producer-price data also indicated some firming in energy prices, which have fallen for much of the year because of a financial contagion that has tipped many Asian countries into recession. Energy prices declined 0.1% in September, after falling 2.3% in August. 

 In a separate release Thursday, the Philadelphia Federal Reserve Bank said its monthly survey of business activity in the region showed manufacturing growth remains stalled and that prices continue to fall. 

 For the second straight month, a greater percentage of manufacturers reported a deterioration in business conditions (27%) than reported improvement (21%), according to the survey. The survey's current-activity index improved to minus 6.1 from minus 13.2, but has now remained negative for two consecutive months, the Philadelphia Fed noted. 

 Weakness in the manufacturing sector has put "significant downward pressure on prices of both manufacturing inputs and manufactured products," the Philadelphia Fed said. 

 Declines in prices of raw materials and other inputs are evident in the decline in the survey's prices paid index, which dropped to minus 14.5, its lowest reading in the 30-year history of the survey, from minus 2.5. The index has remained negative for four consecutive months. 

 Prices of final manufactured goods also declined in October. The current prices-received index remained near its historical low but increased slightly to minus 12.4 from minus 14.4. 

 Firms' forecasts suggest little growth in the manufacturing sector is expected during the next six months, according to the survey. The future general activity index declined to minus 5.1 from minus 3.2 and has remained below zero for five months in a row. 

 In another report Thursday, the Commerce Department said inventories at U.S. businesses rose 0.3% in August, the first increase in three months. The advance came as business sales slumped for the second straight month, falling 0.2%. With July's 0.1% drop, August marked the first time since October and November of 1997 that business sales had fallen for two straight months. 

 Additionally, the inventory-to-sales ratio, a measure of how closely balanced companies are keeping supply and demand, rose to 1.39 in August from 1.38. 

 While the report suggests firms may be seeing some backup in stocks as demand falls, the increase in inventories wasn't as big as many had expected. 

 Before release of the report, analysts predicted inventories would rise by about 0.4%. The settlement of the 54-day General Motors Corp. strike was expected to give inventories a boost after the nation's largest auto maker boosted production to fill model shortages. 

 However, the report seemed to indicate GM didn't entirely succeed in getting its inventories back up to pre-strike levels, as automotive inventories fell 0.4% in August after a 1.0% decline in July. 

 Inventories have been a large swing factor in growth in gross domestic product in recent quarters. The change in business stocks subtracted 2.66 percentage points from growth in the second quarter after contributing 1.22 points in the first quarter. Some analysts see inventories boosting GDP slightly in the third quarter after being worked down in the previous one. 

 As reported in previous releases, wholesale inventories were up 0.9% in August, while factory stocks rose 0.2%. 

 The drop in August business sales was led by a 1.2% decline wholesale sales. Retail business sales were unchanged in July while factory sales rose 0.4%. 

 Separately, the Labor Department said the number of Americans filing first-time claims for unemployment benefits rose 2,000 to 303,000 in the week ended Oct. 10. The increase was slightly below the 5,000 increase that was generally expected. 

 The latest data point to a mild softening of the U.S. labor market as the economy slows amid a global economic contagion. The four-week moving average of claims grew 750 to 297,000, marking the third straight reading under 300,000. Continuing claims advanced 22,000 in the week ended Oct. 3 to 2,203,000. 

 In all, 40 states and territories reported an increase in initial claims for the week of Oct. 3, while 12 states reported a decrease and one state posted no change. 

 In California, claims rose 3,641 during the week as a result of layoffs in the service industry and agriculture. Indiana reported an increase of 3,356 jobless claims because of layoffs in the machinery industry. State officials in Pennsylvania said layoffs in the food, mining, primary metals and trade industries led to a 2,417 rise in claims. 

 North Carolina was the only state to report a decrease of more than 1,000 claims during the Oct. 3 week. State officials there reported 1,284 fewer claims as a result of a drop in layoffs in the food and apparel industries. 

 Copyright (c) 1998 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved. 
   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument djon000020020329duaf01cbe  



 HD =Fed Emergency Rate Cuts Show Credit-Crunch Risk Growing    BY By Joseph Rebello    WC405 words   PD15 October 1998   ET23:36   SNCapital Markets Report   SCCM   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 1998, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP WASHINGTON (Dow Jones)--The Federal Reserve made its first emergency interest-rate cuts in more than four years Thursday, acknowledging tacitly that its rate cut last month wasn't sufficient to defuse a looming U.S. credit crunch. 

 The U.S. central bank trimmed the benchmark Federal Funds and Discount rates by a quarter-percentage point each, bringing them down to 5% and 4.75%, respectively. The cuts marked the first time since April 1994 that the U.S. central bank has changed interest rates between formal meetings of its monetary policymaking panel. 
   TD That panel voted Sept. 29 to trim the benchmark Federal Funds rate a quarter percentage point to 5.25%, but analysts said the cut wasn't deep enough to halt the decline of U.S. stocks and stop U.S. banks from cutting back on loans amid a growing global economic contagion. 

 "They're saying, in hindsight: `Maybe we should have gone 50 basis points,'" said Cary Leahey, an economist with High Frequency Economics. U.S. stock investors immediately registered their approval. The Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 4.15% to 8299.36 points, its highest level in seven weeks. 

 The Fed said it was impelled to act because "growing caution by lenders and unsettled conditions in financial markets" probably will slow the U.S. economy in coming months. Analysts said those conditions were reflected both in the 17% decline of the U.S. dollar against the yen in the last week and in the Fed Funds rate, which opened Thursday at 5.625%, well above the 5.25% rate the Fed had been targeting before Thursday's cut. 

 The Fed Funds rate is the rate charged by U.S. banks for overnight loans to one another. Although the rate moves according to market conditions, the Fed influences it by injecting funds into the U.S. financial system - or draining them when necessary. Analysts said the rate has exceeded the Fed's target because U.S. banks have been expanding reserves on fears that they may need the money if economic contagion infects the U.S. 

 "They're probably getting calls from banks that are not money-center banks that are cutting back on credit," Leahey said. "In other words, the credit crunch is moving from Wall Street to Main Street." 

 (MORE) Dow Jones Newswires  10-15-98 

 1736EDT 
   RF4242   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument cm00000020010916duaf02eoe  

HDNewscast: Fed lowers interest rates again causing stock market rally   WC434 words   PD15 October 1998   SNNBC News: Nightly News   SCNTLN   LAEnglish   CY(c) Copyright 1998, NBC Universal Inc. All Rights Reserved.    
   LPTOM BROKAW, anchor:

The sound you hear tonight is cheering from Wall Street, to large investors and small, cheering for the surprising news late today that interest rates are going down again, the second time in less than three weeks. That set off a buying spree on Wall Street, one of the sharpest one-day point gains ever.
   TD(Stock report follows)

BROKAW: The Dow jumped more than 330 points, the NASDAQ was up more than 70 points, and that is exactly the reaction the Federal Reserve was looking for. We begin tonight with NBC's Mike Jensen on the announcement and what likely lies ahead.

MIKE JENSEN reporting:

Today's surprise rate cut by the Federal Reserve is great news for millions of Americans planning to take out a loan to buy a house or a car, or charge a holiday gift on their credit card. It takes the Fed's key interest rate down to its lowest level in four years. Credit is the lifeblood of the American economy, and the Federal Reserve decided the US needed a transfusion, so it provided a dramatic one, not even waiting for its next official meeting a month from now, and cutting not just one rate but two, each by a quarter of a percentage point.

The federal funds rate, which banks charge one another, cut to 5 percent today after a similar cut just two weeks ago; and the discount rate, which the Fed charges for money it loans to banks, to 4 3/4 percent, the first cut in that rate since 1996. Thirty-year fixed-rate mortgages, now averaging 6.9 percent, are expected to drop by a quarter of a point.

Mr. ALAN BACHMAN (American Home Mortgage Inc.): I think that you'll see interest rates probably hit their all-time lows for this year, and hopefully that'll perpetuate itself into next year.

JENSEN: Fifteen-year fixed-rate mortgages, now at 6.6, are also expected to come down a quarter of a point. Same thing with adjustable rate mortgages, now averaging 5.5 percent. And home equity loans, now at 9.3 percent, auto loan rates, now averaging 8.6 percent, will also come down, and so will credit cards with a variable rate, now at 16 percent. And there may be more to come. Analysts say if the economy keeps edging toward recession, the Fed will probably cut rates again, doing everything it can to keep this extraordinary period of economic growth alive. Mike Jensen, NBC News, New York.
   COfed : Federal Reserve Board   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSm11 : Equity Markets | ntra : Transcript | e1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBBurrelle?? Information Services   ANDocument NTLN000020120223duaf00oyi  

HDProfile: Expected effect of  interest rate  cuts on US economy   WC358 words   PD15 October 1998   SNNBC News: Nightly News   SCNTLN   LAEnglish   CY(c) Copyright 1998, NBC Universal Inc. All Rights Reserved.    
   LPTOM BROKAW, anchor:

Joining me once again for some perspective on all this, CNBC's Ron Insana.
   TDRon, could this possibly mean that the great roller coaster ride is now over for a while?

RON INSANA reporting:

Well, it may be over on the downside, Tom. Some people expect that the market can recover and actually move higher. You know, since last Thursday, when the Dow traded as low as 7540 in the middle of the day, the stock market's come roaring back. The Dow Jones industrial average closing near 8300 tonight, and many folks believe that the stock market knew or, at least, hoped the Fed would take the action it took today. Some of the big winners in the session were sensitive both to economic activity and to interest rate reductions. General Electric, parent of this network, surging 4 3/8 of a point. J.P. Morgan, a big investment bank, up 5. Merrill Lynch, the nation's biggest broker, up 4. High-technology companies also did quite well, with Dell and America Online up sharply on the day, Tom.

(Stock report follows)

BROKAW: And Ron, of course investors in this country are not only looking at interest rates here, but they're also looking at the global economy, what's going on in Asia. Is that eventually going to catch up to investors in America?

INSANA: Absolutely, and Asian markets expected to rally substantially overnight. You know, the Wall Street wisdom that talks about reductions in interest rates, when they happen here and when they happen elsewhere, suggests that you never want to fight the Federal Reserve or any central bank. If it's cutting interest rates, that's usually, historically, good for the stock market. Also, if the Fed cuts interest rates three times in a row, stock prices historically have gone up rather substantially. So interest rates are coming down here at home. If that is also buttressed by rate cuts overseas, that's really good news for stock market investors, Tom.

BROKAW: Thank you very much. Ron Insana of CNBC tonight.
   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | ntra : Transcript | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBBurrelle?? Information Services   ANDocument NTLN000020120223duaf00oyh  



 HD Fed Rate Cut Seen Catalyst For Lower Dollar Near Term    BY By Marianne Sullivan    WC358 words   PD15 October 1998   ET23:06   SNDow Jones International News   SCDJI   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 1998, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP NEW YORK (Dow Jones)--The dollar's sudden slide against the Deutsche mark and yen, following the U.S. Federal Reserve's surprise interest-rate cut is seen as an understandable knee-jerk reaction, analysts said. 

 They also say the cut will trigger further liquidations in long-dollar positions in the short term. 
   TD The Fed's 25 basis point cut of the Fed Funds and discount rate, came unexpectedly in between meetings of the U.S. Federal Reserve Open Market Committee Meeting and "obviously, caught the market off guard," said Robert Lynch, foreign exchange strategist at Banque Paribas in New York. 

 After the announcement, the dollar fell about a yen-and-a-half and one pfennig before hitting some support around DEM1.6180 and slightly above Y116.00. 

 Still, many analysts see the dollar falling further when trading opens Friday in Asia and Europe. 

 Robert Sinche, currency analyst at Citibank, said the cut, and subsequent fall of the dollar will be the stimulus to encourage further liquidation of long dollar positions against both the mark and the yen. This liquidation has been pressuring the dollar since August and was largely behind the dollar's rapid fall last week. 

 Others said the impact on the dollar would be felt longer term. Kevin Logan, chief economist at Dresdner Bank said this cut opens the way for others. 

 "Rates could be at 4.0% before the end of the year," Logan said. 

 Robert Katz, a dealer at MTB Bank Corp. in New York agreed, saying it "doesn't appear to be the end of the easing cycle." Katz said this expectation of further cuts should pressure the dollar in the near term. 

 An important counterweight to this process, however, is the potential for Germany to cut rates. Many argue that the Fed cut will put great pressure on the Deutsche Bundesbank - until now seemingly opposed to such a move - to follow suit. This will mitigate the interest differential bias the mark and other European currencies now hold over the dollar. 

 (MORE) Dow Jones Newswires 15-10-98 

 2106GMT 
   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | m11 : Equity Markets | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | m131 : Money Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument dji0000020010920duaf008ft  



 HD Analysts:Prime Rate Cut Will Help Boost Economy    BY By Tom Locke    WC470 words   PD16 October 1998   ET01:37   SNDow Jones News Service   SCDJ   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 1998, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP DENVER (Dow Jones)--Two analysts said the cut in the prime lending rate announced by several banks Thursday will have an important impact on small businesses, consumers, and the economy in general. 

 The prime rate is the base rate banks use in pricing commercial loans to their most creditworthy customers. 
   TD The lowering of the prime rate from 8.25% to 8% by several major banks, such as First Chicago NBD (FCN), followed Thursday's move by the Federal Reserve to cut the Fed funds rate to 5% from 5.25% and the discount rate to 4.75% from 5%. 

 Many very large businesses don't have loans tied to the prime rate, but "it is still widely used," said Jay Tejera, bank analyst with Dain Rauscher in Minneapolis. Companies with more than $100 million in sales often tie their borrowing to the London Interbank Offered Rate, or LIBOR, he said. 

 The LIBOR rate is more closely aligned with lending rates large companies can get through unsecured short-term debt instruments known as commercial paper, according to Tejera. The 30-day LIBOR rate has been about 5%, and lending to large companies is typically 1% to 3% above LIBOR, he said. 

 However, Tejera said, "Two-thirds of all small business loans are tied to prime." For instance, he said, a residential construction company might be paying 2% above prime on a working credit line. 

 Borrowers with loans from big banks that reprice their loans daily will feel the impact of the lower rates as early as Friday, Tejera said, while others with loans repriced monthly will have to wait no longer than a month. 

 Major banks have kept the prime rate at 3% above the Fed funds rate for several years, Tejera said, so if the Fed funds rate drops 0.25%, the prime rate follows, and borrowers benefit. 

 "The real benefit is that small businesses in Colorado will enjoy an immediate reduction in the cost of credit," he said. 

 That reduction should generate more loan demand, said Diana Yates, a banking analyst with A.G. Edwards & Sons Inc. Consumer lending rates, including credit card rates and home equity loans, are tied to the prime rate, and overall the cut in the prime should lead to more spending, she said. 

 In general, she said, the 331-point positive response of the Dow Jones Industrial Average Thursday to the Fed's interest rate cuts was due to an expectation that lower-cost money will help the economy. Lower interest rates should help companies' earnings, which should help the market. "We think it will probably have a little more of an impact tomorrow," she said. 

 -By Tom Locke; 303-293-9294 

 (END) DOW JONES NEWS  10-15-98 

 07:37 PM 
   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSc15 : Performance | c152 : Earnings Projections | c1521 : Analyst Comment/Recommendation | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | nanl : Analysis | ncat : Content Types   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument dj00000020010916duaf0988d  



 HD U.S. T-Bill Market Soars On Surprise Rate Cut By Fed    WC368 words   PD15 October 1998   ET22:25   SNCapital Markets Report   SCCM   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 1998, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP NEW YORK (Dow Jones)--The bill market strengthened with speed and significance on the surprise, unexpected, interest rate cut by the Federal Reserve late Thursday. 

 In a rare inter-meeting move, the Fed lowered the target for the Fed funds rate to 5.00% from 5.25%, while also cutting the discount rate 25 basis points to 4.75% from 5.00%. The Fed's last move was Sept. 29 when it cut the Fed funds rate 25 basis points at its regular policymaking meeting. Its next meeting is scheduled for Nov. 17. 
   TD "The bill market will have to adjust to the lower cost of carry," said Kevin Flanagan, money market economist with Morgan Stanley Dean Witter in New York. 

 The year-bill and six-month bill rallied harder than the three-month bills. Some analysts noted that the flight-to-quality buying in the shortest sector of the bill market last week may be holding back the three-month bills for now, while the six-month and year bill play catch up. 

 The initial reaction was positive in U.S. stocks with the Dow Jones Industrial Average rising to end 330.58 points higher. However, Flanagan noted that if investors begin to think that the rate cut was spurred by fear of further financial market deterioration after the euphoria dies down, then the equity markets could sag, pushing more buying into the bill and coupon markets. 

 Prior to the rate cut announcement, the bill market had traded uneventfully as spreads narrowed and the curve flattened slightly. 


In other money markets, the rate Japanese banks were paying for
one-month, dollar-denominated LIBOR was unchanged from Wednesday's 5
9/16%. The comparable rate for European banks was 5 1/16%, compared with
5 5/16% Wednesday.
   3-Month Bill (1/14)  3.86%  Dn  7.0 BP
   6-Month Bill (4/15)  3.87%  Dn 20.0 BP
   1-Year Bill  (10/14) 3.81%  Dn 20.0 BP



Federal Funds 5 1/2%, Overnight Repo Rate 5.25%



-By J.R. Wu; 201-938-4425



(END) Dow Jones Newswires  10-15-98



1625EDT

   RF4191   COdwitd : Morgan Stanley   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m11 : Equity Markets | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States | use : Northeast U.S. | usny : New York   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument cm00000020010916duaf02el8  



 HD U.S. Debt Futures Soar In After-Hours Trading After Rate Cut    WC312 words   PD15 October 1998   ET22:21   SNCapital Markets Report   SCCM   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 1998, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP CHICAGO (Dow Jones)--Although interest rate futures ended lower during the open-outcry session in Chicago Thursday, a surprise rate cut by the Federal Reserve after the market closed has sent the December bond future soaring in after-hours trading. 

 In pit trading, the bond ended down 18/32 to 128-24, but it has since soared on electronic Project A trading. It peaked after the 3:14 p.m. EDT rate cut at 130-03. Ironically, the 130-03 was the same intraday high the market hit when the Fed last cut rates Sept. 29. 
   TD "I'm flabbergasted," said Rick Santelli, vice-president at Sanwa Futures. "There's probably some grim news out there that we're unaware of as yet." 

 The Fed's board of governors reduced the discount rate by 25 basis points to 4.75% from 5.0%, and cut the Federal funds rate 1/4 point to 5.0% from 5.25%. (See Page 4213.) 

 Market pundits appeared to be leaning against a rate cut ahead of the regularly scheduled Nov. 17 meeting of the policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee. 

 As a result, the stock market has skyrocketted higher, at one point trading almost 400 points above Wednesday's close. 

 Santelli said the December bond is likely to trade in a wide range overnight, but said the 130-00 level appears to be a comfortable area. The bond is trading at around 129-30, up 1 5/32. 


Contract                       Price       Change
Dec Federal Funds             95.060      Dn 7.0 Bp
Mar 1999 Eurodollars          95.440      Dn 7.0 Bp
Dec 10-Years                  120-05      Unch
Dec T-Bonds                   128-24      Dn 18/32
Mar 99 to Mar 00 Euro Spread  0.0 Vs 7.0



(MORE) Dow Jones Newswires  10-15-98



1621EDT

   RF4101   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m15 : Derivative Securities | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument cm00000020010916duaf02el3  



 HD =CORRECTION:11, Not 12 Policymakers On FOMC    WC74 words   PD15 October 1998   ET19:01   SNCapital Markets Report   SCCM   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 1998, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP Just eight days before they met Sept. 29 to approve the Federal Reserve's first interest-rate cut in three years, the U.S. central bank's 11 policymakers consulted with one another in an unusual telephone call. 

 (In an item timed at about 12:37 p.m. EDT, it was incorrectly reported that there were 12 policymakers.) 
   TD (END) Dow Jones Newswires  10-15-98 

 1301EDT 
   RF4223   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument cm00000020010916duaf02edp  



 HD =FOMC Sept. 21 Talk Fuels Pre-Meeting Rate-Cut Speculation    BY By Joseph Rebello    WC303 words   PD15 October 1998   ET18:37   SNCapital Markets Report   SCCM   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 1998, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP WASHINGTON (Dow Jones)--Just eight days before they met Sept. 29 to approve the Federal Reserve's first interest-rate cut in three years, the U.S. central bank's 12 policy makers consulted with one another in an unusual telephone call. 

 Its purpose was to help Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan prepare congressional testimony on the state of global financial markets, according to minutes released this month. But within the Fed it had deeper implications: Such pre-meeting consultations tend to be the forum in which Greenspan informs colleagues of his desire to change interest rates - as he did that day. 
   TD That Sept. 21 consultation, analysts say, offers a clear sign that the Fed has shifted to a state of high alert as the global financial contagion begins to slow the U.S. economy. Greenspan hasn't held such a conference with the Fed's policymaking Open Market Committee (FOMC) since April 1994, when the Fed opted to raise interest rates ahead of a formal FOMC meeting. 

 That has fueled speculation that the Fed, which trimmed its key Federal Funds rate a quarter percentage point to 5.25% Sept. 29, will do so again before the FOMC's next formal meeting Nov. 17. This week the Times of London asserted in a column that Greenspan held a telephone consultation Oct. 9 to propose an "emergency" rate cut. A Fed spokeswoman declined to comment. 

 But most Fed experts say the odds of a pre-meeting rate cut are slim. Although several Fed policy makers have publicly indicated growing consternation about U.S. vulnerability to the global contagion, that hasn't yet led to more frequent telephone conferences among members of the FOMC. 

 (MORE) Dow Jones Newswires  10-15-98 

 1237EDT 
   RF4223   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument cm00000020010916duaf02ed8  



 HD U.S. Debt Futures Mixed; Shrugs Off Initial Declines On PPI    WC401 words   PD15 October 1998   ET15:50   SNCapital Markets Report   SCCM   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 1998, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP NEW YORK (Dow Jones)--Interest rate futures are mixed, but are off intraday lows set after producer prices for finished goods signaled a possibile rise in inflation Thursday. 

 (For more information on the Treasury market see page 4041.) 
   TD The U.S. Labor Department reported that September's producer price index rose 0.3%, which was above expectations for an unchanged figure. The core rate excluding the volatile food and energy sectors rose 0.4%, also above the consensus of up 0.1%. September's data were the biggest gain in a year and could signal pipeline inflationary pressures even as the economy slows. 

 Bond futures hit a low of 128-26, but managed to rise back above 129-00. 

 "We were able to recover," said Don Pullen, an analyst with E.D.& F. Man International on the floor of the Chicago Board of Trade. The strength in the PPI showed a large increase in the factory prices of passenger cars which reflected a rebound from a summer of deep discounts in auto prices, according to the Labor Department. 

 Taking that into account, market participants started to buy again as they came to the conclusion that inflation may not be trending higher, analysts said. 

 "One number doesn't do it," said one desk broker on the floor of the Chicago Mercantile Exchange. He said traders may start to worry about inflationary pressures if future data back it up. 

 Liquidity concerns are still the primary worries in the market with news Thursday that Nomura Securities Co. of Japan wrote down a large portion of its securities holdings. 

 Due out at 10 a.m. EDT will be the manufacturing sector-oriented Philadelphia Federal Reserve Business Outlook survey. Traders will be watching for indications of further slowdown in the U.S. manufacturing sector, which is beginning to show signs of wear from the emerging market crisis. 


Resistance is seen at 130-00 for the December bonds, while support is
seen at the session low.
Contract                      Price       Change
Dec Federal Funds             95.130      Unch
Mar 1999 Eurodollars          95.515      Up 0.5 Bp
Dec 10-Years                  120-05      Unch
Dec T-Bonds                   129-05      Dn 5/32
Mar 99 to Mar 00 Euro Spread 3.5 Vs 7.0



-J.R. Wu; 201-938-4425



(END) Dow Jones Newswires  10-15-98



0950EDT

   RF4101   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m15 : Derivative Securities | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument cm00000020010916duaf02e4q  

HD Credit unions have mixed views on impact of Fed's rate reduction    BY Paul Gentile    WC64 words   PD14 October 1998   SNCredit Union Times   SCBCUT   PG9   VOLVolume 9, Issue 41; ISSN: 1058-7764   LAEnglish   CYCopyright (c) 1998 Bell & Howell Information and Learning Company. All rights reserved.
   LP The Federal Reserve said it lowered the interest rate by 25 basis points to cushion effects on perspective economic growth because of recent changes in the global economy.  While some credit unions are talking about lowering loan rates, the overall impact maybe a wash for credit union members. 
   RFLanguage: English   INi814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | i81501 : Credit Types/Services | i8150105 : Consumer Lending | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPDCredit Union National Association | Federal Reserve Board | Simpson Community Federal Credit Union-Shelton WA | United Health Services Credit Union-Spokane WA | Federal Reserve monetary policy | Credit unions | Interest rates | 9190 - US | 8120 - Retail banking services | 1120 - Economic policy & planning   ANDocument bcut000020010915duae000fe  
 Page 1 of 1      2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.


 

 Page 1      2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.

