 


 SE Report on Business    HD U.S. chops interest rates again The 0.25-point cut -- the third reduction in two months -- sets stage for Bank of Canada to follow suit    BY BARRIE McKENNA AND MARIAN STINSON    CRThe Globe and Mail, With files from reporter Heather Scoffield in Ottawa and, Dow Jones Service.   WC1,164 words   PD18 November 1998   SNThe Globe and Mail   SCGLOB   EDMetro   PGB1   LAEnglish   CY All material copyright Thomson Canada Limited or its licensors. All rights reserved. 
   LP Washington and Toronto -- BARRIE McKENNA in Washington MARIAN STINSON 

 in Toronto 
   TD As early as today, Canadian investors and borrowers could reap the benefits of the latest quarter-percentage-point cut in U.S. interest rates. 

 U.S. Federal Reserve Board chairman Alan Greenspan cut the central bank's federal funds rate to 4.75 per cent -- the third such reduction in less than two months. The discount rate was also cut a quarter of a point to 4.5 per cent. 

 The Bank of Canada, which has been keeping a close eye on U.S. interest rates lately, is widely expected to lower the rate it charges Canadian banks today. 

 "The door is wide open for them with the Fed having gone. I think they'll walk through that door," said Ted Carmichael, senior economist at J.P. Morgan Canada Inc. In late August the Bank of Canada boosted interest rates by a full percentage point to restore faith in Canadian dollar assets after the loonie sank to a series of historical lows. Since then, the central bank has matched the two quarter-point rate reductions by the Federal Reserve, and will continue on that path to help the domestic economy, he said. 

 "The only thing that would stand in the way of a reduction today would be a surprisingly sharp decline in the dollar," Mr. Carmichael said. 

 Some analysts have been concerned that last night's Quebec election debate might stir up volatility in the dollar early today. The dollar closed at 64.60 cents (U.S.) yesterday, down 0.16 cents from Monday. 

 "There is no logic in waiting to cut rates," said Andrew Pyle, chief strategist with ABN Amro Bank Canada. The currency rose yesterday and financial markets have already assumed the Parti Quebecois will win the Nov 30 election. The policy-making committee of the U.S. Federal Reserve, which met yesterday in Washington, cited still-shaky financial markets for its decision to lower rates. 

 "Although conditions in financial markets have settled down materially since mid-October, unusual strains remain," the Federal Reserve said in a typically terse three-paragraph statement. 

 Traders at the New York Stock Exchange cheered the widely expected news of still-lower interest rates, but the blue-chip Dow Jones industrial average fell nearly 25 points anyway. 

 It was a similar story in Canada, where Toronto Stock Exchange's 300 index slipped 19.47 points to 6,337.78, rebounding from losses before Mr. Greenspan's announcement. 

 In Ottawa, Finance Minister Paul Martin said the U.S. rate cut confirms that Mr. Greenspan has shifted from containing inflation to a concern the economy may be slowing. 

 "It's not entirely unexpected," Mr. Martin told reporters. "I think it does indicate the Fed's view that while the situation internationally has improved, that there are still storm clouds out there, and that the balance of risks have shifted from inflation to the need to have the maximum amount of growth." 

 Indeed, the rate cut comes amid very mixed signals about the direction of the global economy. There is some evidence that U.S. banks are growing nervous about extending credit to businesses, and most economists expect growth to slow next year. 

 But serious trouble has yet to hit the U.S. or Canadian economies. Inflation is almost non-existent, the U.S. economy continues to grow at healthy clip, retailers are anticipating a great Christmas season and stock markets have been on a tear for the past month. 

 In an appearance before the the House of Commons finance committee, Bank of Canada Governor Gordon Thiessen refused to tip his hand about what he would do to Canada's rates in the morning. 

 "They've [the United States] lowered their interest rates for the last time just a few hours ago and I really can't say more than that." 

 It's difficult for Canada to move its interest rate independently of the United States, he said. "Whatever happens in the U.S. is bound to have an influence in Canada as well . . . but there is still room to diverge." 

 Elsewhere in the world, the panic of the past year seems to be subsiding, particularly since Brazil agreed to a $42-billion financial rescue last week. But much of the world is mired in recession and few economists are predicting a quick recovery. 

 Many U.S. banks moved quickly yesterday to match the Federal Reserve's move by lowering the interest rates they charge on various business and consumer loans. After freezing interest rates for 18 months, the Federal Reserve has now cut rates three times since the summer for a total reduction of three-quarters of a percentage point. The first move came on Sept. 29, when the U.S. central bank cut the federal fund rate a quarter percentage point to 5.25 from 5.5 per cent. Then, it lowered rates again on Oct. 15 -- again by a quarter of a percentage point. 

 The next scheduled meeting of the Federal Reserve's policy-making committee is set for Dec. 22. But most analysts say another rate cut before the end of the year appears unlikely unless the U.S. economy shows immediate signs of a sharp slowdown. 

 More than any other factor, Mr. Greenspan has been lowering rates because of the lingering effect of the recent failure of Long-Term Capital Management, the once-high flying hedge fund, said Mark Zandi, an analyst with The Dismal Sciences, an internet newsletter. He said U.S. companies were dangerously close to a full-blown credit squeeze earlier this fall 

 "For a brief period before the Fed acted, even highly rated U.S. corporations found it difficult to tap capital markets," Mr. Zandi said. "Commercial banks also significantly tightened their loan standards, raising the cost and lowering the availability of capital." 

 Other economists said the absence of inflationary pressures made it easier for the Federal Reserve to err on the side of caution and to raise rates. "If you're going to make a mistake at this point, better to ease when it's not necessary," said Dana Saporta, an economist with Stone & McCarthy Research Associates. 

 Peter Canelo, an analyst at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, said the markets "did rather well" yesterday, noting that most indexes finished higher on the day. But he said another rate cut won't likely come until next year. 

 "I think this may be it for a while -- I think we may see another cut early next year -- but, given the streak of good numbers coming out of the economy, I suspect that you'd better be in stocks, not bonds." 
   ART Illustration    NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpol : Domestic Politics | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | m131 : Money Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | npag : Page-One Story   REcana : Canada | namz : North America | usa : United States   IPDUnited States | Canada | monetary | policy | interest rates | economy | Federal Reserve Board | Bank of Canada   ANDocument glob000020011205dubi01oaw  

HDFed cuts rates another quarter point - markets cheer   BYMary Deibel Scripps Howard News Service      WC836 words   PD18 November 1998   SNAnderson Independent-Mail   SCANDRSN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 1998 Scripps Howard Publishing, Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
   LPWASHINGTON - Federal Reserve policy-makers cut interest rates Tuesday for the third time in six weeks, kicking off celebrations from Wall Street to Main Street in hopes lower borrowing costs will continue to keep global financial turmoil at bay.

The central bank's policy-setting committee voted to cut the benchmark federal funds rate that banks charge each other for overnight loans from 5 percent to 4.75 percent.
   TDFinancial markets reacted instantly, with traders on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange standing and cheering the announcement.

The Dow Jones Industrial Average, which topped 9,000 Monday for the first time since July in anticipation of a rate cut, had been down 60 points in advance of the announcement but rebounded to close off 25 at 8,986, down almost 0.3 percent for the day. Broader indexes posted gains, however, with the technology-heavy NASDAQ up 0.9 percent and the Standard & Poor's index of 500 stocks up 0.3 percent.

Major banks including Chase Manhattan, BankAmerica and Bank One, also responded by dropping their prime interest rate a quarter percentage point to 7.75 percent. The prime is a benchmark for billions of dollars in business and consumer borrowing from credit card interest rates to car loans.

The Fed also cut the largely symbolic discount rate it charges on its own loans by a quarter percentage point to 4.5 percent in a signal to foreign markets that it intends to safeguard the U.S. economy and the global marketplace against a credit crunch. "Although conditions in financial markets have settled down materially since mid-October, unusual strains remain," the Fed said in a statement after both actions were announced.

But in a sign that Tuesday's actions may be the last for awhile, the Fed added that, with these rate cuts - a total of three-quarters of a point - "financial conditions can reasonably be expected to be consistent with fostering sustained economic expansion while keeping inflationary

pressures subdued."

The fed funds cut, to the lowest level in four years, was the third since Sept. 29, when the Fed cut rates a quarter point for the first time in three years.

The action was intended to salve volatile U.S. financial markets and to keep the U.S. economy strong in the face of a worldwide slowdown that saw Asia's problems prove contagious in Russia and threaten to be catching in Latin America.

That cut didn't satisfy Wall Street, where investors and banks began pulling back on credit, so the Fed cut rates another quarter percentage point Oct. 15 in a rare between-meetings move, setting the stage for a 1,500-point rally by the Dow as well as gains on broader stock indexes.

Economists and market analysts were split on whether the Fed would move as soon as Tuesday, but a third cut appeared clinched by Tuesday's Labor Department report that inflation is all-but-nonexistent: It said consumer prices have risen just 1.6 percent so far in 1998, down from last year's 1.7 percent rise that was the lowest increase in 11 years.

"The October Consumer Price Index reassured the Fed that further easing is unlikely to risk a surge in inflation anytime soon," said Tim O'Neill, chief economist with Chicago's Harris Bank/Bank of Montreal.

O'Neill counted himself in the camp that expected further easing by the Fed "to insure against a marked slowdown in the economy."

"If the Fed didn't go, domestic and global equity market reaction could well be fairly unpleasant, enough so that the Fed would have had to go again before its Dec. 22 meeting," Lehman Brothers strategist Jeffrey Applegate said. "Why ruin Thanksgiving?"

The "why wait?" attitude also echoed on Main Street, where AFL-CIO President John Sweeney and U.S. Chamber of Commerce President Thomas Donohue issued an unusual joint plea to the Fed to cut rates again on Tuesday.

"There is across-the-board evidence of weakening demand and slowing job growth," the heads of the world's largest

labor and business groups agreed.

Recent economic reports have sent mixed signals on the U.S. economy: While retail sales rose at a surprisingly robust 1 percent last month as consumer spending continued powering the expansion, other government reports show that manufacturing is down, payroll employment is registering smaller monthly gains, and the trade deficit is headed for a record this year - all in response to the global slowdown.

"The main economic danger faced by the United States comes from the international marketplace," said economist Jerry Jasinowski, president of the National Association of Manufacturers. "The Fed's decision to lower rates was made at the right time for the right reasons, namely to stimulate growth in our own country and curtail recession throughout the emerging economies."

Mary Deibel is a reporter for Scripps Howard News Service.
   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | m11 : Equity Markets | e1103 : Inflation/Prices | effund : Federal Funds Rate | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBScripps Howard Publishing, Inc.   ANDocument ANDRSN0020100303dubi006zi  

HD Iowa, Nebraska Banks Follow Fed, Will Cut Rates    BY Steve Jordon, Omaha World-Herald, Neb.    WC738 words   PD18 November 1998   SNKRTBN Knight-Ridder Tribune Business News: Omaha World-Herald, Neb   SCKRTBN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright (C) 1998 KRTBN Knight Ridder Tribune Business News; Source: World Reporter (TM)
   LP Nov. 18--Banks in the Midlands and across the country will lower their lending rates today in response to rate cuts Tuesday by the Federal Reserve that are intended to insulate the U.S. economy from international economic turmoil. 

 The banks' new prime interest rate, 7.75 percent, will be a drop of one-quarter of a percentage point. The banks also followed the Federal Reserve's actions in two earlier quarter-point steps, on Sept. 29 and Oct. 15, starting at 8.5 percent. 
   TD Taken together, the three rate cuts will reduce interest costs significantly for businesses and consumers, said bankers and economists. Rates for a wide variety of loans, from credit cards to commercial borrowings, tend to follow the prime rate. 

 "Any time you have lower borrowing expenses, you can look at doing different things," said Jeff Kenkel, chief financial officer for Norwest Bank Nebraska. 

 Even without the rate cuts, the economy in Nebraska and Iowa has been generally healthy, said John Nahas, president of U.S. Bank Nebraska. Lower rates will stimulate borrowing, Nahas said. 

 "You benefit here because they're lowering the rates overall," he said. "Some local economies (elsewhere in the nation) may be slowing somewhat, but I see pretty good loan demand still in the Midwest." 

 The Federal Reserve's open markets committee lowered its benchmark federal funds rate, which is charged on overnight loans between banks, from 5percent to 4.75percent. It also reduced its discount rate, charged within the Federal Reserve, by a quarter-point to 4.5 percent. 

 The federal funds rate is the lowest since November 1994. 

 After its closed-door session, the Federal Reserve's monetary policy committee explained its actions by saying "unusual strains" remain in the economy even though financial markets have calmed since its mid-October rate reduction. 

 Signaling that the next cut will not be automatic, it said that with the Tuesday reduction, "financial conditions can reasonably be expected to be consistent with fostering sustained economic expansion while keeping inflationary pressures subdued." 

 Wall Street, which had been debating whether the rates would be lowered, reacted with a 135-point burst in the Dow Jones industrial average but eventually closed down 24.97 at 8986.28 because of weak <ah>profit reports by some major corporations. 

 With inflation under control at a 1.6percent annual rate, including only 0.2percent in October, the Federal Reserve could cut rates even though there is not clear evidence that the U.S. economy is declining. 

 On Monday, a panel of 29 economists assembled by the National Association for Business Economics forecast that the trade deficit -- $136 billion last year -- will approach $250 billion this year and $300 billion next year. 

 The growing trade deficit is forcing factories to lay off workers. Since March, factory payrolls are down by 200,000 jobs. 

 AFL-CIO President John Sweeney and U.S. Chamber of Commerce President Thomas Donohue -- who head the world's largest labor and business groups, respectively -- had urged the Fed to cut rates. 

 "There is across-the-board evidence of weakening demand and slowing job growth," they said in an unprecedented joint statement. 

 Don Hilber of Minneapolis, an economist with Wells Fargo & Co., Norwest Bank's parent company, said the federal funds rate cut was not unexpected, but lowering the discount rate at the same time may have additional meaning. 

 A majority of the presidents of the Federal Reserve district banks have to request that the discount rate be lowered, Hilber said. When that happens, it means the regional presidents see the need to stimulate economic activity, rather than seeking higher rates to prevent inflation. 

 "I think it's skepticism that without rate cuts the economy won't rebound," Hilber said. "The slowdown's pretty well in place, even though there's no evidence from the numbers." 

 The combined rate cuts over the past seven weeks will help keep consumers spending, he said, which will help offset the loss of export sales. The Federal Reserve also may be concerned that lending rates are still too high in relation to rates yielded by U.S. Treasury securities, he said. 

 The Federal Reserve's monetary policy committee will meet again in December. 

 This report includes material from the Associated Press. 

 (c) 1998, Omaha World-Herald, Neb. Distributed by Knight Ridder/Tribune Business News. WFC, 
   INi814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSc15 : Performance | c152 : Earnings Projections | c1521 : Analyst Comment/Recommendation | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | nanl : Analysis | ncat : Content Types   REasiaz : Asia | gulfstz : Persian Gulf Regions | meastz : Middle East | namz : North America | qatar : Qatar | usa : United States | wasiaz : Western Asia   IPC601 | 6021   IPDInterest Rates | Economic Indicators | Economic News | Global and International Economics | Comment & Analysis | Market News | United States of America, Americas~US | Americas | North America | Pacific Rim | Nebraska | Iowa | Federal_Reserve_-_United_States | Central Reserve Depositories, National Commercial Banks   ANDocument krtbn00020010917dubi0189x  

HD U.S. Banks to Lower Lending Rates    BY Steve Jordon, Omaha World-Herald, Neb.    WC805 words   PD18 November 1998   SNKRTBN Knight-Ridder Tribune Business News: Omaha World-Herald, Neb   SCKRTBN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright (C) 1998 KRTBN Knight Ridder Tribune Business News; Source: World Reporter (TM)
   LP Nov. 18--Banks in the Midlands and across the country will lower their lending rates today in response to rate cuts Tuesday by the Federal Reserve that are intended to insulate the U.S. economy from international economic turmoil. 

 The banks' new prime interest rate, 7.75 percent, will be a drop of one-quarter of a percentage point. The banks also followed the Federal Reserve's actions in two earlier quarter-point steps, on Sept. 29 and Oct. 15, starting at 8.5 percent. 
   TD Taken together, the three rate cuts will reduce interest costs significantly for businesses and consumers, said bankers and economists. Rates for a wide variety of loans, from credit cards to commercial borrowings, tend to follow the prime rate. 

 "Any time you have lower borrowing expenses, you can look at doing different things," said Jeff Kenkel, chief financial officer for Norwest Bank Nebraska. 

 Even without the rate cuts, the economy in Nebraska and Iowa has been generally healthy, said John Nahas, president of U.S. Bank Nebraska. Lower rates will stimulate borrowing, Nahas said. 

 "You benefit here because they're lowering the rates overall," he said. "Some local economies (elsewhere in the nation) may be slowing somewhat, but I see pretty good loan demand still in the Midwest." 

 The Federal Reserve's open markets committee lowered its benchmark federal funds rate, which is charged on overnight loans between banks, from 5 percent to 4.75 percent. It also reduced its discount rate, charged within the Federal Reserve, by a quarter-point to 4.5 percent. 

 The federal funds rate is the lowest since November 1994. 

 After its closed-door session, the Federal Reserve's monetary policy committee explained its actions by saying "unusual strains" remain in the economy even though financial markets have calmed since its mid-October rate reduction. 

 Signaling that the next cut will not be automatic, it said that with the Tuesday reduction, "financial conditions can reasonably be expected to be consistent with fostering sustained economic expansion while keeping inflationary pressures subdued." 

 Wall Street, which had been debating whether the rates would be lowered, reacted with a 135-point burst in the Dow Jones industrial average but eventually closed down 24.97 at 8986.28 because of weak profit reports by some major corporations. 

 The prime rate serves as a base for most commercial loans and for many consumer loans. The dropping rates have spurred many consumers to refinance their home mortgages, and home buyers can afford better homes because their monthly payments will be lower. 

 With inflation under control at a 1.6percent annual rate, including only 0.2percent in October, the Federal Reserve could cut rates even though there is not clear evidence that the U.S. economy is declining. 

 Deposit rates also have been dropping in recent months. While Tuesday's rate cuts don't directly affect rates for certificates of deposit and other savings rates, they reflect a generally downward trend in rates. 

 On Monday, a panel of 29 economists assembled by the National Association for Business Economics is forecasting the trade deficit -- $136 billion last year -- will approach $250 billion this year and $300 billion next year. 

 That's forcing factories to lay off workers. Since March, factory payrolls are down by 200,000 jobs. 

 AFL-CIO President John Sweeney and U.S. Chamber of Commerce President Thomas Donohue -- who head the world's largest labor and business groups, respectively -- had urged the Fed to cut rates. 

 "There is across-the-board evidence of weakening demand and slowing job growth," they said in an unprecedented joint statement. 

 Don Hilber of Minneapolis, an economist with Wells Fargo & Co., Norwest Bank's parent company, said the federal funds rate cut was not unexpected, but lowering the discount rate at the same time may have additional meaning. 

 A majority of the presidents of the Federal Reserve district banks have to request that the discount rate be lowered, Hilber said. When that happens, it means the regional presidents see the need to stimulate economic activity, rather than seeking higher rates to prevent inflation. 

 "I think it's skepticism that without rate cuts the economy won't rebound," Hilber said. "The slowdown's pretty well in place, even though there's no evidence from the numbers." 

 The combined rate cuts over the past seven weeks will help keep consumers spending, he said, which will help offset the loss of export sales. The Federal Reserve also may be concerned that lending rates are still too high in relation to rates yielded by U.S. Treasury securities, he said. 

 The Federal Reserve's monetary policy committee will meet again in December. 

 (c) 1998, Omaha World-Herald, Neb. Distributed by Knight Ridder/Tribune Business News. WFC, WFC, 
   INi814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REasiaz : Asia | gulfstz : Persian Gulf Regions | meastz : Middle East | namz : North America | qatar : Qatar | usa : United States | wasiaz : Western Asia   IPC9311 | 6019 | 6029   IPDInterest Rates | Economic Indicators | Economic News | Global and International Economics | United States of America, Americas~US | Americas | North America | Pacific Rim | Federal_Reserve_-_United_States | Finance Taxation & Monetary Policy, Central Reserve Depository NEC, Commercial Banks NEC   ANDocument krtbn00020010917dubi0187x  

HD Federal Reserve  Drops  Interest Rate  a Third Time    BY Merrill Goozner, Chicago Tribune    WC1,052 words   PD18 November 1998   SNKRTBN Knight-Ridder Tribune Business News: Chicago Tribune   SCKRTBN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright (C) 1998 KRTBN Knight Ridder Tribune Business News; Source: World Reporter (TM)
   LP Nov. 18--WASHINGTON--The Federal Reserve Board cut interest rates for the third time in two months Tuesday in its ongoing campaign to keep the slowing U.S. economy from slipping into recession next year and to help stabilize global financial markets. 

 The reduction in the federal funds rate another quarter point to 4.75 percent will give a short-term boost to consumer and business borrowers. It means consumers with home equity loans or credit card balances could see their bills decline slightly. And corporations that have been having a hard time finding financing recently could regain access to credit markets. 
   TD The decision by the 11-member Federal Open Market Committee to cut rates again shows that the nation's monetary authorities remain afraid that the recessions in much of the developing world and Japan -- and the unsettled condition of U.S. credit markets -- still have the potential to derail U.S. economic growth next year. 

 But the Fed also sent a mixed message Tuesday about the outlook for future interest rate cuts, which if not forthcoming will disappoint many Wall Street analysts who've been projecting rates falling to 4 percent by the middle of next year. 

 "The Fed will pause for several months to assess what it has done and what other global policymakers have done," said Paul Kasriel, chief economist at Northern Trust Bank. 

 The Dow Jones industrial average, which was down about 55 points at 1:15 p.m. when the news flashed across traders' wires and TV sets, initially soared nearly 80 points. But the Dow, which already had optimistically factored in Tuesday's rate cut, fluctuated throughout the rest of the day and finished down 24.97 points to close at 8,986.28. 

 At the same time the Fed cut its federal funds rate, which is the rate banks charge each other for overnight loans, it also cut the discount rate, which is the price the Fed sets on loans to banks who for liquidity purposes must borrow from their regional Federal Reserve banks. 

 A cut in the rarely used discount rate is usually interpreted by Fed watchers as a signal that the nation's monetary authorities are going to implement another rate cut in the near future. 

 When Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan took the extraordinary step of cutting both the federal funds rate and the discount rate between regularly scheduled FOMC meetings on Oct. 15, for instance, it was widely assumed that the Fed would cut again when it met again Tuesday. 

 But the statement that accompanied the two rate cuts announced Tuesday left an air of uncertainty, suggesting to some analysts this might be the last interest rate reduction for a while. The Fed next meets on Dec. 22. 

 "With the 75 basis point (three-quarters of a percentage point) decline in the federal funds rate since September, financial conditions can reasonably be expected to be consistent with fostering sustained economic expansion while keeping inflationary pressures subdued," the statement said. 

 The Fed's hesitancy about future rate cuts can be traced to the contradictory signals given off by the U.S. economy and the differing projections economists have for how the ongoing troubles in overseas markets will impact the domestic economy. 

 Those arguing that more rate cuts are on the way say the U.S. economy will slow sharply in the first half of next year. The current level of consumer spending is bound to drop as households realize the days of double-digit growth in their stock portfolios are over and savings rates that had turned negative in recent months return to normal. 

 This school also points to the coming slowdown in capital spending as businesses react to declining profits. While the 4 percent decline in third corporate profits was largely ignored by the stock market, that's less likely to happen in December and January as companies begin announcing downward revisions in their fourth quarter profit picture. 

 And perhaps most significantly, the school that points to more rate cuts on the horizon points to the negative effects of trade on the economy. Until very recently, the Asian financial crisis was a media event to most Americans. 

 But over the next year, it will hit U.S. shores with gale winds comparable to Hurricane Mitch. Adjusted for inflation, the trade deficit is projected by some economists to soar to $340 billion in 1999 as inexpensive clothes, toys, steel, cars and auto parts pour into the U.S. from countries desperate to export their way out of deep recessions caused by the collapse of their currencies and stock markets. 

 "As the jobs numbers, trade and corporate earnings come out over the next few weeks, I think the Fed will have room to move again in December," said James Glassman, a senior economist at Chase Securities Inc. "They won't want the U.S. to tank while the rest of the world is in trouble." 

 But some economists say the economy has shown such remarkable resilience in the face of this global turmoil and this summer's stock market correction that it actually has constrained the Fed's ability to cut rates again. When the Commerce Department adjusts its third quarter growth numbers next week, these analysts say it will show it grew at a 3.7 percent rate, not the 3.3 percent previously announced. 

 Clearly robust consumer spending has confounded the projections of the bearish economists. The nation's business economists, who work for companies, not Wall Street, are now projecting economic growth at better than 2 percent next year, not the no-growth to 1.5 percent growth scenarios predicted by a number of Wall Street economists. 

 Indeed, the stock market's rebound from its late summer swoon may be the final reason the Fed shies away from additional rate cuts. 

 "They must be worried about the stock market becoming drunker than it already is," said David Levy, chief economist at the Levy Institute Forecasting Center. "While they don't want to base their actions on what it will do to the stock market, there's no doubt that the market now has a greater than usual effect on the economy because of its effect on consumer spending." 
   INi814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REasiaz : Asia | gulfstz : Persian Gulf Regions | meastz : Middle East | namz : North America | qatar : Qatar | usa : United States | wasiaz : Western Asia   IPC9311 | 6019   IPDInterest Rates | Economic Indicators | Economic News | United States of America, Americas~US | Americas | North America | Pacific Rim   ANDocument krtbn00020010917dubi01830  

HD Detroit Free Press Susan Tompor Column    BY Susan Tompor, Detroit Free Press    WC833 words   PD18 November 1998   SNKRTBN Knight-Ridder Tribune Business News: Detroit Free Press   SCKRTBN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright (C) 1998 KRTBN Knight Ridder Tribune Business News; Source: World Reporter (TM)
   LP Nov. 18--INTEREST RATE CUT MAY BE LAST IN '98: It's a three-peat for the Federal Reserve. 

 The banker to the nation's banks Tuesday reduced short-term interest rates by a quarter of a percentage point again -- the third such rate cut in less than two months. 
   TD The federal funds rate, the rate banks charge each other for overnight loans, is now 4.75 percent. The discount rate, the rate the central bank charges banks on its own loans, dropped to 4.5 percent. 

 "They're taking out extra insurance," David Littmann, chief economist for Comerica Bank in Detroit, said of the Fed's policy makers. 

 The economy may be strong now, boosted in part by an incredible rebound on Wall Street. But some economists say the Fed cut rates Tuesday to ensure that the economy doesn't fall in 1999. 

 Economists said the Fed had room to cut rates now because inflation remains relatively tame. The seasonally adjusted Consumer Price Index climbed 0.2 percent in October, the government reported Tuesday. For the first 10 months of the year, inflation is running at a 1.6 percent annual rate. 

 The Dow Jones industrial average, which shot past 9,000 Monday on hopes of a rate cut, rallied on the Fed's announcement. 

 But the blue-chip index closed at 8986.28 Tuesday, down 24.97 points. Analysts said the Dow essentially would have broken even for the day, if Hewlett-Packard, a component in the blue-chip index, hadn't fallen. The computer maker said earnings for its first quarter, which ends in January, will be lower than the same quarter last year. 

 The Fed first began cutting rates Sept. 29 to calm fears of a possible global financial meltdown. It cut rates again Oct. 15, after stock prices tumbled amidst complaints that the Fed hadn't gone deep enough with its first rate cut. 

 Now, the Fed says: "Although conditions in financial markets have settled down materially since mid-October, unusual strains remain." 

 Overall, economists and market watchers say, the central bank remains concerned about the possibility of a credit crunch. Interest rates remain relatively high for many companies that need to borrow money but aren't viewed as top-notch credit risks. If the cost of borrowing is too high, companies are less likely to build plants, add jobs and keep the economy moving. 

 Ellen Hughes-Cromwick, senior economist for Ford Motor Co., said the lower interest rates will provide room for growth in the economy and cushion any slowdown. "We feel like the average consumer out there. It's nice to see the cost of borrowing come down." 

 For retailers, the rate cut is just in time for the holidays. "It adds to shoppers confidence," said Larry Meyer, CEO of the Michigan Retailers association in Lansing. 

 Mortgage rates won't necessarily fall much following Tuesday's rate cut. "We're not expecting any significant change," said Keith Gumbinger, vice president for HSH Associates, a financial publisher in Butler, N.J. 

 In an odd twist, mortgage rates have edged up since late September. 

 Locally, the average rate for a 30-year mortgage was 6.6 percent last week, according to the most recent survey by Residential Mortgage Consultants Inc. in Brighton. 

 That compares with an average rate of 6.38 percent for the Sept. 25 survey. 

 The future direction of mortgage rates will depend on how the bond market reacts in the weeks ahead. 

 Other borrowers, though, are already enjoying the benefits of the Fed's last two rate cuts. 

 The average rate on a credit card is 13.83 percent -- down from 14.97 percent on Sept. 23, shortly before the Fed first lowered rates, according to Bank Rate Monitor in North Palm Beach, Fla. 

 The average rate on a 48-month car loan is now 8.85 percent -- down from 8.96 percent on Sept. 23, 

 And the average rate on a home equity loan is 9.43 percent -- down from 9.58 percent on Sept 23. 

 The cost of borrowing falls further with Tuesday's rate cut. On Tuesday, some banks, including Comerica and Michigan National Bank, said they will lower their prime rate from 8 percent to 7.75 percent, effective today. Some home equity lines of credit are tied to the prime. 

 Savers, of course, will continue to feel a bit squeezed. 

 The Federal Reserve's push to cut interest rates further means that already low rates on certificates of deposit are likely to fall further. 

 Nationwide, the average rate on a six-month certificate of deposit dropped to 4.16 percent -- down from 4.53 percent on Sept. 23. 

 Many economists doubt that the Fed would cut rates again in 1998. "I think they'll take the pulse of the economy for a while," said Bruce Bartless, senior fellow at the National Center for Policy Analysis in Washington, D.C. 
   NSc15 : Performance | c152 : Earnings Projections | c1521 : Analyst Comment/Recommendation | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | nanl : Analysis | ncat : Content Types   REasiaz : Asia | gulfstz : Persian Gulf Regions | meastz : Middle East | namz : North America | qatar : Qatar | usa : United States | wasiaz : Western Asia   IPC9311 | 6111   IPDEconomic Indicators | Economic News | Interest Rates | Comment & Analysis | Market News | United States of America, Americas~US | Americas | North America | Pacific Rim | Finance Taxation & Monetary Policy, Federal & Federally-Sponsored Credit Agencies   ANDocument krtbn00020010917dubi017yk  

HD Analysts Have Mixed Feelings About Latest  Interest Rate  Cut    BY Aaron Zitner, The Boston Globe    WC846 words   PD18 November 1998   SNKRTBN Knight-Ridder Tribune Business News: The Boston Globe   SCKRTBN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright (C) 1998 KRTBN Knight Ridder Tribune Business News; Source: World Reporter (TM)
   LP Nov. 18--WASHINGTON--Federal Reserve policy makers yesterday cut short-term interest rates for the third time in seven weeks, a move that analysts said was aimed at easing a potential credit crunch for U.S. businesses. 

 The cut is also an early Christmas present for consumers, who will likely see credit card interest rates fall just in time for the gift-buying season. The Fed trimmed the federal funds rate, which banks charge each other on overnight loans, to 4.75 percent, down a quarter-point. That should prompt lenders to cut rates on home equity, auto and other short-term loans. 
   TD More important, analysts said, the rate cut should also make it less expensive for businesses to raise money. 

 That had become a concern in recent months, as events like the Russian economic meltdown and the collapse of a major U.S. hedge fund scared investors away from all but the safest investments -- even from high-quality U.S. corporate bonds. As investors poured money into safe Treasury bonds, which are backed by the U.S. government, businesses found that they had to pay ever-higher rates to induce investors to buy their bonds, making it expensive to raise capital. 

 Fears of a credit crunch developed even though the U.S. stock market has soared more than 1400 points since August, and while Japan, Brazil and other major nations showed signs of regaining their financial footing. 

 "Investors have become risk-averse," said Greg Jones, chief economist for Briefing.com, an economic analysis firm. "The market as a whole sees slower growth ahead and thinks that corporations will default in greater numbers. So they're demanding a higher yield on bonds." 

 "Despite the fact that the Fed has been easing rates, interest rates for some businesses are still higher than they were a year ago," said Nicholas Perna, chief economist at Fleet Financial Group Inc. Corporate bonds "are viewed as being much more risky than six months ago." 

 Analysts said the Fed noted the potential credit crunch in a brief statement explaining its rate cut. "Although conditions in financial markets have settled down materially since mid-October, unusual strains remain," the Fed statement said. 

 Bonds initially rallied on news of the rate cut but fell back later in the day. The 30-year Treasury bond fell 94 cents per $1,000 of face value and the yield, which moves in the opposite direction, closed at 5.30 percent. 

 Stocks had a mixed day. The Dow Jones industrial average climbed sharply after the Fed announcement, erasing what had been an 80-point decline. But the Dow ended the day at 8986.28, down 24.97, while both the Standard & Poor's 500 and the Nasdaq rose. 

 Major commercial banks also reacted quickly to the news, cutting their prime rates, what they charge their best customers, by a quarter-point, to 7.75 percent. 

 In its statement, the Fed also said that with its latest rate cut, "financial conditions can reasonably be expected to be consistent with fostering sustained economic expansion while keeping inflationary pressures subdued." Some analysts read that comment to mean that the Fed is through with cutting rates for now. 

 Besides cutting the federal funds rate, the Fed also reduced the discount rate, which it charges on emergency loans to banks, to 4.50 percent from 4.75 percent. 

 The Fed has cut rates two other times recently, on Sept. 29 and Oct. 15, each time by a quarter-point. 

 Because it takes several months for a rate cut to ripple through the economy, the Fed may also have trimmed rates now in anticipation of an economic slowdown next year. 

 Cynthia Latta, principal U.S. economist at Standard & Poor's DRI in Lexington, predicted that gross domestic product will grow only 1.7 percent next year, and Perna forsees growth of under 2 percent. That compares to 5.5 percent, 1.8 percent and 3.3 percent growth in the first three quarters of this year, respectively. 

 Some analysts, however, said that there is no slowdown in sight, so the rate cut was not warranted. 

 "It's a mistake. The economy is strong," said Allan Meltzer, an economist at Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh who leads the Shadow Open Market Committee, which monitors Fed policy. 

 Latta said she would have waited until February to cut rates. "The economy has a lot of momentum," she said. "The stock market has bounced back well. Consumers don't need more encouragement to borrow. They're in over their head now." 

 Meltzer said the amount of money in circulation is growing rapidly, which also argues against a rate cut now. A burgeoning money supply can be a precursor to inflation, which might only be exacerbated by lower interest rates. 

 While many economists say inflation is well in check, Meltzer is less sure. He says a big drop in oil prices and other commodities has made inflation seem lower than it really is. 
   INi814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSc15 : Performance | c152 : Earnings Projections | c1521 : Analyst Comment/Recommendation | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | nanl : Analysis | ncat : Content Types   REasiaz : Asia | gulfstz : Persian Gulf Regions | meastz : Middle East | namz : North America | qatar : Qatar | usa : United States | wasiaz : Western Asia   IPC6019   IPDEconomic News | Interest Rates | Economic Indicators | Comment & Analysis | Market News | United States of America, Americas~US | Americas | North America | Pacific Rim | Washington | Central Reserve Depository NEC   ANDocument krtbn00020010917dubi017yb  

HD Inflation Continues on Steady Course, Makes Way for Rate Cut    BY L.M. Sixel, Houston Chronicle    WC565 words   PD18 November 1998   SNKRTBN Knight-Ridder Tribune Business News: Houston Chronicle   SCKRTBN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright (C) 1998 KRTBN Knight Ridder Tribune Business News; Source: World Reporter (TM)
   LP Nov. 18--The monthly inflation report released early Tuesday showed prices remained in check, clearing the way for an interest rate reduction later in the day. 

 Prices rose by 0.2 percent in October, pushed up by higher prices for gasoline and fresh fruits and vegetables according to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics. 
   TD In Houston, prices increased 0.7 percent during September and October, led mostly by higher housing costs. 

 Economists were gleeful at the national news and the Federal Reserve Board nodded its approval of the inflation report by cutting two key interest rates. 

 "It's another indication that inflation is under check," said Sung Won Sohn, chief economist for Wells Fargo & Co., in Minneapolis. The inflation report reinforced the Federal Reserve Board's decision to lower its benchmark federal funds rate -- which affects overnight interbank loans -- a quarter of a point to 4.75 percent. 

 The issue today is deflation, said Sohn, who said he has heard more and more stories lately of companies that can't raise their prices. It's not just computer chips and oil, he said, but customers who want low prices for electronics and automobiles. 

 During the past 12 months, prices have risen only 1.5 percent. 

 Even service providers such as hair stylists, who normally are not as sensitive to competitive pressures, are keeping their prices steady and sometimes even cutting them, Sohn said. 

 Bob Goodman, senior economic adviser for Putman Investments in Boston, predicted consumer prices will continue to stay low. It's pretty clear that companies can't pass along any rising costs because they face such stiff competition, so profits may suffer, he said. 

 Fresh fruit and vegetable prices increased 4.2 percent last month largely because weather problems in California and Florida delayed many harvests, said Cheryl Abbot, an economist with the labor bureau in Dallas. 

 In Houston, overall food prices during September and October were unchanged. 

 While national data are seasonally adjusted, local data are not. 

 Nationally, gasoline prices increased 2.7 percent during October, the biggest one-month increase since August 1997. The price increase reflects a run-up in crude prices in September because of market fears about a hurricane as well as concerns whether Iraq would continue providing oil to the world markets, Abbot said. 

 Supplies of gasoline also have been cut because of unexpected refinery shutdowns for repairs. 

 The Houston area also saw gasoline prices rise 1.6 percent last month. 

 Ken Goldstein, an economist with the Conference Board in New York City, said he was surprised that there hasn't been a run-up in housing costs lately. The real estate market is red hot, interest rates are low and there's so much building going on, yet lumber prices actually fell during August and September, he said. 

 Goldstein predicts that shelter prices will start to increase in early 1999. 

 Housing costs -- which include apartment rent as well as the cost to lease a house -- already appear to be rising in Houston. In September and October, housing costs increased 1.3 percent 

 The area's strong job growth has created strong demand for apartments and many builders are scrambling to build new units. The price for real estate also has been climbing lately and attractive homes generally sell quickly. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REasiaz : Asia | gulfstz : Persian Gulf Regions | meastz : Middle East | namz : North America | qatar : Qatar | usa : United States | wasiaz : Western Asia   IPC9611   IPDInterest Rates | Economic Indicators | Economic News | Inflation | United States of America, Americas~US | Americas | North America | Pacific Rim | Administration of General Economic Programs   ANDocument krtbn00020010917dubi017vy  



 SE City    HD US rate cut piles pressure on Bank    BY Graeme Beaton and Stephen Kahn    WC452 words   PD18 November 1998   SNThe Express   SCTHEEXP   PG56   LAEnglish   CYCopyright (C) 1998 The Express
   LP HOPES of another cut in the cost of borrowing before Christmas rose last night after the US central bank lowered interest rates for the third time in two months. 

Federal Reserve chairman Alan Greenspan lopped a quarter per cent from its key lending rate. He said: "Although conditions in financial markets have settled down materially since mid-October, unusual strains remain." 
   TD The reduction indicated Greenspan is still worried that meltdowns in Asia and Russia could spread, dragging down the giant American economy and jeopardising chances of a rebound worldwide. 

 A dozen countries, including the UK, have cut rates since Greenspan started the ball rolling with quarter per cent cuts on September 29 and October 15. 

 The latest reduction brought America's federal funds rate to 4.75 per cent, a level which has encouraged consumers to borrow and fuelled growth in the world's biggest economy in the past. 

 Wall Street rallied on the news, taking the Dow Jones back above 9000. 

 Earlier, prospects for another UK interest rate cut were boosted by news that underlying inflation held steady in October at the Government's 2.5 per cent target for the third consecutive month. 

 The headline rate, which includes mortgage costs, slipped from 3.2 per cent to 3.1 per cent. 

 However, Britain's growth prospects were sharply downgraded yesterday by the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, putting it on a collision course with more optimistic assessments from the Treasury and the Bank of England. 

 The Paris-based think-tank said the risks to its UK forecasts were "unusually large" with the main downside threat coming from "spillover effects" of the economic contraction in Japan and emerging markets. 

 It has slashed its 1999 growth forecast from 1.8 per cent to just 0.8 per cent. This compares with the Treasury's 1-1.5 per cent forecast. 

 For 2000 the OECD sees UK growth recovering slightly to 1.5 per cent against the Treasury's 2.25 per cent to 2.75 per cent range. 

 NatWest chief economist David Kern believes that the OECD is being excessively pessimistic about the steepness of next year's downturn but may prove more accurate with its conservative estimate for the following year. 

 "There is a tendency to overdo the gloom about the prospects for next year but the OECD may prove to be closer than the Chancellor in its 2000 figure," said Kern. 

 October's public sector net cash requirement (the old PSBR) was announced at a better-than-expected surplus of GBP7.9 billion, compared with a revised deficit of GBP1.6 billion in the previous month. 
   INi814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REasiaz : Asia | gulfstz : Persian Gulf Regions | meastz : Middle East | namz : North America | qatar : Qatar | usa : United States | wasiaz : Western Asia   IPC6019 | 6029 | 9311   IPDInterest Rates | Economic Indicators | Economic News | United States of America, Americas~US | Americas | North America | Pacific Rim | Central Reserve Depository NEC, Commercial Banks NEC, Finance Taxation & Monetary Policy   ANDocument theexp0020010916dubi0026s  



 HD N.Y. Stocks Seen Opening Lower As Market Consolidates    WC344 words   PD18 November 1998   ET14:31   SNDow Jones International News   SCDJI   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 1998, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP NEW YORK (Dow Jones)--New York stocks are seen opening slightly lower Wednesday on weaker foreign markets and a temporary lack of upside momentum, according to market sources. 

 "It's looking a little softer," said Al Goldman, director of technical research at A.G. Edwards. 
   TD Foreign markets were generally weak, he said, and the futures indicate sell programs in the U.S. 

 "We're still in consolidation mode - consolidation with a downside bias," Goldman said. 

 He noted that the expected weakness Wednesday could represent a buying opportunity. 

 Separately, he said Tuesday's quarter-point interest rate cut by the Federal Reserve had been factored into the market before it had even occurred, and won't have a discernible effect on Wednesday's trading. 

 On Tuesday the Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 24.97 points, or 0.28%, to 8986.28. The Nasdaq Composite Index, however, gained 16.84 points, or 0.9%, to 1878.52. 

 The Standard & Poor's 500 Stock Index Futures Contract for December was recently down 3.5 points, indicating a lower open, while the benchmark 30-year Treasury was up 3/16, pushing the yield down to 5.283. 

 Asian markets were mixed Wednesday. 

 Korean shares closed slightly lower on a correction over recent advances. Seoul's Kospi index gave up 0.69 points, or 0.2%, to 423.74. 

 Tokyo's Nikkei 225 index gained 186.23, or 1.3%, to close at 14599.23, erasing Tuesday's 15.27-point loss in mixed trading. 

 In Hong Kong, the Hang Seng index rose 64.73, or 0.6%, to close at 10213.42. Tuesday, it tumbled 149.40, or 1.5%. 


European shares were mostly flat. In Germany, the Frankfurt DAX was
recently up 2.71, or 0.06%. The Paris CAC-40 was up 16.49, or 0.5%, and
London's FT-SE 100 was up 7.5, or 0.1%.
   - Victor Ozols; 201-938-5394



(END) Dow Jones Newswires 18-11-98



1331GMT

   RF20716 4116 5042   NSccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m11 : Equity Markets | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument dji0000020010917dubi018zy  



 HD U.S. Tsy Bond Futures End Higher On Technicals, Curve Trades    WC360 words   PD18 November 1998   ET22:04   SNCapital Markets Report   SCCM   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 1998, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP CHICAGO (Dow Jones)--U.S. Treasury bond futures ended sharply higher Wednesday, aided by a number of fundamental and technical factors that helped erase Tuesday's sharp plunge after the Federal Reserve's interest rate cut. 

 The December bond ended up 29/32 at 127-27, peaking at 128-11 after hitting a low of 126-23. 
   TD "From a technical standpoint, we had a relatively friendly close and a relatively friendly day," said a trader at the Chicago Board of Trade. 

 He said the fact that early selling failed to push the bond contract down below Tuesday's post-rate cut low of 126-21 was a positive factor. As was the ability of the market to break above Tuesday's high of 127-24. In fact, as the market moved through 127-08 - a level near lows hit over the past couple of session - buyers became interested in the market. 

 "Everybody who sold yesterday is either out or wishing they were out," said a trader. 

 Aside from some technical factors, traders said there has been both the unwinding of curve steepending trades - which amounts to covering previous short long-bond positions - and the placing of flattening curve - initiating new long bond positions and selling shorter-dated contracts. 

 As a result, the five-year contract dropped 5.5/64 to 112-310 in the face of strong gains in the bond. The two-year note future was off 3.5/128 at 105-177. 


The next key resistance point for the December contract would be
128-20. Traders said the positive showing in the U.S. dollar, and the
weakness in stocks earlier in the session also helped give Treasury
futures a boost.
Dec Federal Funds             95.19       Dn 1.0 Bp
Mar 1999 Eurodollars          95.190      Dn 4.0 Bp
Dec 10-Years                  118-15      Up 2/32
Dec T-Bonds                   127-27      Up 29/32
Mar 99 to Mar 00 Euro Spread -8.5% Vs -11.5%
   -Michael McHugh (312)750-4142



michael.mchugh@cor.dowjones.com



(END) Dow Jones Newswires  11-18-98



1604EST

   RF4101   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m15 : Derivative Securities | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument cm00000020010916dubi02om8  



 HD Fed's Stern: Not Eying Any Specific Yield Spread Target    WC325 words   PD18 November 1998   ET19:28   SNCapital Markets Report   SCCM   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 1998, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP ST. PAUL, Minn. (Dow Jones)--Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis President Gary Stern said Wednesday that he's not setting any specific target for yield spreads as the financial markets gradually calm down. 

 "I don't have a target in mind, and I have no comment on whether the (Federal Open Market) Committee does or doesn't," Stern said, responding to questions after a panel discussion on international news and the print media. 
   TD The Minneapolis Fed president, who isn't a voting member this year of the FOMC, is the first Fed official appearing in public after the Fed on Tuesday cut both the Fed funds and discount rates by 25 basis points to 4.75% and 4.50%, respectively. 

 Abnormally wide yield spreads between U.S. Treasurys and other fixed-income assets such as corporate bonds and mortgage-backed securities have been recently cited by Fed officials when talking about the risk of a credit crunch. Indeed, the Fed has cut interest rates three times since late September on the basis of unsettled financial conditions rather than any marked slowdown in economic growth. 

 In announcing Tuesday's easing, the Fed noted that "although conditions in financial markets have settled down materially since mid-October, unusual strains remain." 

 Stern declined to comment on Tuesday's interest-rate decision, or the latest economic data, including Wednesday's news of a lower-than-expected $14 billion U.S. trade deficit for September. The Minneapolis Fed president will be an FOMC voter in 1999. 

 On international matters, Stern did note that Brazil has become "where the line in the sand is being drawn as far as contagion of financial and economic problems around the world." As the largest economy in Latin America, Brazil "matters a great deal" to how the U.S. and global economies perform, he also said. 

 (END) Dow Jones Newswires  11-18-98 

 1328EST 
   RF4220   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REbraz : Brazil | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | lamz : Latin America | namz : North America | samz : South America | usa : United States   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument cm00000020010916dubi02ogn  



 HD N.Y. Stocks: Blue Chips Mixed As Investors Take Profits    WC440 words   PD18 November 1998   ET18:40   SNCapital Markets Report   SCCM   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 1998, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP
   A Wall Street Journal Interactive Edition Roundup



NEW YORK (Dow Jones)--Blue chips were mixed Wednesday, as investors
continued to lock in profits in the wake of Tuesday's interest-rate cuts
by the Federal Reserve.

   TD The industrial average was down 13 points to 8974 in midday trading, while the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index slipped 3 to 1136.30, and the New York Stock Exchange Composite Index lost 1.40 to 559.60. But the Nasdaq Composite Index edged up 2.80 to 1881.30. 

 Declining issues outpaced advancers 1,574 to 1,204 on the Big Board, as volume reached 290 million shares. 

 Stocks struggled to find direction in the wake of Tuesday's rate cuts, which most analysts agreed had already been widely factored into the markets. The Fed cut its target for the federal-funds rate - the rate at which banks lend to each other - to 4.75% from 5%. 

 Fed policy makers also voted to cut the discount rate - the rate the Fed charges banks for overnight loans - to 4.5% from 4.75%. With little corporate or economic news to damp demand for stocks, however, money managers were anxious to put funds to work now that the uncertainty about November rate cut has been removed from the markets. Some analysts were predicting that the most recent easing has set the stage for the industrial average to test its all-time high of 9337.97, set on July 17. 

 But other market observers cautioned that the diminished likelihood of further rate cuts in the near-term may crimp the Dow industrials' ability to build significantly on current levels. 

 The Fed signaled Tuesday that it may be done cutting rates for the time being. The aggressive actions taken since late September to pump up the economy mean that "financial conditions can reasonably be expected to be consistent with fostering sustained economic expansion while keeping inflationary pressures subdued," the Fed stated. 

 Meanwhile, recent economic readings have shown that the U.S. economy has remained robust. The reports lessen the chances that the Fed will move again to stimulate an economy that appears to be faring well, despite the financial turmoil that continues to grip international financial markets. 

 Indeed, data released earlier Tuesday showed the U.S. trade gap narrowing more sharply than expected in September and August, indicating the economy grew at a faster pace than the 3.3% rate estimated by the government in its October report on third-quarter gross domestic product. 

 (MORE) Dow Jones Newswires  11-18-98 

 1240EST 
   RF20716 4116 5042   NSccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m11 : Equity Markets | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia | namz : North America | nz : New Zealand | usa : United States   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument cm00000020010916dubi02ofo  



 HD =Bank Of Canada Rate Cut Likely Last For This Year:Analysts    BY By Don Curren and Paul Evans    WC380 words   PD18 November 1998   ET17:12   SNCapital Markets Report   SCCM   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 1998, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP TORONTO (Dow Jones)--Wednesday morning's widely expected interest rate cut by the Bank of Canada will likely be the last this year, according to several market watchers. 

 But more rate cuts could be coming in 1999, analysts suggested, as the U.S. economy slows down, the U.S. Federal Reserve responds with lower rates, and the Bank of Canada continues to match every Fed move. 
   TD The Bank of Canada cut its benchmark band rate by 25 basis points to 5.25% during its usual 9 a.m. EST (1400 GMT) operational window Wednesday morning. 

 The move came after the U.S. Federal Reserve cut its Federal funds rate by the same amount to 4.75%, and the Canadian central bank cited the Fed move as primary reason for its cut in the news release announcing the move. 

 "With the support that this move by the Federal Reserve provides to stabilize financial markets in the United States and abroad, and given low and stable inflation in Canada, the Bank judged that a similar 1/4 point of one percentage point decline in Canadian short-term interest rates was appropriate," the release said. 

 Wednesday's move marks the third time that the Bank of Canada has moved quickly to match an interest rate cut in the U.S. 

 The cumulative effect of three, 25 basis point cuts, is to unwind most of the 100 basis point increase to the bank rate the Bank of Canada imposed on Aug. 27 in response to a sustained assault on the Canadian dollar and an associated spike in Canadian bond yields. 

 While many analysts believe the Canadian central bank would like to unwind the entire Aug. 27 hike, they also believe the continued vulnerability of the Canadian dollar will keep it from easing more aggressively than the Fed. 

 "The litmus test for the bank, now that we think the Fed will be on hold the rest of the year, will be `does the bank see any window of opportunity for it to cut rates again without the Fed going first,'" said Andrew Pyle, chief strategist at ABN-Amro Canada. 

 (MORE) Dow Jones Newswires  11-18-98 

 1112EST 
   RF4218   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REcana : Canada | namz : North America | usa : United States   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument cm00000020010916dubi02odl  



 HD =N.Y. Stocks Seen Opening Lower As Market Consolidates    WC344 words   PD18 November 1998   ET14:31   SNCapital Markets Report   SCCM   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 1998, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP NEW YORK (Dow Jones)--New York stocks are seen opening slightly lower Wednesday on weaker foreign markets and a temporary lack of upside momentum, according to market sources. 

 "It's looking a little softer," said Al Goldman, director of technical research at A.G. Edwards. 
   TD Foreign markets were generally weak, he said, and the futures indicate sell programs in the U.S. 

 "We're still in consolidation mode - consolidation with a downside bias," Goldman said. 

 He noted that the expected weakness Wednesday could represent a buying opportunity. 

 Separately, he said Tuesday's quarter-point interest rate cut by the Federal Reserve had been factored into the market before it had even occurred, and won't have a discernible effect on Wednesday's trading. 

 On Tuesday the Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 24.97 points, or 0.28%, to 8986.28. The Nasdaq Composite Index, however, gained 16.84 points, or 0.9%, to 1878.52. 

 The Standard & Poor's 500 Stock Index Futures Contract for December was recently down 3.5 points, indicating a lower open, while the benchmark 30-year Treasury was up 3/16, pushing the yield down to 5.283. 

 Asian markets were mixed Wednesday. 

 Korean shares closed slightly lower on a correction over recent advances. Seoul's Kospi index gave up 0.69 points, or 0.2%, to 423.74. 

 Tokyo's Nikkei 225 index gained 186.23, or 1.3%, to close at 14599.23, erasing Tuesday's 15.27-point loss in mixed trading. 

 In Hong Kong, the Hang Seng index rose 64.73, or 0.6%, to close at 10213.42. Tuesday, it tumbled 149.40, or 1.5%. 


European shares were mostly flat. In Germany, the Frankfurt DAX was
recently up 2.71, or 0.06%. The Paris CAC-40 was up 16.49, or 0.5%, and
London's FT-SE 100 was up 7.5, or 0.1%.
   - Victor Ozols; 201-938-5394



(END) Dow Jones Newswires  11-18-98



0831EST

   RF20716 4116 5042   COedwag : Wells Fargo Advisors LLC   INiinv : Investing/Securities   NSccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m11 : Equity Markets | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia | namz : North America | nz : New Zealand | usa : United States | usc : Midwest U.S. | usmo : Missouri   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument cm00000020010916dubi02o6o  



 HD U.S. Tsys In London Rise On Asian Buying, 30-Yr Up 24/32    WC346 words   PD18 November 1998   ET12:09   SNCapital Markets Report   SCCM   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 1998, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP LONDON (Dow Jones)--U.S. Treasurys in London are higher Wednesday after the dollar's gains against the yen prompted Asian investors to buy dollar-denominated securities. 

 An interest rate cut by the U.S. Federal Reserve and the downgrading of Japan's sovereign debt by Moody's Investors Service also helped, traders said. 
   TD "It's mostly Asian interest," said James Mitchell, senior strategist at Nomura International. "There's not much going on in the market, it seems to be more of a technical move." 

 At 1049 GMT, the 5 1/4% 30-year benchmark was trading at 99.30, up 24/32 from late Tuesday in New York. The Chicago Board of Trade's December bond futures contracts were trading at 127-11, up 14 from the previous close. 

 U.S. Treasurys had a muted response to Tuesday's news. The Federal Open Market Committee cut both the official discount rate and the federal-funds target rate by 25 basis points to 4.50% and 4.75%, respectively. 

 While the fed-funds rate cut had largely been discounted, the official discount rate cut was somewhat unexpected. 

 "The Fed's done what's needed for the time being to calm the markets," Mitchell said. "Most people think they will do nothing further until February. Investors will now be waiting for more news on whether the economy is slowing further, and how much." 


At 1052 GMT in London, the dollar was quoted at Y121.29, up from
Y121.02 late Tuesday in New York, and at DEM1.6737, up from DEM1.6690.
   4%       2-year      99 00/32  up   2/32  4.54%
   4 1/4%   5-year      98 23/32  up   4/32  4.54%
   4 3/4%  10-year      99 12/32  up  10/32  4.83%
   5 1/4%  30-year      99 30/32  up  24/32  5.25%
   2-30-yr yield spread: 71 BPS vs 73 BPS



(MORE) Dow Jones Newswires  11-18-98



0609EST

   RF1079 4041 44460   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REeurz : Europe | namz : North America | uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | weurz : Western Europe   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument cm00000020010916dubi02o3u  



 HD Fed Makes 3rd  Interest-Rate  Cut Of Fall, Another Quarter-Point Move    WC1,179 words   PD17 November 1998   ET18:17   SNDow Jones Online News   SCDJON   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 1998, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- Federal Reserve policy makers Tuesday announced a quarter-percentage-point reduction in short-term interest rates, its third easing in seven weeks, as the central bank sought to reassure financial markets it will do what is needed to prevent the economy from slowing too sharply. 

 The Fed lowered its federal-funds target rate to 4.75% from 5% and the discount rate to 4.5% from 4.75%. The discount rate is the charge on loans to banks by the Federal Reserve. The federal-funds rate is the interest rate at which banks lend to one another. 
   TD The Fed's last move was on Oct. 15, when, in a rare intermeeting move, it slashed the federal funds target rate by a quarter point and cut the discount rate by a quarter point as well. Prior to that, it had cut the federal funds rate a quarter point on Sept. 29. 

 "Although conditions in financial markets have settled down materially since mid-October, unusual strains remain," the rate-setting Federal Open Market Committee said in a statement. 

 Following the midafternoon announcement, most of the nation's big banks immediately cut their prime lending rates to 7.75% from 8%. 

 With this third installment in its round of policy easings, the Fed indicated it will likely hold the line on rates in the near future. "With the 75 basis-point decline in the federal-funds rate since September, financial conditions can reasonably be expected to be consistent with fostering sustained economic expansions while keeping inflationary pressures subdued," the FOMC said. 

 "Expectations for further cuts have been reduced substantially," said Ken Fan, market strategist at Paribas Capital Markets in New York. 

 Still, some observers aren't ruling out further easing by the Fed. The odds of another quarter-point rate cut before year-end "are 50-50," said economist Bill Sharp of Chase Securities. Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan "probably still feels he needs insurance," said Robert Brusca, chief economist at Nikko Securities in New York. 

 Barring a surprise move, the Fed's next chance to alter monetary policy will come on Dec. 22, when the FOMC next gets together. 

 The unusual crosscurrents of strength and weakness swirling through the U.S. economy - manufacturing is declining, for example, but consumer spending continues to rise - presented members of the FOMC this week with one of their toughest policy decisions in recent memory. 

 Although the financial markets had been buoyed by continued optimism for another cut in the federal-funds-rate target, analysts weren't too sure the Fed would make another cut. 

 On the side of strength, retail sales rose strongly last month as consumers snapped up new cars and light trucks. Sales were so strong that some forecasters said the economy may grow faster than previously expected, at a healthy pace of 3%-to-4%, in the final three months of the year, with consumers egged on by newly resurgent stock prices. In the quarter ended in September, gross domestic product grew by a surprisingly strong 3.3%. 

 In addition, the U.S. stock market has bounced from its pre-rate-cut lows and is now back near its all-time highs. And the premium on liquidity has eased somewhat since the early autumn panic, which can be seen through narrowing credit spreads. 

 But Greenspan reportedly remains concerned that other forces at work could sap the economy's strength months from now. Chief among those worries are turmoil in parts of the world's financial markets, the slump in manufacturing, smaller monthly gains in payroll employment, rising trade deficits and lingering consumer uncertainty about the economic outlook. A few economists even predict a recession will hit the U.S. next year. 

 Many economists argued that the Fed needed to make its third rate-cut of the fall because so-called real interest rates - official short-term rates minus the inflation rate - remain too high for an economy still threated by global turmoil. 

 "We are definitely in a period of transition right now. It's like when you are driving an automobile around a corner - what you see in the windshield is not necessarily what you are going to see in the rear-view mirror," said Daniel Seto, a senior analyst at Nikko Securities, said before the Fed meeting. "The information from some of the economic barometers still shows some momentum, but that does not reduce the risks for the economy going forward," he said. 

 The risk of a downturn is why some analysts expected Greenspan and his colleagues to decide to essentially buy an insurance policy and reduce short-term interest rates by another quarter-percentage point. The quarter-point cuts made earlier were intended to help stabilize global financial markets, especially the bond market, which had jerked to a near standstill in early September after the Russian government defaulted on its short-term domestic debt. 

 The two previous cuts were largely intended to address the overseas economic troubles, but given the current sense of calm in foreign markets, economists said the latest cut would be aimed at staving off weakness in the U.S. economy. 

 "It looks at this point that the Fed is probably more interested in leading the U.S. economy to a soft landing than acting in response to overseas economic emergencies," said Daniel Seto, senior economist at Nikko Securities. 

 Greenspan is known to prefer taking out "insurance" on the economy, such as his decision to raise rates a notch in March 1997 when the economy appeared likely to grow so fast that inflation might increase. Some say he is taking such a policy again, this time to keep the economy humming. 

 Those arguing against another rate cut were certainly given no ammunition Tuesday when the government released its latest report on inflation. The Labor Department reported consumer prices rose by a modest 0.2% in October, a gain that was smaller than expected. 

 "There is a tension between measures of current economic activity, which have been quite solid, and the more forward-looking data that portray weakness ahead in manufacturing, employment and profits," economist Robert V. DiClemente of Salomon Smith Barney told the Washington Post. 

 Several Fed policy makers were said to be concerned that the fallout from the global financial turmoil, including a continuing drop in U.S. exports, has increased the risk that the economy could drop into a recession next year if interest rates aren't lowered. But those fears were tempered by the recent data pointing to continued solid growth in the economy. 

 Another factor in the Fed's deliberations was the recent increase in the money supply, which has grown following the Fed's latest round of cuts because individuals and businesses are more willing to hold assets in the form of cash or checking deposits, which pay little or no interest. With more easily spendable money on hand, consumers may buy more goods and services. 

 Copyright (c) 1998 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved. 
   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m11 : Equity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument djon000020020329dubh01gjx  



 HD Fed Rate Cut Seen Safe In Current Economic Environment    WC413 words   PD17 November 1998   ET21:12   SNDow Jones News Service   SCDJ   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 1998, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP By Henry J. Pulizzi 

 WASHINGTON (Dow Jones)--The Federal Reserve Tuesday acted to temper the prospects of a slowdown in U.S. economic conditions, lowering the Federal Funds rate 25 basis points to 4.75% and the discount rate 25 basis points to 4.50%. 
   TD The move, widely expected by analysts and financial markets, follows a similar rate cut at the last meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee in late September and a surprise inter-meeting easing on Oct. 15. 

 A recent tightening in lending standards, continued turmoil in international markets and signs the domestic economy may be cooling from above-trend growth had raised expectations for a rate reduction, despite stronger-than-anticipated readings on October retail sales and third quarter gross domestic product. 

 In its announcement the FOMC said, "Although conditions in financial markets have settled down materially since mid-October, unusual strains remain." 

 The Fed Funds rate is the rate charged by commercial banks for overnight loans to one another. The discount rate is the rate charged by the Fed for loans to commercial banks. 

 Some analysts see a rate cut as a good insurance policy at a time of unclear and quickly changing economic conditions. Economists also said the present low-inflation environment gave the Fed added room to ease. 

 "If you're going to make a mistake at this point, better to ease when it's not necessary," said Dana Saporta, an economist with Stone & McCarthy Research Associates. 

 But the future course of Fed policy is uncertain. In its statement, the FOMC said, "With the 75 basis point decline in the federal funds rate since September, financial conditions can reasonably be expected to be consistent with fostering sustained economic expansions while keeping inflationary pressures subdued." 

 Some aren't ruling out more easing by the Fed, however. "I think the odds of another 25 basis-point cut before year-end are 50-50," said economist Bill Sharp of Chase Securities. 

 Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan "probably still feels he needs insurance," said Robert Brusca, chief economist at Nikko Securities in New York. 

 Barring another surprise, inter-meeting move, the Fed's next chance to alter monetary policy will come on Dec. 22, when the FOMC next gets together. 

 The most recent move by the FOMC follows interest rate drops by the Bank of England and other European central banks. 

 (END) DOW JONES NEWS  11-17-98 

 03:12 PM 
   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument dj00000020010916dubh0ajvi  



 HD Verbatim Text Of Fed Statement On  Interest Rate  Cut    WC198 words   PD17 November 1998   ET20:25   SNCapital Markets Report   SCCM   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 1998, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP WASHINGTON (Dow Jones)---Following is the verbatim text of the statement from the Federal Reserve's Open Market Committee statement on its decision to lower interest rates Tuesday: 

 The Federal Reserve today announced the following set of policy actions: 
   TD -The Board of Governors approved a reduction in the discount rate by 25 basis points from 4 3/4 percent to 4 1/2 percent. 

 -The Federal funds rate is expected to fall 25 basis points from around 5 percent to around 4 3/4 percent. 

 Although conditions in financial markets have settled down materially since mid-October, unusual strains remain. With the 75 basis point decline in the Federal funds rate since September, financial conditions can reasonably be expected to be consistent with fostering sustained economic expansion while keeping inflationary pressures subdued. 

 In taking the discount rate action, the Board approved requests submitted by the Boards of Directors of the Federal Reserve Banks of New York, Philadelphia, and Dallas. The discount rate is the interest rate that is charged depository institutions when they borrow from their district Federal Reserve Banks. 

 (END) Dow Jones Newswires  11-17-98 

 1425EST 
   RF4215   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REasiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia | easiaz : Eastern Asia | eurz : Europe | gfr : Germany | jap : Japan | namz : North America | nz : New Zealand | uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | weurz : Western Europe   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument cm00000020010916dubh02npm  

HDAnalysis:  Federal Reserve  may cut interest rates again   WC373 words   PD17 November 1998   SNNBC News: Today   SCTODA   LAEnglish   CY(c) Copyright 1998, NBC Universal Inc. All Rights Reserved.    
   LPKATIE COURIC, co-host:

Later today, the Federal Reserve will meet to decide whether to cut interest rates again. Here to explain what it means is CNBC's Ron Insana.
   TDHello.

RON INSANA reporting:

Hello.

COURIC: All right, what is the Fed expected to do and why?

INSANA: It's about a 60/40 bet right now that the Federal Reserve cuts a short-term interest rate by a quarter point. This would be the third cut in about the past eight weeks. Still, some lingering uncertainties about how the financial markets are doing in the--in the US, even despite the stock market's rebound. So the Fed may want to keep the economy and the markets on an even keel by cutting rates again.

COURIC: Now, this is, as you said, Ron, no guarantee that this will happen. So if it does happen, what will take place?

INSANA: We'll see lower interest rates for mortgages, for car loans, for credit cards, potentially. The stock market would likely rally and the financial markets would stabilize further, which helps to ensure that the economy keeps growing in 1999. Some people are worried of a slowdown in 1999. And a few people are still worried about the possibility of recession.

COURIC: If the Fed decides not to do this, the result?

INSANA: Disappointment in the stock market for sure. You know, the Dow went up 91 points yesterday on the hopes that the Fed will cut rates and the Dow has gone from 7540 on October 8th to 9000 yesterday all based on an easier monetary policy from the Fed.

COURIC: This is the third cut since the end of September. Unusual?

INSANA: Unusual in so far as the timing of it has been unusual. The last cut was between scheduled meetings. The Fed doesn't do that too often. This rate cut may be a little bit more fully anticipated.

COURIC: All right, Ron Insana. Ron, thanks very much.

INSANA: Sure.

COURIC: Nice tie. And, of course, you can follow the markets all day on CNBC on cable.

It's 7:21. We will be back in a moment. This is TODAY on NBC.
   COfed : Federal Reserve Board   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | nanl : Analysis | ntra : Transcript | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBBurrelle?? Information Services   ANDocument TODA000020120224dubh01ch3  



 HD Verbatim Text Of Fed Statement On  Interest Rate  Cut    WC198 words   PD17 November 1998   ET20:25   SNDow Jones Asian Equities Report   SCAER   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 1998, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP WASHINGTON (Dow Jones)---Following is the verbatim text of the statement from the Federal Reserve's Open Market Committee statement on its decision to lower interest rates Tuesday: 

 The Federal Reserve today announced the following set of policy actions: 
   TD -The Board of Governors approved a reduction in the discount rate by 25 basis points from 4 3/4 percent to 4 1/2 percent. 

 -The Federal funds rate is expected to fall 25 basis points from around 5 percent to around 4 3/4 percent. 

 Although conditions in financial markets have settled down materially since mid-October, unusual strains remain. With the 75 basis point decline in the Federal funds rate since September, financial conditions can reasonably be expected to be consistent with fostering sustained economic expansion while keeping inflationary pressures subdued. 

 In taking the discount rate action, the Board approved requests submitted by the Boards of Directors of the Federal Reserve Banks of New York, Philadelphia, and Dallas. The discount rate is the interest rate that is charged depository institutions when they borrow from their district Federal Reserve Banks. 

 (END) Dow Jones Newswires  17-11-98 

 1925GMT 
   RF4215   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m11 : Equity Markets | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | m131 : Money Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument aer0000020010914dubh00z4i  

HD OPINION: With Markets Pacified,  Interest-Rate  Cut Less Certain    BY Mark Davis, The Kansas City Star, Mo.    WC1,179 words   PD17 November 1998   SNKRTBN Knight-Ridder Tribune Business News: The Kansas City Star, Mo   SCKRTBN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright (C) 1998 KRTBN Knight Ridder Tribune Business News; Source: World Reporter (TM)
   LP Nov. 17--Wall Street climbed back over 9,000 Monday, riding on a bet that the Federal Reserve will cut interest rates today. Don't be too surprised if the Fed does nothing and stocks tumble. 

 Many experts likened the market's wager on a third cut in seven weeks to betting on a coin flip. 
   TD "I think they'll cut again, but it's probably a 50-50 proposition," said John Cleland, chief investment strategist for the Security Benefit Group in Topeka. 

 Two weeks ago, the odds of another interest-rate cut seemed high, almost certain. But strong consumer spending, a calm credit market, an ebullient stock market and repair work on international problems whittled away at the certainty. 

 Former Fed Governor Wayne Angell, now chief economist at Bear, Stearns & Co. Inc., said he was sticking with his prediction of a rate cut today. 

 "But I must tell you, recent events sort of undercut my forecast," Angell said Monday. 

 Gone is the market panic that triggered the previous cut, in mid-October. And that cut was the work of one man, Alan Greenspan. The Fed chairman used his authority to cut interest rates midway between regular meetings of the Fed's policy committee. Today, the committee meets. 

 "It's certainly not going to be a unanimous vote," Cleland said. 

 Nor is there agreement in the markets. Stocks are priced with a rate cut in mind, but many bond market sources agreed that bonds are not. 

 Inaction by the Fed today easily could shock the stock market or buoy the bond market. But it isn't expected to change the Fed's course toward lower interest rates in the long run. 

 A steady course would lead to lower mortgage and car-loan rates for consumers, lower certificate of deposit rates for savers and cheaper borrowing costs for businesses. 

 If there is no cut today, market observers said, it probably will come in late December at the central bankers' next scheduled meeting. 

 The Fed policy-makers meet today amid a return to euphoria on Wall Street. The Dow Jones industrial average -- which fell from 9,337.97 in mid-July to 7,539.07 at the end of August -- closed Monday at 9,011.25. The benchmark market barometer stands only 3.5 percent below its all-time high in July. 

 The Fed meeting also will follow the release this morning of the latest Consumer Price Index report, which is expected to show that inflation remains under control. 

 But, a little more than a month ago, stock and bond markets were in turmoil. 

 The Fed had cut interest rates on Sept. 29, lowering its benchmark federal funds rate by one-quarter of a percentage point, to 5.25 percent. The fed funds rate is the interest rate that banks charge one another on overnight loans of banking reserves. The Fed influences the rate by how much reserves it adds to or drains from the banking system. 

 Many observers cried for a bigger cut. And, as other interest rates continued to fall, the fed funds rate was trapped by policy. Even rates on 30-year Treasury bonds were lower than rates on the overnight bank loans. 

 Panic had gripped the market. Investors here and abroad were dumping stocks and buying U.S. Treasury securities -- in effect cashing out. 

 Bond fund managers complained that they couldn't get bids for corporate bonds they wanted to sell. Suddenly, interest rates for higher-risk corporate bonds were going up, in hopes of attracting bidders, even as Treasury rates plunged. 

 That's when Greenspan stepped in with another quarter-point cut in the fed funds rate, plus a quarter-point cut in the discount rate. The latter is the interest rate the Fed charges when it lends reserves to banks. 

 Greenspan staged his Oct. 15 surprise largely to assure the markets that the Fed would do what it needed to do to ensure market stability. It worked. @brk:Lacking urgency 

 Now, bond-fund managers say they can trade their corporate bonds readily and without taking big price cuts. 

 Now, the stock market has recovered nearly all of its summer losses, thanks to an October that turned out to be the best month on Wall Street in 11 years. Stocks soared even faster than when Greenspan was warning of "irrational exuberance" in early December 1996. The Dow stood near 6,400 when Greenspan issued his warning. 

 Even problems in Asia and Latin America are getting attention at last. The International Monetary Fund has put up $41.5 billion to get Brazil's economy on the road to recovery. Japan's government has finally voted for a banking industry rescue package. Though these are mere beginnings on major problems, they are beginnings. 

 Ted Martin, director of fixed-income investments at David L. Babson & Co., said that without those concerns, the Fed lacks the urgency to cut rates. 

 "The economy in this country still looks pretty good," said Martin, who also puts the likelihood of a cut today at 50-50. 

 There is more debate about the U.S. economy than Martin's comment suggests. Signs of strength have coincided with signs of weakness: October retail sales reports were robust, but the latest employment report showed sluggishness. Consumer spending is strong, but income growth has stopped. @brk:Inflation eased 

 There is one front upon which the experts agree: inflation. It practically has disappeared, and that gives the Fed plenty of room to cut rates today. 

 The Fed held up interest rates into the summer largely over concerns that a roaring U.S. economy would rekindle inflation. The relatively high federal funds rate kept borrowing costs high enough to discourage some economic activity and curb price and wage increases. 

 Now, with virtually no inflation, the Fed could easily cut its fed funds rate another quarter of a point without seeming to add fuel to the economy's inflationary fires. 

 The resulting 4.75 percent fed funds rate and near zero inflation also would leave Greenspan room for another surprise to shoot down market panics. 

 All of which leaves the many guessers perplexed about the Fed's mind-set today and what fates await the bond and stock markets. 

 But when Greenspan marshals support for a rate cut today, he's unlikely to worry about any short-term reactions from Wall Street. Stable prices and economic growth remain keys. 

 "They're thinking of next spring and next summer," said David Sederholm, who manages clients' accounts at Preservation Capital Management L.L.C. in Kansas City. 

 Planners often suggest that investors also take a long-term philosophy about market swings. Sederholm said that if the stock market tumbled after the Fed meeting, he would consider it another buying opportunity. Just like that short summer slump turned out to be. 

 To reach Mark Davis, a business writer for The Star, call 234-4372 or send e-mail to mdavis@kcstar.com 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REasiaz : Asia | gulfstz : Persian Gulf Regions | meastz : Middle East | namz : North America | qatar : Qatar | usa : United States | wasiaz : Western Asia   IPC9311   IPDInterest Rates | Economic Indicators | Economic News | United States of America, Americas~US | Americas | North America | Pacific Rim | Federal_Reserve_-_United_States | Finance Taxation & Monetary Policy   ANDocument krtbn00020010917dubh017pk  

HD Federal Reserve  Board Meeting Arouses Anticipation of Rate Cut    BY Merrill Goozner    WC969 words   PD17 November 1998   SNKRTBN Knight-Ridder Tribune Business News: Chicago Tribune   SCKRTBN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright (C) 1998 KRTBN Knight Ridder Tribune Business News; Source: World Reporter (TM)
   LP Nov. 17--WASHINGTON--Even though most analysts expect Federal Reserve policymakers to cut interest rates another quarter-point Tuesday, renewed exuberance in the nation's stock markets and better-than-expected domestic economic performance may be giving board members second thoughts. 

 "It's a pretty iffy proposition," Wayne Angell, a former Fed governor who now is chief economist at Bear Stearns & Co., said Monday. "We'll learn a lot more about the Fed ... than we will learn about the economy." 
   TD Turmoil in the nation's stock and credit markets has driven the Fed to cut its key interbank lending rate to 5 percent from 5.50 percent in less than two months. 

 Spreads between corporate bonds and long-term Treasury bonds had widened to recessionary levels, making it harder for even some credit-worthy companies to get financing. 

 Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan, speaking to business economists a week before the Fed cut rates a quarter-point on Oct. 15, said uncontrollable events overseas had created a "fear-induced psychological response." 

 A lot has changed since then. Asian stock markets and currencies have rebounded somewhat from their extreme lows. The International Monetary Fund-led $41.5 billion emergency loan fund for Brazil announced Friday has reduced fears about the economic outlook for Latin America. 

 Japan has come up with economic stimulus and bank bailout packages, too. Although less than anticipated, those programs offer some reason to hope that the world's second-largest economy won't remain mired in recession forever. 

 And, of course, the U.S. stock market has regained nearly all the ground lost since Russia's default on its debt in mid-August exacerbated a two-month decline in stock prices. The Dow Jones industrial average moved up another 91.66 points Monday to close at 9011.25, the first time it closed above 9000 since last July. 

 The bellwether average has gained 19.5 percent since its low for the year of 7539 on Aug. 31. It now is just 3.5 percent under its record closing high of 9337.97 on July 17. And unlike the rally in the first half of the year, smaller and mid-sized companies have moved up smartly along with the big companies that dominate the Dow. 

 Despite the market's rebound, some of the domestic economic problems that drove the Fed to cut rates have abated only slightly. Interest rate spreads have narrowed, but only a bit. The spread between a Baa-rated corporate bond and the 30-year Treasury remains over 2 percentage points, a level not seen since the last recession. 

 When rates for corporate borrowing are high, companies are forced to cut back on day-to-day activities financed by bank borrowings or corporate debt issuance. That means less capital investment, less business travel and less cash available to invest in new ventures. 

 So while consumer spending remains strong, the overall economy has clearly pulled back from its rapid growth of the first half of the year. 

 Yet upbeat consumers and the prospect of a healthy Christmas buying season continue to push it toward the soft landing of slower growth rather than the hard landing of recession. 

 The most recent government economic reports reveal how the competing tendencies in the economies have tended to balance each other. 

 Retail sales announced Friday rose a better-than-expected 1 percent in October, after slowing to 0.3 percent in September when consumers rattled by the declining stock market pulled back on their purchases. 

 But the industrial production and capacity utilization figures released Monday by the Fed showed that a slowing manufacturing sector is pushing the economy in the other direction. Declining exports and soaring imports from the crisis-ridden countries of East Asia have forced goods makers to bear the brunt of the current slowdown. 

 Industrial production fell another 0.1 percent in October. Capacity utilization at the nation's factories fell 0.4 percentage point to 80.6 percent, which is 1.5 percentage points below its 30-year average. The nation has lost nearly 200,000 manufacturing jobs since the peak last spring, with the steel and apparel industries -- both hard hit by imports -- accounting for half those losses. 

 While these factors point to another rate cut to 4.75 percent, inflation hawks on the 11-member Federal Open Market Committee are not without ammunition to argue against the move. They will be led by Jerry Jordan, president of the Cleveland Federal Reserve Bank, who was the only member to vote against the last rate cut. 

 The core inflation rate (not counting food and energy, both of which have been undergoing severe deflation) rose 2.4 percent for the first nine months of this year, compared to 2.2 percent in all of 1997. Health care costs are again rising sharply. 

 "I don't see any more disinflation," said Tim O'Neill, chief economist for Harris Bank/Bank of Montreal. "We'll continue to see weak commodity prices and an absence of pricing power in manufacturing, but these factors will be fading." 

 In recent months, fears of a slowing economy have shaped Fed policy. But the stock market has become its own worst enemy, according to some economists. 

 A slowing economy must eventually be reflected in falling earnings reports, a fact that is hard to discern from the recent run-up in stock prices. 

 "Instead of easing a credit crunch, Greenspan has watched all the liquidity from the last rate cut go into a bubble for stocks," said Edward Yardeni, chief economist at Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. "The relief rally has turned into a buying panic." 

 ON THE INTERNET: Get updates on the Fed's rate decision this afternoon at chicagotribune.com/go/business 
   INi814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REasiaz : Asia | gulfstz : Persian Gulf Regions | meastz : Middle East | namz : North America | qatar : Qatar | usa : United States | wasiaz : Western Asia   IPC9311 | 6019   IPDBear_Stearns_Cos_Inc | Interest Rates | Economic Indicators | Economic News | Meetings | Company News | United States of America, Americas~US | Americas | North America | Pacific Rim | Washington | Finance Taxation & Monetary Policy, Central Reserve Depository NEC   ANDocument krtbn00020010917dubh017kf  

HD Federal Reserve  May Make Third  Interest-Rate  Cut    BY Frank Witsil    WC504 words   PD17 November 1998   SNKRTBN Knight-Ridder Tribune Business News: The Augusta Chronicle, Ga   SCKRTBN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright (C) 1998 KRTBN Knight Ridder Tribune Business News; Source: World Reporter (TM)
   LP Nov. 17--Federal Reserve policy-makers, scheduled to meet today, could make the third cut in short-term rates since late September --lowering rates by as much as a quarter percentage point, economist Mark Vitner said. 

 Mr. Vitner, an analyst for First Union Capital Markets Group in Charlotte, N.C., spoke Monday at a Kiwanis Club of Augusta luncheon. 
   TD While Asia's economic problems have spilled over into the United States, triggering layoffs at export-dependent factories and price slashing by American manufacturers, financial woes abroad have not adversely effected Augusta as much as they have other places, Mr. Vitner said. 

 "When are the problems going to show up? It gets complicated," he said. 

 Paper and chemical industries may be affected most in the Augusta area, but both seem to be weathering the storm so far, he said. Many companies in the United States are insulated from the troubles abroad because the products they produce are sold domestically. 

 One victim of the Asian economic crisis, however, is Hankook Synthetics, a South Korean company that announced it would building a $1.2 billion polyester plant in Augusta. That project was put on hold. 

 "I think it's going to take a stronger world economy before we see projects of that scale," Mr. Vitner said. "But the project's not totally dead, it's still feasible." 

 Two groups of financial analysts have been debating what the Fed will do today. The camp Mr. Vitner falls into argues that the Fed will lower rates in a bid to prop up recent fragile advances in foreign financial markets. The other says the Fed's priority is the domestic economy, which continues to hum and doesn't need the stimulation that lower rates would provide. 

 The Federal Reserve reduced rates on Sept. 29 and again on Oct. 15. The federal funds rate -- the rate banks charge each other for overnight loans -- is now 5 percent and the discount rate is 4.75 percent. 

 Armed with a handful of charts, Mr. Vitner explained Monday that while Asia and elsewhere's economic turmoil has benefited consumers, it has hurt businesses -- spurring intense price competition, wage increases and a credit crunch. 

 The credit crisis has not affected consumers or small and mid-size businesses, the economist said. But it has taken its toll mainly on large companies. 

 And consumers are benefiting from the Asian trouble from lowered prices. 

 Mr. Vitner predicts a robust holiday shopping season -- a 5 percent increase over last year and as much as a 7 or 8 percent increase in Georgia. His numbers are higher than those made by University of Georgia director of economic forecasting Jeffrey M. Humphreys, who predicted sales will increase by only 3.5 percent. 

 But the worst fallout from Asia's trouble may be on the way. 

 "Next year, there will be more negative impacts," Mr. Vitner said. "The risk of recession is greater next year than any other time in the 1990s." 
   INi814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REasiaz : Asia | gulfstz : Persian Gulf Regions | meastz : Middle East | namz : North America | qatar : Qatar | usa : United States | wasiaz : Western Asia   IPC6019   IPDInterest Rates | Economic Indicators | Economic News | United States of America, Americas~US | Americas | North America | Pacific Rim | Central Reserve Depository NEC   ANDocument krtbn00020010917dubh017b5  



 HD Credit Record: How the Fed Fumbled, And Then Recovered, In Making Policy Shift --- Greenspan, on Second Try, Found Right Formula To Convey His Message --- Criticism From a Desk Clerk    BY By David Wessel    CRStaff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal   WC2,591 words   PD17 November 1998   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGA1   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 1998, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)
   LP WASHINGTON -- Shortly after the Federal Reserve announced early in the afternoon on Sept. 29 that it was cutting interest rates, top Fed officials realized they had made a mistake. 

 They had hoped their first rate cut in nearly three years would reassure financial markets that the world's most powerful central bank was prepared to do what was needed to avoid a global economic meltdown. 
   TD But Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan, known for often-obscure pronouncements, had sounded a clear alert that a rate cut was imminent, and the markets shrugged when the Fed trimmed just a quarter percentage point off its key short-term interest rate. 

 Edward Boehne, president of the Philadelphia Federal Reserve Bank, says he knew a few days later that the Fed had goofed. When he checked into a hotel in a small town in Pennsylvania, the clerk looked at his title and said, "You didn't do enough." 

 "You don't usually get that from a hotel clerk," Mr. Boehne says. 

 Inside the Fed, the next two weeks were filled with introspection and second-guessing of Mr. Greenspan's go-slow proclivities. 

 The handful of Fed policy makers who had argued for a more dramatic half-percentage-point rate cut felt vindicated. Officials at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York worried that the rate cut had done little to reverse a stampede away from risky, and even not-so-risky, bonds. 

 Quietly, but forcefully, New York Fed President William McDonough, 64, who sees himself as a potential successor to the 72-year-old Mr. Greenspan, and Alice Rivlin, the former White House budget director who is vice chairman of the Fed, pushed for something more. 

 That "something more" turned out to be a surprise quarter-percentage-point cut in rates on Oct. 15, a moment that Mr. Greenspan chose because he sensed that financial markets were ready to respond favorably. 

 The Fed knew the move would grab attention: It was first time since 1994 that the central bank had changed interest rates between scheduled policy-committee meetings. But would it provide a jolt of confidence to the markets? Or would it be seen as evidence that the Fed's take on the financial crisis was bleaker than everyone else's? 

 To the Fed's relief, it turned out to be the former. Markets rallied instantly, and have hardly looked back. 

 Indeed, as Fed officials prepare to sit down today around their 2-ton mahogany-and-granite conference table to ponder another rate cut, prospects for the U.S. economy look rosier than they did a month ago -- so much better that some Wall Street analysts who were confidently predicting the Fed would reduce rates again now aren't so sure. 

 The economy seems to be growing at a better-than-expected pace of nearly 3% in the second half of 1998. The stock market is ebullient, causing a few at the Fed to begin worrying again about "irrational exuberance," and prompting some to raise forecasts for consumer spending next year. Global markets are calmer. 

 Nonetheless, the Fed's internal forecasts indicate the economy will slow substantially in the first half of 1999, putting the nearly eight-year-long U.S. expansion at risk. The bond market is still showing signs of stress and lack of liquidity. And Fed officials know that if they are to give any boost to next year's economy, they must move soon. But whether or not a rate cut comes today Tues., the widespread expectation is for further cuts in the months ahead. 

 For an institution that rarely changes direction quickly, this is a remarkably rapid about-face. After all, the Fed came very close to raising interest rates this past spring because it feared the unexpected vitality of the U.S. economy would lead to inflation. 

 The policy change reflects the deterioration of the global outlook following Russia's default on its debts in August. But the Fed hasn't always reacted rapidly to changes in the financial environment. Indeed, at times, it has prided itself on not being swayed by Wall Street phobias of the moment. 

 For several reasons, this time was different: 

 -- The current crop of Fed policy makers is more pragmatic than in the past. Those who adhere to a particular school of thought -- tracking the money supply or comparing today's jobless rate to the rate at which inflation has taken off in the past -- have been trumped by the fact that inflation hasn't taken off as they anticipated. Inflation has been falling even though unemployment is at a quarter-century low. To predictions from Fed colleagues that inflation is around the corner, Mr. Greenspan has replied simply: Show me evidence. There hasn't been much. 

 -- Influential Fed officials, including Mr. Greenspan, saw this as a time when prudent policy meant looking beyond conventional gauges. It meant asking questions like: With Japan in political paralysis and Europe preoccupied with monetary union, what can the U.S. central bank do to avert a global financial catastrophe? The Fed rarely faces such questions, but when it does, the consequences of error are huge: witness the Great Depression. 

 -- Mr. Greenspan, who dominates the institution he has run since 1987, saw a threat to what he calls the best economy in 50 years. Credibility is hard to measure, but Mr. Greenspan has lots of it. When he resisted pressure to raise rates, the markets didn't assault him as soft on inflation, and his uneasy colleagues didn't revolt. When he decided it was time to cut rates, the rest of the Fed followed. 

 Although the Fed chief cultivates consensus, there is no doubt who calls the shots. At meetings of the Fed's policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee, Mr. Greenspan listens as each official gives his or her views on the economy. But when it is time to decide what to do about interest rates, Mr. Greenspan speaks first. Anyone advocating a different policy has to make a deliberate decision to differ with him. 

 A majority on the FOMC had been eager to raise rates early in the fall of 1997, before the virulence of the Asian flu was evident. That September, Mr. Greenspan held them off, arguing that he hadn't prepared the markets. When the committee reconvened in October and November, intensifying economic woes in Asia made raising rates nearly impossible. 

 When the FOMC met at the end of March, the Asian financial crisis appeared to be in remission. The long-predicted slowdown in the U.S. economy had failed to arrive. The ghost of inflation was lurking, even if there were few signs that wages or prices were going up more rapidly. 

 "There was a sense that maybe the Asian drag wasn't going to be as great as anticipated," Alfred Broaddus, president of the Richmond, Va., Federal Reserve Bank, recalled in an interview during the summer. 

 Again, Mr. Greenspan, who doubted that the wage increases feared by some Fed officials would actually materialize, talked his colleagues out of raising rates. But he joined the consensus that a rate increase was "a likely prospect in the not too distant future," according to a published summary of the session. The question wasn't if, but when. With unemployment at a low 4.6% and the pace of money-supply growth quickening, there was no thought given to cutting rates. 

 By July, a rate increase no longer seemed a certainty -- at least to Mr. Greenspan. Although the FOMC was still formally leaning in favor of higher rates in the written statement it crafts at the end of each meeting, the chairman signaled in congressional testimony in late July that he wasn't. By the Fed's August meeting, which came just a day after Russia's default, it was clear that weakening exports and mounting inventories were squeezing American manufacturers. Few Fed officials still were thinking about higher rates, but most weren't ready to lower them. 

 Each year at the end of August, Mr. Greenspan and other top Fed officials attend the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City's conference at Jackson Hole, Wyo., in the majestic Tetons. This year's topic was inequality, but the only subject of coffee-break, hiking-trail and golf-course conversation was what to do about the spreading global financial crisis. Private economists, eager to be quoted, sought out reporters to argue for cutting rates. Fed officials, just as eager not to be quoted, pooh-poohed those arguments. 

 But the important conversations were taking place in the quiet huddles in and around the Jackson Lake Lodge among the five Fed governors, seven Fed bank presidents and top Fed and foreign central-bank staffers who were there. The market reaction to Russia's default was severe and unexpected. The daily reports that the New York Fed prepared for officials showed a worrisome, widening gap between the yield on corporate bonds and government bonds, a rare occurrence except when the economy is in recession. In the market for supersafe U.S. Treasury bonds, there was an unusually strong preference for the most easily traded issues, which the Fed read as a sign of unhealthy anxiety. 

 It was, the Fed officials agreed, time for them to say something to the world. 

 Mr. Greenspan stuck to his plan to spend a week at a tennis camp, though he got so many phone calls about the plunging stock market that he jokes that he kept a tennis racket in one hand and a cellular phone in the other. But a speech planned for the University of California at Berkeley's business school on Friday, Sept. 4, offered a convenient opportunity. 

 Clearing key passages in advance with each member of the FOMC, Mr. Greenspan declared that the U.S. couldn't hope to remain an "oasis of prosperity." As flatly as he ever says anything, he said the Fed no longer was leaning toward raising rates. 

 A week later, a statement from the world's leading central bankers and finance ministers led to speculation that the central banks would cut rates in concert. But Mr. Greenspan and his peers don't like anyone thinking they subordinate national priorities to global ones -- even if they sometimes do. Mr. Greenspan's German counterpart, Hans Tietmeyer, quickly quashed the notion that he was coordinating anything with anyone. Mr. Greenspan did the same, telling Congress on Sept. 16, "At the moment, there is no endeavor to coordinate interest-rate cuts." He said other things, too, but that was all the markets heard. 

 In the days that followed, bond-market investors grew even more skittish, making it difficult for many firms to borrow. Caught off-guard, Long-Term Capital Management LP, the huge hedge fund, came crawling to the New York Fed, saying it needed capital and was having trouble raising it. If LTC's holdings were dumped on the bond market all at once, New York Fed President McDonough told Mr. Greenspan, the odds of calamity were uncomfortably high. On Sept. 20, New York Fed officials got a look at Long-Term Capital's books. They were shocked. 

 While Mr. McDonough and his staff tried to organize a Wall Street rescue of Long-Term Capital, Mr. Greenspan focused on how perplexed the markets were about the Fed's inclinations. 

 To keep other Fed officials happy, Mr. Greenspan makes major policy changes only at FOMC meetings -- partly so the Fed doesn't look like the one-man show it often is. But the FOMC wasn't set to meet until Sept. 29. He didn't want to wait. He accepted a standing invitation to testify before the Senate Budget Committee. On Sept. 21, even though some Fed officials were unavailable because it was the Jewish New Year, he convened a conference call to be sure his colleagues were also ready to cut rates. 

 They were. On Capitol Hill, Mr. Greenspan essentially announced the Fed was about to act. "We know where we have to go," he said. The stock market cheered, even though it would be six days until the Fed actually lowered to 5 1/4% its target for the federal-funds rate, the interest rate at which banks lend to one another. 

 The argument for initially cutting rates by only a quarter point prevailed because most Fed officials figured that simply changing direction would make a big enough splash. "I thought the amount was irrelevant," says Mr. Boehne, the Philadelphia Fed president. "The problem with 50 basis points" -- jargon for a half percentage point -- "was that people could have inferred that we knew more bad things than we did." Mr. Greenspan made the same argument internally. 

 But after the Fed's Sept. 29 announcement, the stock market sagged, and the worrisome spreads in the bond market widened. 

 A week later, Mr. Greenspan delivered a rambling, off-the-cuff early morning speech to the National Association for Business Economics. He had two goals. The first was to dispel the sense of doom and gloom that had descended. Officials from emerging-market economies who had come to Washington for the annual meetings of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank had talked as if the era of capitalism were over. The press was filled with what he considered overblown talk of a wrenching credit crunch. 

 The second goal, somewhat at odds with the first, was to lay the foundation for another rate cut by detailing the evidence that uncertainty and fear were causing investors to, as he put it, "disengage." 

 But when to cut? Fed officials couldn't afford another tactical error or muddled message. They didn't want anyone to think they were responding to a particular economic indicator, to a down day in the stock market or to rumors that a big bank was about to collapse. 

 By Thursday, Oct. 15, Mr. Greenspan figured the spreads in the bond market he had been tracking had grown so wide that they were bound to begin to narrow soon. It was time. He convened a telephone conference call of the FOMC. 

 Participants say the hour-long conversation was unusual. Breaking from past practice, Mr. Greenspan let each Fed governor and bank president speak before stating his druthers, an effort to bolster the sense that he was seeking a consensus. When he disclosed his plans, no one objected strenuously -- and he didn't ask for a vote. 

 The move was a success (except for an embarrassing typo in the 3:14 p.m. news release, in which the Fed misstated the details of the rate cut). Stocks and bonds leapt. One measure Mr. Greenspan has been tracking closely -- the difference between yields on more-easily traded and less-easily traded Treasurys-improved. 

 On their TV sets and computer screens, Fed officials watched the instant analysis with a bit of trepidation. But the reaction was almost universally favorable, and the intended message was received: The Fed was prepared to do what was necessary. "Yes!" one Fed governor said late that afternoon after listening to a Wall Street pundit on CNBC, the business cable channel. "They got it right." 

 Journal Link: Join an online discussion about the Federal Reserve's policy shift in The Wall Street Journal Interactive Edition at http://wsj.com
   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | npag : Page-One Story   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument j000000020010917dubh00u5d  



 SE City comment    HD Fed may well put home economy first    BY Robert Miller    WC506 words   PD17 November 1998   SNThe Express   SCTHEEXP   PG45   LAEnglish   CYCopyright (C) 1998 The Express
   LP YOU will hear few if any voices calling on the US Federal Reserve to raise its key interest rate when it meets today. Quite the contrary. 

 Almost every market and economy around the world is willing the Fed to cut its rate not because it will immediately make things better but because it will be a signal to all investors that global interest rates are indeed heading downwards. Where the US Fed leads others will follow. 
   TD But why should the United States be looked upon as the consumer of last resort? The job of Alan Greenspan, the veteran US Fed chief, is to protect the American economy. Like most of his central bank counterparts he will be studying mixed data. Latest US producer prices, for example, showed a 0.2 per cent increase last month but they are still 0.7 per cent lower over the past 12 months. 

 One of the most important factors in the Fed's decision - it really only needs to decide whether to hold rates or lower them - will be the consumer price figures, also due out today. Evidence to date suggests that US consumers are still in the mood to spend, reinforced by October's surprisingly strong car sales. 

 There is one point, however, that is being overlooked. US citizens do not save and nearly all their disposable wealth (plus borrowed funds in many cases) is tied up in the stock market. If Wall Street shares were to crash then, at a stroke, US investors would lose 20 per cent of their wealth. So does the Fed really need to encourage consumers to spend (or borrow) even more? 

 On the other hand the US has a crucial role to play as the world's leading economy. It is no good looking to its nearest economic rival Japan. Sure the Japanese government yesterday unveiled a stonking GBP115 billion economic stimulus package but that will primarily be used to stave off an even more serious recession rather than cure all ills and it will take at least two years to sort out the heavily indebted Japanese banking sector. 

 Other trouble spots likely to feature prominently at the US Fed today will certainly include Brazil and its GBP25 billion rescue package from the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank. 

 Before this Latin American powerhouse can do anything it must cut its real interest rates from the present crippling 30 per cent plus mark otherwise the economy will sag under the yoke of such crippling rate levels. 

 Last night the London market was expecting a US rate cut today tempered with only a dash of caution in case the Fed decides to hold its hand. 

 On all the evidence to date I think Greenspan may well hold his hand to next month and then cut rates in December. If the Fed does cut rates then it will be with its global leader hat on rather than as a prudent domestic central banker. 
   INi814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REasiaz : Asia | gulfstz : Persian Gulf Regions | meastz : Middle East | namz : North America | qatar : Qatar | usa : United States | wasiaz : Western Asia   IPC6019   IPDInterest Rates | Economic Indicators | Economic News | United States of America, Americas~US | Americas | North America | Pacific Rim | Central Reserve Depository NEC   ANDocument theexp0020010916dubh00262  



 HD Amex Chmn: Fed Likely To 'Sit Back' For A While After Cuts    WC175 words   PD17 November 1998   ET23:07   SNDow Jones News Service   SCDJ   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 1998, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP NEW YORK (Dow Jones)--The U.S. Federal Reserve likely will take a more observational stance on the economy following Tuesday's interest-rate cuts, said American Stock Exchange Chairman Richard Syron. 

 "What the Fed will do now is sit back a little bit and give markets a chance to absorb this information," he said in an interview with CNBC. 
   TD As reported, the Federal Reserve trimmed both the Fed funds rate and the discount rate by 25 basis points to 4.75% and 4.50%, respectively. 

 Syron said the rate cuts were an attempt by the Fed to "diminish some of the risk premiums in markets," but were not oriented toward the stock market. 


The Amex chairman said he wouldn't rule out the possibility of further
rate cuts in the future but said that, barring unforeseen events,
another cut before the end of 1998 seems unlikely.
   - Justin A. Oppelaar; 201-938-5175



(END) DOW JONES NEWS  11-17-98



05:07 PM

   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nitv : Interview   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument dj00000020010916dubh0akz8  



 HD Verbatim Text Of Fed Statement On  Interest Rate  Cut    WC199 words   PD17 November 1998   ET20:25   SNDow Jones News Service   SCDJ   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 1998, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP WASHINGTON (Dow Jones)---Following is the verbatim text of the statement from the Federal Reserve's Open Market Committee statement on its decision to lower interest rates Tuesday: 

 The Federal Reserve today announced the following set of policy actions: 
   TD -The Board of Governors approved a reduction in the discount rate by 25 basis points from 4 3/4 percent to 4 1/2 percent. 

 -The Federal funds rate is expected to fall 25 basis points from around 5 percent to around 4 3/4 percent. 

 Although conditions in financial markets have settled down materially since mid-October, unusual strains remain. With the 75 basis point decline in the Federal funds rate since September, financial conditions can reasonably be expected to be consistent with fostering sustained economic expansion while keeping inflationary pressures subdued. 

 In taking the discount rate action, the Board approved requests submitted by the Boards of Directors of the Federal Reserve Banks of New York, Philadelphia, and Dallas. The discount rate is the interest rate that is charged depository institutions when they borrow from their district Federal Reserve Banks. 

 (END) DOW JONES NEWS  11-17-98 

 02:25 PM 
   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | m131 : Money Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument dj00000020010916dubh0ajk0  



 HD U.S. Debt Futures End Mixed As December Bond Loses 12/32    WC502 words   PD17 November 1998   ET23:18   SNCapital Markets Report   SCCM   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 1998, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP CHICAGO (Dow Jones)--Interest rate futures rose quickly, then fell just as fast to end mixed as the Federal Reserve surprised few by cutting 25 basis points off its key federal funds rate. 

 The December bond contract ended down 12/32 at 126-30, recovering from a low of 126-21 hit after heavy selling by Goldman, Sachs in response to the rate cut. 
   TD "It's buy the rumor sell the fact," said Brad Tyl, vice-president at IBJ Lanston. 

 Some fresh, emotional buying after the rate cut pushed the December bond up in a fast market to a high around 127-24, but it ran into a resistance at that level. The contract retreated back towards 127-16, and then plunged again and encountered a fast market below 127-00 enroute to the low. 

 Eurodollar futures managed to stay above water, with the March contract ended trading at the Chicago Mercantile Exchange up 4 basis points at 95.23. 

 Traders expect the decline in bond futures to continue at least for the next couple of days. In fact, the December contract is down about 2/32 in after-hours Project A electronic trading at the Chicago Board of Trade. 

 William Keuffel, technical strategist at Optima Investment Research, believes the December contract is on its way to the 124 level - an area where resistance had built up before the market exploded higher in August. 

 "The large rally in the stock market in reaction to the three Fed rate cuts is additional evidence the cuts are probably not favorable for the long end of the credit market," Keuffel said, noting the recent rise in the stock market - although it was down Wednesday - and easier monetary policy will help invigorate the economy. 

 There was a fairly wide consensus anticipating a market decline if the Fed did cut rates, believing that monetary policy would be on hold into 1999. 

 "We're probably done for the year," said one Eurodollar trader. 

 As a result of that sentiment, implied volatility in bond options dropped fairly significantly after the rate cut, as few expect wild price movements between now and the end of the year. 

 Keuffel said some of the negative sentiment began last Thursday when the market stalled at 128-08, 1/32 below the level set Nov. 3 ahead of the three-day quarterly refunding that hurt the market. 


Furthermore, positive prospects for the economy, and the hopes of
greater liquidity following the rate cuts, may bring more corporate
issues to market that could weigh on Treasury prices.
Dec Federal Funds             95.20       Up 6.0 Bp
Mar 1999 Eurodollars          95.230      Up 4.0 Bp
Dec 10-Years                  118-13      Dn 4/32
Dec T-Bonds                   126-30      Dn 12/32
Mar 99 to Mar 00 Euro Spread -11.5% Vs -9.0%
   Michael McHugh (312)750-4142



michael.mchugh@cor.dowjones.com



(END) Dow Jones Newswires  11-17-98



1718EST

   RF4101   INiinv : Investing/Securities   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m15 : Derivative Securities | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States | use : Northeast U.S. | usny : New York   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument cm00000020010916dubh02nvz  



 HD U.S. Agencies: 2-Yr Debt Tightens After FOMC; New Deals Slow    WC353 words   PD17 November 1998   ET22:25   SNCapital Markets Report   SCCM   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 1998, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP NEW YORK (Dow Jones)--The short end of the U.S. agency curve tightened moderately Tuesday afternoon in response to the Federal Reserve's decision to ease key short-term interest rates. 

 Agency debt traders attributed the firming to narrowing swap spreads at the front of the curve, the typical bullish reaction to an interest-rate cut. Yield spreads for longer agency issues were essentially unchanged from their levels before the Fed made the announcement. 
   TD Meanwhile, anticipation ahead of the Fed's announcement caused primary issuance of dollar-denominated bonds to slow to its lowest level in more than two weeks; issuers offered $1.140 billion of new securities in 26 new deals. 

 But Fannie Mae (FNM) did offer sterling investors something to chew on earlier in the day, with a GBP 250 million offering of new five-year global notes. The agency said it was its first new pound-denominated offering in that part of the yield curve since February 1997. Proceeds were swapped to dollars, a Fannie Mae official said. 

 On Tuesday afternoon the policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee announced 25 basis point cuts in the federal-funds and discount rates. 

 As shorter swap tenors narrowed in response, spreads on two-year agency paper firmed up about two basis points to fetch a bid of 38 basis points over Treasurys, traders said. 

 But activity in other maturities was quiet in the wake of the Fed's announcement, traders said. 

 Spreads for three-year agencies didn't budge, and one trader said the Fed's easing had already been priced into that sector. 

 "While they typically trade on top of swap spreads, three year (bullets) had been moving separately in recent sessions and had already pretty much priced that in," said the trader. 

 Before the Fed's announcement, agency bullets had tightened two to three basis points across the curve in anticipation of the Fed decision. That tightening erased the widening drift seen late Monday on a lack of activity. 

 (MORE) Dow Jones Newswires  11-17-98 

 1625EST 
   RF4122   COfednat : Fannie Mae   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | e21 : Government Finance | e212 : Government Borrowing | ecat : Economic News | m11 : Equity Markets | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States | usdc : Washington DC | use : Northeast U.S. | uss : Southern U.S.   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument cm00000020010916dubh02ntq  



 HD U.S. Agencies: Short-End Of Curve Tightens After FOMC    WC281 words   PD17 November 1998   ET21:34   SNCapital Markets Report   SCCM   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 1998, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP NEW YORK (Dow Jones)--The short end of the U.S. agency yield curve tightened moderately Tuesday afternoon in response to the Federal Reserve's decision to ease key short-term interest rates. 

 Agency debt traders attributed the firming to narrowing swap spreads at the front of the curve, the typical bullish reaction to an interest-rate cut. Yield spreads for longer agency issues were essentially unchanged from their levels before the Fed made the announcement. 
   TD On Tuesday afternoon the policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee announced 25 basis point cuts in the federal-funds and discount rates. 

 As shorter swap tenors narrowed in response, spreads on two-year agency bullets firmed up about two basis points to a level of 38 basis points over Treasurys, traders said. 

 Spreads for three-year agencies didn't budge, however. One trader said the Fed's easing had already been priced into that sector. 

 "While they typically trade on top of swap spreads, three year (bullets) had been moving separately in recent sessions and had already pretty much priced that in," said the trader. 

 Before the Fed's announcement, agency bullets had tightened two to three basis points across the curve in anticipation of the Fed decision. That tightening erased the widening drift seen late Monday on a lack of activity. 


After the Fed easing, Fannie Mae's 10-year Benchmark Notes maturing
May 2008 were quoted at 55.5 basis points over Treasurys, roughly in
line with their levels late Friday.
-By Ross A. Snel; 201 938-2086; ross.snel@cor.dowjones.com



(END) Dow Jones Newswires  11-17-98



1534EST

   RF4122   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | e21 : Government Finance | e212 : Government Borrowing | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument cm00000020010916dubh02ns7  



 HD =Fed Rate Cut Seen Safe In Current Economic Environment    WC412 words   PD17 November 1998   ET20:22   SNCapital Markets Report   SCCM   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 1998, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP By Henry J. Pulizzi 

 WASHINGTON (Dow Jones)--The Federal Reserve Tuesday acted to temper the prospects of a slowdown in U.S. economic conditions, lowering the Federal Funds rate 25 basis points to 4.75% and the discount rate 25 basis points to 4.50%. 
   TD The move, widely expected by analysts and financial markets, follows a similar rate cut at the last meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee in late September and a surprise inter-meeting easing on Oct. 15. 

 A recent tightening in lending standards, continued turmoil in international markets and signs the domestic economy may be cooling from above-trend growth had raised expectations for a rate reduction, despite stronger-than-anticipated readings on October retail sales and third quarter gross domestic product. 

 In its announcement the FOMC said, "Although conditions in financial markets have settled down materially since mid-October, unusual strains remain." 

 The Fed Funds rate is the rate charged by commercial banks for overnight loans to one another. The discount rate is the rate charged by the Fed for loans to commercial banks. 

 Some analysts see a rate cut as a good insurance policy at a time of unclear and quickly changing economic conditions. Economists also said the present low-inflation environment gave the Fed added room to ease. 

 "If you're going to make a mistake at this point, better to ease when it's not necessary," said Dana Saporta, an economist with Stone & McCarthy Research Associates. 

 But the future course of Fed policy is uncertain. In its statement, the FOMC said, "With the 75 basis point decline in the federal funds rate since September, financial conditions can reasonably be expected to be consistent with fostering sustained economic expansions while keeping inflationary pressures subdued." 

 Some aren't ruling out more easing by the Fed, however. "I think the odds of another 25 basis-point cut before year-end are 50-50," said economist Bill Sharp of Chase Securities. 

 Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan "probably still feels he needs insurance," said Robert Brusca, chief economist at Nikko Securities in New York. 

 Barring another surprise, inter-meeting move, the Fed's next chance to alter monetary policy will come on Dec. 22, when the FOMC next gets together. 

 The most recent move by the FOMC follows interest rate drops by the Bank of England and other European central banks. 

 (MORE) Dow Jones Newswires  11-17-98 

 1422EST 
   RF4214   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REasiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia | easiaz : Eastern Asia | eurz : Europe | gfr : Germany | jap : Japan | namz : North America | nz : New Zealand | uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | weurz : Western Europe   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument cm00000020010916dubh02npc  



 HD N.Y. Stocks: Blue Chips Sag Ahead Of Fed Meeting    WC678 words   PD17 November 1998   ET18:33   SNCapital Markets Report   SCCM   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 1998, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP
   Wall Street Journal Interactive Edition Roundup



NEW YORK (Dow Jones)--Blue-chip stocks slipped slightly Tuesday as
investors seemed unwilling to take positions ahead of the Federal
Reserve policy meeting.

   TD The Dow Jones Industrial Average was down 42 points to 8969 in midday trading. The industrials jumped 91.66, or 1%, a day earlier. As of the close of trading Monday, the blue-chip average was up 14% for the year and down just 3.5% from its July 17 record of 9337.97. 

 Dow component Hewlett-Packard led the decline, despite reporting fiscal fourth-quarter earnings that beat Wall Street expectations. 

 Its shares skidded 6 3/16 to 59 15/16 amid concerns about the computer giant's cautious forecast for 1999. 

 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index slipped 3.40 to 1 132.50 and the New York Stock Exchange Composite Index dropped 2.0 to 558.30. The technology-laden Nasdaq Composite Index shed 13.20 to 1848.50. Declining issues outpaced advancers 1,802 to 926 on the Big Board, as volume reached 259 million shares. 

 Trading was light as investors remained plagued by uncertainty about whether Fed policy makers will actually cut rates. A Fed announcement is expected at about 2:15 p.m. EST. 

 Analysts expect Wall Street will succumb to profit-taking pressure even if the Fed votes to lower its federal-funds target rate - the interest rate banks charge each other for overnight loans - by a quarter percentage point, as many economists expect. With the Dow industrials up more than 1600 points, or roughly 18%, in just over six weeks, largely on expectations of lower rates, a bit of profit-taking is expected by some observers. 

 High-flying Internet stocks were among the first to be grounded as investors moved to secure gains. EarthWeb and theglobe.com, which both skyrocketed last week in the wake of their initial public offerings, led the sector's decline. EarthWeb skidded 8 15/16 to 53 5/16, while theglobe.com dropped 8 5/16 to 40 7/16. 

 Humana lost 1 3/16 to 19 5/16 after it announced that it is resuming its hunt for acquisitions, three months after a deal to be acquired by United HealthCare fell apart. The Louisville, Ky., managed-care company said it is in talks to acquire the struggling health-care division of Prudential Insurance Co. of America, based in Newark, N.J., for around $1 billion. A deal would create the largest managed-care company based on revenue. 

 Pitney Bowes rose 15/16 to 54. Salomon Smith Barney upgraded its investment rating on the Stamford, Conn., business-equipment company to "buy" from "outperform." 

 Staples gained 9/16 to 34 15/16 after the office-superstore retailer said it is starting sales on the Internet. Staples said it has bought banner advertising space on the Yahoo! site that is designed to show the Staples na me whenever someone asks for small-business sites or shops for certain keywords, such as pencil. 

 Rite Aid slipped 1 3/8 to 43 1/16. The Camp Hill, Pa., company plans to acquire the pharmacy-benefits business of Eli Lilly for $1.5 billion, a transaction that would end the big drug maker's troubled foray into the benefits-management business. Shares of Eli Lilly, Indianapolis, edged down 3/16 to 83 5/8. 

 American Bankers Insurance Group slipped 1 to 44 3/8 after it agreed to pay $17 million to se ttle federal class action litigation associated with its nonfiling insurance product. The Miami-based specialty-insurance holding company said the settlement reduced earnings for the latest third quarter and nine-month period by $11 million. As a result of this adjustment, net income for the latest third quarter has been reduced to $16.3 million or 34 cents a basic share, from a previously reported $27.3 million, or 60 cents a basic share. 

 (END) Dow Jones Newswires  11-17-98 

 1233EST 
   RF20716 4116 5042   NSccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m11 : Equity Markets | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia | namz : North America | nz : New Zealand | usa : United States   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument cm00000020010916dubh02njw  



 HD U.S. Debt Futures Creeping Up Ahead Of FOMC Meeting    WC528 words   PD17 November 1998   ET16:48   SNCapital Markets Report   SCCM   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 1998, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP CHICAGO (Dow Jones)--Interest rate futures are trading higher early Tuesday ahead of the key Federal Open Market Committee meeting. 

 But traders said volume remains low as the market awaits word on interest rates. The December bond contract is up about 1/3 of a point and is gradually grinding higher as the morning progresses. 
   TD "The market has been surprisingly quiet," said a Eurodollar futures trader. 

 "It's trading like people want to be long and aren't long yet," said Brian Barrett, vice-president and technical analyst at Nomura Securities. 

 He said some of the upward pressure is coming from participants who were short after the Treasury's refunding a couple of weeks ago and have not been able to get out. 

 Barrett, and some others, believe the long end of the Treasury curve could weaken if the Federal Reserve cuts interest rates by the expected 25 basis points. He said not only is a cut priced into the market - leading to the frequent buying ahead of the news and selling on fact - but that there could be world-wide demand for capital fostered on the belief the Fed is on a mission to revive the global economy. Such a recovery would put upward pressure on interest rates. 

 Barrett also said Treasury futures could be hit if the market perceives the Fed is lowering rates to keep the U.S. dollar from strengthening. Should the Fed cut rates, he sees support for the December contract coming in around 126-16/20. 

 On the other hand, if the Fed keeps rates steady - and there are significant numbers of participants in this camp - then the Treasury contract could rise to resistance at 128-24. 

 In the Eurodollar pit, traders said there's been generally light buying. One trader, however, said there has been some heavy spread buying in the December contract against selling March Eurodollars. Salomon Brothers has done up to 5,000 of those trades, while First Options of Chicago has bought about 5,000 December contracts and sold December 1999 Eurodollars. The December contract is up 5.5 basis points at 94.8425. 

 The trader said some players are short the near-term contract, and are just covering what has lately been a profitable trade. 

 The FOMC meeting is expected to end about 2:00 p.m. EST. 

 With the policy meeting looming large, Barrett said the market paid little attention to the morning release of the consumer price index for October. It showed a gain of 0.2% in both the overall and core readings. Expectations were for a 0.3% gain in the headline number and 0.2% for the core. 


"It's pretty close to expectations," said Barrett.
Dec Federal Funds             95.16       Up 2.0 Bp
Mar 1999 Eurodollars          95.245      Up 5.0 Bp
Dec 10-Years                  118-24      Up 7/32
Dec T-Bonds                   127-16      Up 6/32
Mar 99 to Mar 00 Euro Spread -9.5% Vs -9.0%
   Michael McHugh (312)750-4142



michael.mchugh@cor.dowjones.com



(END) Dow Jones Newswires  11-17-98



1048EST

   RF4101   COnomsec : Nomura Holdings Inc   INiinv : Investing/Securities   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m11 : Equity Markets | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m15 : Derivative Securities | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REasiaz : Asia | easiaz : Eastern Asia | jap : Japan | namz : North America | usa : United States   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument cm00000020010916dubh02nd2  



 HD U.S. Swaps: Spreads Mixed Ahead Of Fed, New-Issue Business    WC396 words   PD16 November 1998   ET23:06   SNCapital Markets Report   SCCM   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 1998, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP NEW YORK (Dow Jones)--Swap spreads ended mixed Monday ahead of a growing corporate bond calendar that includes a number of deals considered swap candidates. 

 The short end of the swaps curve moved in by one to two basis points while the intermediate portion of the curve ended marginally wider. 
   TD Most of the swap-related new issues are being targeted for the middle of the swaps curve, specifically the five-year area. 

 Merrill Lynch & Co. is preparing a $1 billion issue divided between six- and 20-year tranches. At least the shorter maturity is a prime swap candidate, traders said. Merrill declined comment. 

 Out of Europe, German investment bank Suedwestdeutsche Landesbank Capital Markets PLC and Dutch bank Rabobank are readying five-year issues of $500 million and $250 million, respectively. 

 Rumors also surfaced of a $1 billion five-year offering from the International Finance Corp., although an official at the borrower said nothing has yet been decided upon. 

 All three would likely be swapped. 

 Ahead of the new-issue-related business, five-year swap spreads eased to 75 basis points from 75.5 basis points. 

 Seven- and 10-year swap spreads each firmed to 76 basis points from mids of 75.75 basis points. 

 On the short end of the curve, two-year swap spreads tightened on the back of a contraction in the Treasury-eurodollar spread. The two-year swap spreads compressed to 52.25 basis points from 54.25 basis points. 

 Three-year swap spreads closed at 62 basis points, down from 63 basis points. 

 Traders are now looking ahead to Tuesday's Federal Reserve policy meeting, where players are divided about the prospects for an interest rate cut. 

 "If they don't ease, spreads may widen out," said Shrikant Ramamurthy, senior vice president in fixed-income research at Prudential Securities. "Arguably, everything has come in very quickly." 

 He noted the current breather in swap spreads is expected following a tumultuous ride since late August. 

 One trader expects swaps activity to be muted going forward as many dealers prepare to close their books for the year. 


"Investment banks are sitting on their hands and trying not to lose
money," he said.
-By Jeff French; 201 938-2010; jeff.french@cor.dowjones.com



(END) Dow Jones Newswires  11-16-98



1706EST

   RF4275   COmerly : Merrill Lynch & Co Inc   INi814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | iinv : Investing/Securities   NSc17 : Funding/Capital | c172 : Corporate Debt Instruments | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | e21 : Government Finance | e212 : Government Borrowing | ecat : Economic News | m11 : Equity Markets | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m15 : Derivative Securities | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REbenluxz : Benelux Countries | eurz : Europe | gfr : Germany | namz : North America | neth : Netherlands | usa : United States | use : Northeast U.S. | usny : New York | weurz : Western Europe   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument cm00000020010916dubg02mnq  



 HD U.S. Debt Futures End Down, Square Positions Ahead Of FOMC    WC313 words   PD16 November 1998   ET21:29   SNCapital Markets Report   SCCM   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 1998, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP CHICAGO (Dow Jones)--Interest rate futures ended down Monday in low volume ahead of Tuesday's policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee meeting. 

 The December contract dropped late in the session to close about 1/2-point down at 127-09. 
   TD Traders said some late-day position squaring ahead of the key meeting Tuesday was the cause of the drop. Otherwise, the market had stayed just slightly below water for most of the session. 

 "There just hasn't been a whole lot of interest here," said one trader at the Chicago Board of Trade. 

 Traders said the market appears split over whether the Federal Reserve will cut rates or not. 

 "I think the bonds will be fairly immune," said one trader, regardless of what the Federal Reserve does. 

 He and others, however, believe the front end of the yield curve would be harder hit, as some see the price of Eurodollar futures backing up if the Fed keeps rates steady. 


But the trader said he expects the Fed to cut another 25 basis points
off the federal Funds rate, believing that Fed chairman Alan Greenspan
had a specific amount of easing in mind when he started a couple of
months ago - and that includes another 1/4-point cut. He said the
calmness that has fallen over global markets may be nothing but a
temporary hiatus from some of the turmoil the world has seen.
Dec Federal Funds             95.14       Up 1.0 Bp
Mar 1999 Eurodollars          95.190      Up 0.5 Bp
Dec 10-Years                  118-17      Dn 5/32
Dec T-Bonds                   127-10      Dn 14/32
Mar 99 to Mar 00 Euro Spread -9.0% Vs -7.5%
   -By Michael McHugh (312)750-4142



michael.mchugh@cor.dowjones.com



(END) Dow Jones Newswires  11-16-98



1529EST

   RF4101   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m15 : Derivative Securities | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument cm00000020010916dubg02mio  
 Page 1 of 1      2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.


 

 Page 1      2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.

