 
HD Interest Rate  Cut Means Lower Fees on Some Consumer Loans    BY Amy Feldman    WC369 words   PD1 October 1998   ET01:31   SNKRTBN Knight-Ridder Tribune Business News: New York Daily News   SCKRTBN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright (C) 1998 KRTBN Knight Ridder Tribune Business News; Source: World Reporter (TM)
   LP Sep. 30--American consumers won't see huge changes in their biggest borrowing costs because of the Federal Reserve's move yesterday to cut interest rates -- but fees on some consumer loans will inch lower. 

 "I would not expect this to have much impact on consumers," said Lyle Gramley, an economic consultant to the Mortgage Bankers Association of American and former Federal Reserve governor. 
   TD That's because it takes a long time for the Fed's cut in the rate that banks charge to other banks to trickle down to the consumer level. 

 Many key rates, such as those for home mortgages, are already at historic lows. 

 The rates that would be most affected by yesterday's adjustment by the Fed are those tied to the prime rate, such as home equity loans or some discount credit cards. 

 "It'll make it easier to borrow on a credit card or home-equity loan," said Mark Zandi, an economist at Regional Financial Associates. 

 "It will make it easier and cheaper to purchase things, and will reduce consumers' debt burden," Zandi said. 

 Mortgages, however, are unlikely to move. 

 Even before the Fed's rate cut, mortgage rates were at a historic, three-decade low -- a level that has prompted homeowners to refinance their loans in droves. 

 Because those rates have moved down so precipitously already --with rates in the New York area well below 7 percent for many purchasers -- analysts said they are unlikely to fall much further in the wake of the Fed's adjustment. 

 As for credit card rates -- which can run up to a whopping 18 percent or more -- the Fed's policy changes may not have immediate impact -- except for those cards specifically tied to the prime rate. 

 But while rates on some credit cards are exorbitant, better deals are available for those consumers willing to shop around. 

 Finally, analysts warned, there may be a cloud for consumers in the lower borrowing costs. 

 For investors in bonds or those with money socked away in savings accounts, the already-skimpy returns could dwindle even further. 

 -- 

 Visit the New York Daily News at http://www.nydailynews.com
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPC9311   IPDInterest Rates | United States of America, Americas~US | Americas | North America | Pacific Rim | Finance Taxation&Monetary Policy   ANDocument krtbn00020010917du9u010m5  

HD Federal Reserve  Cuts Quarter Point from  Interest Rate    BY Amy Feldman    WC367 words   PD30 September 1998   ET09:03   SNKRTBN Knight-Ridder Tribune Business News: New York Daily News   SCKRTBN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright (C) 1998 KRTBN Knight Ridder Tribune Business News; Source: World Reporter (TM)
   LP Sep. 30--The Fed chopped one-quarter of a percentage point off interest rates yesterday -- the first rate cut in nearly three years -- in an effort to contain the fallout from the global financial crisis on American businesses and consumers. 

 With the change, the Fed -- led by chairman Alan Greenspan, cut the rate at which banks borrow from other banks and that determines most other short-term rates in the economy -- to 5.25 percent from 5.5 percent. 
   TD Christine Callies, Credit Suisse First Boston's investment strategist, told clients the cut would be "an effective psychological boost." 

 The Business Roundtable and other groups that had been pushing for rate cuts applauded the action while urging more rate cuts down the road. 

 "Given one-third of the world is in recession, lower rates are essential," said Jerry Jasinowski, National Association of Manufacturers president. 

 In a surprisingly lengthy statement -- for the Fed -- the central bank said it cut interest rates "to cushion the effects on prospective economic growth in the United States of increasing weakness in foreign economies, and of less accommodative financial conditions domestically." 

 In other words, Greenspan and his colleagues hope to stop the global turmoil from throwing the U.S. economy into a tailspin. 

 The rate change -- the first since March 1997 and the first reduction since January 1996 -- had been widely expected. 

 But investors appeared disappointed the cut was limited to just one-quarter of a percentage point, rather than a more aggressive slashing of half a percentage point, as some had predicted. 

 Fresh evidence of the need for lower rates came yesterday from a sobering report on American consumer confidence. 

 The report showed that confidence in the economy was down for the third consecutive month -- to its lowest level in 11 months. 

 Analysts said the next question for the markets and the economy is whether the Fed will cut rates again in the coming months. 

 Some on Wall Street suggested yesterday's rate cut could be the beginning of a series of reductions. 

 The next Fed meeting is set for Nov. 17. 

 -- 

 Visit the New York Daily News at http://www.nydailynews.com
   INi814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPC6019 | 6011   IPDInterest Rates | United States of America, Americas~US | Americas | North America | Pacific Rim | Central Reserve Depository NEC, Federal Reserve Banks   ANDocument krtbn00020010917du9u010lb  

HD Rate Cut Will Make Short-Term Consumer, Business Loans Cheaper    BY Greg Groeller    WC582 words   PD30 September 1998   SNKRTBN Knight-Ridder Tribune Business News: The Columbus (Ga.) Ledger-Enquirer   SCKRTBN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright (C) 1998 KRTBN Knight Ridder Tribune Business News; Source: World Reporter (TM)
   LP Sep. 30--A cut in interest rates by the Federal Reserve on Tuesday isn't likely to fatten wallets. But it should mean slightly cheaper short-term loans for consumers and businesses. 

 Bank regulators cut the federal funds rate -- the rate at which banks lend money to each other -- to 5.25 percent from 5.5 percent. Banks are expected to follow by lowering lending rates on short-term loans to consumers. 
   TD As a result, car loans, home equity loans and short-term business loans should be cheaper. Interest rates on some credit cards should also fall. 

 However, home mortgage rates, which are already near historic lows, aren't likely to budge. 

 Tuesday's rate cut was designed to counter the effects on the U.S. economy by slumping economies in Asia. 

 "It's sort of like a flu shot," said Mark Vitner, an economist at First Union in Charlotte, N.C. "We're trying to prevent the Asian flu in the United States." 

 Don Ratajczak, an economist at Georgia State University, said the cut is probably too small to be a financial windfall for consumers. However, the cut should provide a psychological boost to financial markets and consumers, Ratajczak said. 

 "This is not something that will dramatically alter your monthly payments," he said. "It's a psychological move to show that the fed stands ready to act again if the economy falters." 

 Recent government data shows that consumers are beginning to worry about the health of U.S. economy. The index of consumer confidence fell 7.1 points to 126 in September from 133.1 in August, according to a monthly government survey released on Tuesday. It was the biggest monthly drop since January. 

 A downside to Tuesday's rate cut will be that people who put money in accounts with steady interest payouts will get smaller returns on their investments. Those accounts include checking, savings and money market accounts as well as certificate of deposits. 

 That could push people to invest in the stock market, which historically has benefited from interest rate cuts. 

 "It's a personal decision," said Bill Nigh, senior vice president at Columbus Bank and Trust. "The good news about CDs and money markets is that they're stable. In the stock market you are taking a risk." 

 The Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 28.32 to 8080.52 on Tuesday. Analysts said the index has crept up in recent days in anticipation of the rate cut. 

 "It's a classic buy-on-the-rumor, sell-on-the-news situation," Vitner said. 

 In the long-term, the stock market should benefit from the cut, Vitner said. 

 Businesses should also benefit because they'll be able to borrow money at cheaper rates, said Frank Etheridge, president of SunTrust Bank, West Georgia. 

 "The fed has to think more globally than it used to," Etheridge said. "What happens in this case is the cost of borrowing will go down and allow U.S. businesses to compete on a global scale." 

 Economists expect the Federal Reserve to cut interest rates several more times before the end of the year. That should hold off a recession for the next year or so, but not forever. 

 "I'm one of those that believes that economic history repeats itself," said Mike Daniels, an economist at Columbus State University. "We know one (a recession) will come. It's just a matter of when." 
   INi814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPC6019   IPDInterest Rates | United States of America, Americas~US | Americas | North America | Pacific Rim | Central Reserve Depository NEC   ANDocument krtbn00020010917du9u010hm  

HD Fed Cuts Rate to 'Cushion' U.S. Economy    BY Aaron Zitner    WC1,254 words   PD30 September 1998   SNKRTBN Knight-Ridder Tribune Business News: The Boston Globe   SCKRTBN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright (C) 1998 KRTBN Knight Ridder Tribune Business News; Source: World Reporter (TM)
   LP Sep. 30--WASHINGTON--The Federal Reserve yesterday lowered a key interest rate for the first time in nearly three years, pumping a modest amount of fuel into a US economy that is already feeling the drag of the global economic slowdown. 

 The US economy remains healthy and growing, with inflation and unemployment well in check. Still, recent events such as the stock market sell-off and the 4,700 job cuts that Gillette Co. announced Monday have their roots overseas. 
   TD The Fed, in a brief explanation of its rate cut, said it needed to "cushion" the effects of weak economies abroad on future US economic growth. 

 "There is no case for a rate cut for the current US economy," said Allen Sinai, chief global economist with Primark Decision Economics of Boston. "But our central bank cannot take the chance -- it is just too risky -- that the US economy will fall apart. This was a preemptive move in a situation where world risks loom very large." 

 Fed policy makers voted to cut the target for the federal funds rate by a quarter point, to 5.25 percent. It was the first reduction since January 1996 in the key interest rate, which banks charge one another for overnight loans. 

 The Fed controls the federal funds rate by trading government securities with banks. It left unchanged, at 5 percent, the more symbolic discount rate. 

 Normally, a cut in short-term rates by the Fed prompts lenders to lower a variety of other interest rates, which reduces the cost of home mortgages, credit card debt, and other loans. However, some analysts said, the effect this time would be muted, because US interest rates are already low. 

 Investors have withdrawn money from investments they consider risky, such as foreign stocks, and invested it in US government bonds, which are seen as safer. This has made more money available to US borrowers and cut the cost of borrowing. Mortgages are at a 30-year low, and rates on government securities, from three-month Treasury bills to 30-year Treasury bonds, are below the federal funds rate that the Fed controls. They are unlikely to fall further, some analysts said. 

 However, they said, the Fed move might prompt banks to cut the prime rate, which would lower interest rates on loans that are tied to the prime, most notably home-equity loans. The Fed rate cut could also make it easier for businesses to obtain working capital. 

 If that occurs, businesses and consumers would be able to borrow money cheaply to buy and produce goods, which in turn would keep businesses working and people employed. 

 Financial markets expected a rate cut of between one-quarter and one-half point, and they gave a mixed response to the Fed's announcement. The Dow Jones industrial average initially fell more than 100 points but rebounded to close at 8082.58, down 26.26, or 0.3 percent. The Standard & Poor's 500 index rose a scant 0.03 percent and the Nasdaq Composite index fell 0.4 percent. The yield on the benchmark 30-year Treasury bond declined to 5.09 percent from 5.14 percent on Monday. 

 The Fed move was not universally applauded, as some analysts said the US economy was too strong to merit a rate cut. With unemployment low and consumer spending high, there is little sign of an economic slowdown, said Allan Meltzer, an economist at Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh, who heads a Fed-watching group called the Shadow Open Market Committee. 

 Analysts were split on whether Fed policy makers would follow up with more rate cuts in their final two meetings of the year. 

 At Westfalia Investments, a New York brokerage, chief strategist Peter Cardillo said he "suspected" the Fed would cut rates by a quarter-point in both November and December. 

 "The simple reason is that there will be an erosion in consumer confidence, which will lead to less spending by consumers," he said. In fact, the Conference Board, which tracks consumer attitudes, yesterday said its index of consumer confidence fell to 126 in September from 133.1 in August. It was the first time the index fell for three straight months since 1994. Consumer spending drives two-thirds of US economic activity. 

 But Meltzer noted the Fed, in explaining its rate cut yesterday, said "a slightly lower federal funds rate should now be consistent with keeping inflation low and sustaining economic growth." With that language, he said, the Fed was suggesting that no more rate cuts are planned. 

 The statement also appeared to reinforce recent remarks by Fed chairman Alan Greenspan that his primary role is to manage the US economy -- not those of other nations. It said the Fed wanted to make sure that weakness overseas does not hurt the United States, but said nothing about improving conditions abroad. 

 As much of Asia has fallen into recession, including the powerhouse of Japan, many nations have looked to the United States to remain strong, buy foreign goods, and help pull the world out of its slowdown. But in testifying before a House committee earlier this month, Greenspan downplayed his role as a global leader. "Our essential mandate is to the economy of the United States of America," he said. 

 Greenspan also said at that hearing that he was not orchestrating a coordinated cut in interest rates by the world's industrialized nations, as some had speculated. Such a rate cut would likely spur economic activity not only in the industrialized nations but around the world. 

 Still, the Fed is likely giving great weight in its decision-making to conditions abroad, said Ralph Bryant, a senior fellow in economic studies at the Brookings Institution. 

 "Normally in a 1/8Fed policy-making 3/8 discussion, the foreign situation would get much less attention than the domestic situation, and most people would vote with no weight on it at all," he said. "But I'm guessing now it was probably enough to tip many members of the committee to lower the funds rate. Had it not been for such a turbulent international situation, chances are they would not have done so." 

 As recently as last summer, Greenspan had marvel ed publicly that US economic performance was at its strongest in his 50 years as an analyst. But in recent weeks he has changed his tone, saying the Fed's traditional concern -- the need to fight inflation -- had been replaced by new fears that the US economy would slow or contract because of problems abroad. The United States could not remain an oasis of prosperity amid the turmoil overseas, he said. 

 Investors took his words as a sign that a rate cut was in the works, and that feeling was reinforced by several troubling events. 

 Russia defaulted on its debt. Brazil faced new economic problems that led to negotiations for rescue loans from the International Monetary Fund. And in the United States, a hedge fund called Long-Term Capital Management LP ran up losses so large that the Fed itself helped coordinate a bailout, amid fears the fund's collapse would weaken other US financial institutions. 

 "The awkward truth is that nobody knows -- not even members of the 1/8Fed 3/8 committee -- whether this rate cut will seem like the right thing to have done, with the wisdom of hindsight," said Bryant. "The uncertainties are very great in the world financial markets and the world economy." 
   INi814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPC9311 | 6019   IPDInterest Rates | United States of America, Americas~US | Americas | North America | Pacific Rim | Washington | Finance Taxation&Monetary Policy, Central Reserve Depository NEC   ANDocument krtbn00020010917du9u010fx  

HD Federal Reserve  Board Cuts  Interest Rate    BY Susan Tompor    WC862 words   PD30 September 1998   SNKRTBN Knight-Ridder Tribune Business News: Detroit Free Press   SCKRTBN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright (C) 1998 KRTBN Knight Ridder Tribune Business News; Source: World Reporter (TM)
   LP Sep. 30--Call it the rate cut heard around the world. 

 The Federal Reserve, aiming to prevent a global financial meltdown and restore investor confidence, cut short-term interest rates by a quarter of a percentage point on Tuesday. 
   TD By lowering the rate banks charge each other for overnight loans --an action that affects most other interest rates -- the nation's central bank hopes to spur consumer and business spending to keep the U.S. economy growing. 

 It is the first time that the nation's central bank has reduced interest rates since Feb. 1, 1996. 

 The cut in the funds rate-- to 5.25 percent -- reflects the Fed's concern with the threat of recession. For the last several years, the Fed's main worry has been inflation, not recession. The last time the Fed budged was to raise rates in March 1997. As recently as in July of this year, the Fed had been hinting at a rate hike. 

 All that changed, though, as economies in Asia and Latin America began unraveling and threatening the U.S. economy. 

 "What started as the Asian flu has become an emerging-market flu and now threatens to become pandemic, a worldwide outbreak," said William Wilson, economist for Comerica Inc. 

 Lower interest rates in the United States will make U.S. investments less attractive, thereby encouraging foreign investors to keep their money at home. That would help ailing Asian and Latin American countries. 

 At home, the rate cut may come just in time to give new life to an economic party that has been going strong for nearly eight years. The Conference Board, a private research firm in New York, reported Tuesday that its consumer-confidence index fell in September to its lowest level since October 1997. 

 The rate cut, however small, is likely to add zip to all types of borrowing, from credit cards to auto loans, from small-business loans to home-equity lines of credit. Some of the effects: Credit-card rates will fall -- just in time for holiday shopping. 

 Consumers who already owe $438 billion on their bank-issued credit cards -- not counting department store cards -- could save up to $1 billion in interest next year, estimated Robert McKinley, president of CardWeb Inc., a credit-card tracking firm in Gettysburg, Pa. 

 Big number, collectively. 

 Peanuts, personally. 

 For the average household that has more than $5,000 in debt on its credit cards, the rate cut will add up to a savings of about $12 a year, McKinley said. 

 A buck a month, possibly as soon as the November statements. 

 "It's not even enough to rent a video," McKinley said. 

 And some consumers might not see any savings. If all of your debt is on a fixed-rate card, such as many department store cards, your charge card rate won't drop automatically. 

 Home-equity loans are sweeter. 

 Many home-equity loans are pegged directly to the prime rate, which is expected to drop as a result of the Fed's action. Consider a consumer who owes $15,000 on a home-equity loan and is making even payments each month to pay off the loan in five years. That home-equity loan, if 9.5 percent (one percentage point over the prime rate), now costs $315.03 each month. 

 But, because of the Fed's action Tuesday, the consumer will save $2 a month as the prime drops from 8.5 percent to 8.25 percent, according to Sara Campbell, senior vice president for Bank Rate Monitor in North Palm Beach, Fla. 

 Mortgage rates may dip. 

 Home owners are already enjoying rock-bottom mortgage rates. The average rate for a 30-year fixed mortgage was 6.38 percent as of last week at metro Detroit lenders, according to Residential Mortgage Consultants Inc. 

 That's down from 6.9 percent in the first days of January. (That's based on a loan with 1.75 points, which are fees paid to the lender at the time of closing. One point equals 1 percent of the mortgage amount.) 

 "It's certainly a great time to be borrowing money," said Vince Carducci, director of marketing for Standard Federal Bank in Troy. 

 Just how far mortgage rates might fall from here, though, is debatable. More than likely, consumers won't see mortgage rates drop by a quarter of a percentage point any time soon. 

 David Bird, president of the Mortgage Bankers Association, said he doubts that mortgage rates will fall much further as a result of Tuesday's rate cut. 

 "What really is going to make a difference in the long run is whether inflation remains low," Bird said. 

 Make no mistake, economists said, the U.S. economy is strong. And inflation remains a threat. The U.S. jobless rate, after all, is just 4.5 percent. And wages, particularly in service industries, have been climbing. 

 "This is a Fed that was ready to pull the trigger and tighten just a few months ago," said Diane Swonk, deputy chief economist for First Chicago NBD. 

 But "these are extraordinary times that require extraordinary actions," she said. 
   INi814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPC6019 | 6011   IPDInterest Rates | United States of America, Americas~US | Americas | North America | Pacific Rim | Central Reserve Depository NEC, Federal Reserve Banks   ANDocument krtbn00020010917du9u010ck  

HD Federal Reserve  Board Drops Lending Rate by Quarter Point    BY Merrill Goozner    WC1,197 words   PD30 September 1998   SNKRTBN Knight-Ridder Tribune Business News: Chicago Tribune   SCKRTBN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright (C) 1998 KRTBN Knight Ridder Tribune Business News; Source: World Reporter (TM)
   LP Sep. 30--WASHINGTON--Seeking to restore investor confidence in overseas markets and ward off a credit crunch at home, the Federal Reserve Board voted Tuesday its first interest rate cut in nearly three years. 

 But the quarter-point reduction to 5.25 percent in its benchmark interbank lending rate, known as the federal funds rate, fell short of many analysts' expectations and triggered immediate speculation the move was the just the first of several interest rate cuts that will take place over the next several months. 
   TD The decision by Federal Reserve Board Chairman Alan Greenspan and the 10 other members of the rate-setting Federal Open Market Committee to cut interest rates marks an unusually rapid turnaround in thinking among the nation's monetary authorities. 

 In the spring, the Federal Reserve Board seemed convinced that inflation was the greatest danger facing the soaring U.S. economy. 

 But the Russian economic collapse last August, coming amid a stock market correction that sent the Dow Jones industrial average and other bellwether stock market indices plunging 19 percent or more from their mid-year highs, convinced Fed officials that they could no longer ignore the rolling, foreign financial crises and the threat they pose to U.S. prosperity. 

 "The action was taken to cushion the effects on prospective economic growth in the United States of increasing weakness in foreign economies and of less accommodative financial conditions domestically," said a Federal Reserve statement accompanying the rate cut. 

 Though its impact on the underlying U.S. economy will be slight, its psychological impact could be large, especially overseas. 

 It comes on the eve of two weeks of meetings in Washington between the finance ministers and central bank governors of the world's leading economies as well as the annual meetings of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank. 

 "It's a clear signal that the Fed isn't asleep at the switch like other policymakers around the world," said Merrill Lynch chief economist Bruce Steinberg. 

 On the question of future rate cuts, the Fed left itself plenty of wiggle room. 

 Tuesday's rate cut was not accompanied by a similar cut in the discount rate, which is the rate at which the Fed lends money to banks. A cut in the discount rate would have been a clear signal that further rate cuts were being contemplated. 

 "The fact they chose not to lower the discount rate means the debate must have been contentious," said Wayne Angell, chief economist at Bear Stearns & Co. and a Reagan-appointee to the Fed who served from 1986 to 1994. "This was the minimum move they could make given the public expectations that Alan Greenspan had created." 

 Investors were clearly disappointed. The Dow fell 28.32 points to 8,080.32. 

 The divisions on the Fed stem from the underlying strength of the U.S. economy. Unemployment stands at a quarter-century low of 4.5 percent and consumer spending is still strong. 

 "This was an appropriately cautious move," said Tim O'Neill, chief economist at Harris Bank/Bank of Montreal. "To move more aggressively would have suggested there's more to worry about than is actually the case." 

 On the other hand, economic weak spots that could be signaling the next recession have appeared in recent months. Profits at major U.S. corporations that depend on exports to Asian markets have fallen sharply, as have write-offs at financial institutions that made large loans to emerging markets. 

 Meanwhile, commodity prices are in a deep swoon. Farm income is expected to plunge by 20 percent this year after declining exports contributed to a collapse of basic farm commodity prices. 

 Weakness also has showed up in the manufacturing sector. Employment in goods producing industries, which are disproportionately represented in the Midwest, has fallen by more than 100,000 jobs in the past two months. 

 "The rate cut was long overdue and should have been much larger," said Thomas Palley, assistant director of public policy at the AFL-CIO. "Workers have just gotten back to the wage levels of 1989, and if the economy goes into recession now, they will be cheated out of their opportunity to benefit from this expansion." 

 These weak spots and the stock market correction have begun eroding consumer confidence. The Conference Board's monthly survey fell for the third straight month in September to its lowest level in almost a year. 

 At the onset of the Asian crisis in July 1997, most economic observers believed the buoyant U.S. economy would easily weather the crisis. President Clinton called it "a blip in the road." 

 But a year later, that blip has turned into a major roadblock that is threatening to bring seven-plus years of economic expansion to a halt. 

 "We have a global credit crunch that is beginning to hit our own markets," said Merrill Lynch's Steinberg, who predicts rates will fall to 4.5 percent by the middle of next year to cope with a sharp economic slowdown. 

 The U.S. financial system is clearly coming under severe strains that are not fully understood. Last week, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York helped arrange a private bailout of Long-Term Capital Management L.P., a hedge fund whose owners included two Nobel Prize winners. 

 In testimony last week, Greenspan indicated that many U.S. firms now are having trouble accessing credit markets, especially those with less than investment-grade credit ratings. That would mean that investors' lack of confidence in overseas markets was affecting their judgments at home, too. 

 While the Bank of Canada joined with the U.S. Tuesday in lowering its bank rate by a quarter-point to 5.75 percent, it's unlikely to trigger a change in policy in Germany, where the Social Democratic Party led by Gerhard Schroder won a major election victory Sunday. Though the new government will stress economic growth and lowering unemployment, it has little influence over the fiercely independent Bundesbank, which ruled out an interest cut earlier this month. The 11 members of the European Union are preoccupied with bringing their interest rates down to Germany's level to usher in the brand new European Monetary Unit next January. 

 With the Fed not set to meet again until Nov. 17, all eyes now turn to Brazil, which holds its presidential election Sunday. Brazil must roll over nearly $50 billion in loans by the end of the year. 

 President Fernando Henrique Cardoso, an economic reformer who is expected to win reelection handily, has pledged to come up with a program to eliminate Brazil's budget deficit after the election. Brazilian finance authorities also are pursuing a backup loan package from the U.S., the IMF and other international lending bodies, which could total $50 billion. The package may be announced at next week's IMF meeting. 

 "If Cardoso wins and we see a major fiscal reform package and an IMF program, there could be a big rally in Latin American markets," said David Hale, chief economist at Zurich Group. "That could go a long way to diffusing the crisis." 
   INi814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPC9311 | 6019   IPDInterest Rates | United States of America, Americas~US | Americas | North America | Pacific Rim | Washington | Finance Taxation&Monetary Policy, Central Reserve Depository NEC   ANDocument krtbn00020010917du9u010ab  



 HD Fed Cuts Short-Term Rates by 0.25 Point --- First Cut Since January '96 Is a Pre-Emptive Strike To Stave Off Recession    BY By Jacob M. Schlesinger and David Wessel    CRStaff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal   WC1,360 words   PD30 September 1998   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGA3   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 1998, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)
   LP WASHINGTON -- The Federal Reserve cut interest rates for the first time since January 1996 in a pre-emptive strike against recession that reflects a sudden reversal in the central bank's outlook for the economy and new worries about a credit crunch. 

 The Fed trimmed its key short-term interest rate by 1/4 percentage point to 5.25%, saying it sought to "cushion the effects on prospective growth in the United States of increasing weakness in foreign economies" and offset what it termed "less accommodative financial conditions domestically." 
   TD The Dow Jones Industrial Average dropped immediately following the Fed's announcement at about 2:15 p.m., and closed at 8080.52, down 28.32. But bond prices jumped; the benchmark 30-year Treasury bond rose 23/32, or $7.1875 for a bond with $1,000 face value. 

 The widely anticipated rate cut, already reflected in mortgage rates and other market-set rates, won't have much immediate effect on consumer-loan rates. But if commercial banks follow the Fed and cut their prime lending rates, that will mean lower interest charges on some credit-card loans and many home-equity loans. 

 Among some traders and other Fed watchers there was disappointment that the Fed didn't, as some expected, cut rates by 1/2 percentage point. The U.S. Chamber of Commerce, for instance, described the move as "underwhelming in its modesty." But a few months ago, a rate cut looked very unlikely. 

 Just last June, Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan declared the state of the U.S. economy to be "as impressive as any I have witnessed in my near half-century of daily observation of the American economy." With the unemployment rate at a low 4.5%, Mr. Greenspan's colleagues at the Fed were far more worried about an outbreak of inflation than about recession. The last time the Fed cut rates with unemployment this low was 30 years ago, and inflation took off soon thereafter. 

 What darkened Mr. Greenspan's crystal ball? Early signs of financial stress in the U.S., triggered largely by Russia's Aug. 17 default on its foreign debt and the resulting fear in financial markets of risky -- and even not-so-risky-loans and investments of all sorts. 

 Fed officials worry that the seeds of a potentially strangling credit crunch have been planted in an otherwise healthy American economy. Though there's scant evidence of a slowdown in growth, yesterday's move, perhaps the first of a series, was an attempt to kill the weed before it takes root. 

 As Mr. Greenspan put it last week, global financial turmoil has produced "a general pulling back for risk-taking," which is showing itself in lower stock prices, higher yields on bonds of riskier companies and hints that banks -- an important source of finance to companies too small for public offerings -- are growing more reluctant to lend. 

 In preparation for yesterday's meeting, the Fed conducted a special survey of senior bank lending officers; it hadn't planned such a survey until November. Results aren't yet public, but the survey apparently found some hints that bankers, too, were beginning to pull back. "Banks are also reportedly becoming more cautious and more-expensive lenders to companies," Mr. Greenspan said last week. 

 "Banks are examining their exposures more carefully," and aren't as "free-wheeling" as they were," says David Bozynski, treasurer of Federal-Mogul Corp. When the Southfield, Mich., auto-parts maker borrowed more than $1 billion earlier this month, it had to pay 2.25 percentage points above the benchmark widely used by banks. Earlier this year, Federal-Mogul was able to borrow at 2 points above the benchmark. 

 "I'm hearing from my members that financial institutions are beginning to tighten their lending standards," says Barry Rogstad, president of the American Business Conference, a group of midsized, fast-growing companies. 

 Fed fears that another rude shock to the financial system would produce even more reluctance to lend among bankers and bond buyers contributed to its decision last week to broker the $3.5-billion rescue of Long-Term Capital Management LP, the spectacularly leveraged hedge fund. 

 Because growth has slowed so much outside of the U.S., hurting U.S. exports, and because of signs of credit tightening here at home, Wall Street analysts are marking down their forecasts for economic growth next year, and Fed staff economists have done the same. 

 Morgan Guaranty Trust Co. projects that the U.S. economy, which grew at an eye-popping 3.6% adjusted for inflation over the past year, will grow only about 1% over the next 12 months. Goldman Sachs & Co. figures that stock and bond markets now put the odds of a recession in the next 12 months at a substantial 40%. 

 There are only few fresh indications that the economy may soon slow, and some analysts think that the Fed is making a mistake. After all, only a few months back, Mr. Greenspan was fretting about bankers being too lax. 

 "If the Fed eases now," says Roseanne Cahn, an economist with Credit Suisse First Boston Corp., "there's a risk that they will foster the next financial bubble, which is likely to be followed by a bigger crash later." 

 But such concerns were outweighed by the tightening of credit conditions, which could make it difficult for businesses to finance the investment boom that has sustained the economy for years. 

 Most obvious is that the stock market's appetite for initial public offerings of shares has almost dried up, the latest casualty being Goldman Sachs & Co.'s celebrated planned offering. 

 The end to the initial-public-offering boom "is forcing us to slow our expansion, and to cut expenses more," says Gene McGreven, chairman of PetNet Pharmaceutical Services LLC, a two-year-old, Norcross, Ga., maker of cancer diagnostics. "We would normally be making plans now to do an IPO six to nine months from now, but that would be a waste of time and effort," he says. 

 Bond-market borrowing also has been hurt in the past six weeks. In the last half of 1997 and the first half of 1998, riskier companies sold an average of $589 million in high-yield bonds per day; since the beginning of August, they've been selling only about $162 million per day, he says, according to Moody's Investors Services. And even though yields on Treasury bonds are down, the rate that the bond market demands from junk-bond issuers has jumped to 10.5%, the highest level since early 1995. 

 Bond issuance by blue-chip companies has also fallen, to $213 million per day from $714 million per day in the year ended July 31. And the spread -- the difference between the rates that the U.S. Treasury pays to borrow money and the rates that companies pay -- has widened, too, a measure that Mr. Greenspan and others at the Fed track closely as a gauge of credit conditions in the economy. 

 Ford Motor Co., which has a solid A rating, last week had to pay 1.45 percentage points above Treasurys to borrow $1.5 billion for 30 years. That's about a third more than the premium Ford probably would have paid earlier this year, says Moody's chief economist, John Lonski. "There appears to be an unusual and unwarranted risk aversion among lenders," he says. "That's what happens with a credit crunch: tight standards are applied quite often without regard to the underlying creditworthiness of the borrower." 

 Shortly after the Fed announcement, the Bank of Canada cut its short-term rates by 1/4 percentage point to 5.75%, prompting major Canadian banks to trim their prime lending rates by the same amount. The Canadian central bank raised the rate to 6% at the end of August in an effort to stabilize the sinking Canadian dollar. 
   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument j000000020010917du9u00q77  



 SENEWS   HDFED SHAVES  INTEREST RATE  TO CUSHION ECONOMY; MOVE SHOULD SAVE CONSUMERS A BIT     BYBy Jim Gallagher Of The Post-Dispatch     WC952 words   PD30 September 1998   SNSt. Louis Post-Dispatch   SCSLMO   EDEDITION: FIVE STAR LIFT   PGPAGE: A1   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 1998, St. Louis Post-Dispatch.  All Rights Reserved.  
   LPHoping to vaccinate America from the Asian financial contagion, the Federal Reserve shaved a quarter of a percentage point Tuesday from a key short-term interest rate.  

The move is likely to cause big banks to cut their prime lending rates soon, analysts said. That should save consumers a few dollars in interest on their credit-card and home-equity debt.  
   TDSavers, meanwhile, might expect slightly lower rates on their bank accounts and money-market funds.  

The Fed poured cash into the economy to cut the federal funds rate to 5.25 percent from 5.5 percent. The federal funds rate is what banks charge each other on overnight loans, and it influences other short-term lending rates.  

The Fed said it acted to cushion the United States from the effects of weakening economies abroad and tighter credit at home.  

"The recent changes in the global economy and adjustments in U.S. financial markets mean that a slightly lower federal funds rate should now be consistent with keeping inflation low and sustaining economic growth going forward," the Fed said in a statement.  

Analysts warned that such a slight rate cut would only partially protect Americans from the global financial crisis. "It's sort of like getting a flu shot that doesn't completely work. You still get the flu, but you don't feel as much pain," said economist Bruce Steinberg of Merrill Lynch.  

Lower rates encourage businesses and consumers to borrow and spend, boosting the economy. They could also lower the value of the U.S. dollar, helping American exports and making it easier for strapped Asian borrowers to repay dollar-denominated loans.  

It was the first change in the federal funds rate since March 1997, when the rate was raised to prevent the economy from overheating. It was the first rate cut since January 1996.  

On the stock market, the Dow Jones Industrial Average fell more than 100 points immediately after the announcement. It then climbed back to close down 28 at 8081.  

The market had been expecting a rate cut since Sept. 23, when Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan all but promised one and the Dow leaped 257 points.  

Some market players had been hoping for a half-point cut and were disappointed in the Fed's quarter-point move.  

The Fed action should soon cause major banks to lower the prime rate by a quarter of a percentage point to 8.25 percent, said Gary Thayer, chief economist at A.G. Edwards & Sons Inc.  

Rates on many credit cards and home-equity loans automatically fall with the prime. Someone with a $2,000 credit-card balance would save about $5 a year if the interest rate falls by a quarter of a point.  

Southwest Bank of St. Louis cut its prime rate Thursday from 8.5 percent to 8 percent. Southwest often leads the nation in cutting the prime.  

Keeping an eye on the ball  

By itself, a quarter-point cut in the federal funds rate should have only a small effect on the economy, analysts say. But they note that the Fed usually doesn't stop with a single move in rates.  

In 1995 and 1996, for instance, the Fed cut rates three times for a total of three-quarters of a percentage point.  

"Traditionally, the Fed has been conservative, easing into changes," said Mario DeRose, chief bond strategist at Edward Jones.  

DeRose expects the Fed to cut again, possibly bringing the federal funds rate to 4.5 percent or 5 percent next year.  

A drop to 4.5 percent would mean significantly lower rates on a wide variety of consumer and business loans.  

"This action is enough to signal that the Fed has its eye on the ball," DeRose said. "This pre-emptive strike should be enough to keep the U.S. economy strong."  

The Fed's action followed a two-month slump in the U.S. stock market, triggered in part by the spread of financial turmoil from Asia to Russia and Brazil.  

It comes days after a dramatic new indicator of instability in the U.S. financial system - the near-collapse of Long-Term Capital Management LP. That hedge fund's demise was averted when the Fed arranged a private $3.5 billion bailout by banks and brokerage houses.  

The bailout avoided a mass sell-off of assets that could have shocked the markets. It also left people wondering what other financial bombs may be waiting to explode among hedge funds, which often borrow heavily to invest abroad.  

In cutting rates only slightly, the Fed may have been aiming more to shore up financial markets than to protect U.S. economic growth, said Chris Varvares, an economist at Macroeconomic Advisers of Clayton.  

"A lot of what it really does is to increase confidence and improve psychology," he said.  

If that is the case, then further rate cuts are not necessarily on the way, he said. "There is not really a compelling case that the domestic economy is weakening," he said.  

****  

Who's helped by a rate cut?  

Consumers may pay less interest on credit cards and home-equity loans. Long-term mortgage rates already have fallen sharply and aren't directly affected by the Fed's action.  

Business also will find borrowing cheaper if banks reduce their prime rate, as they usually do when the federal funds rate falls.  

Foreigners will have an easier time buying U.S. goods and services. The value of the other dollar has fallen because lower interest rates make the United States less attractive as in investment haven.  
   INi814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | npag : Page-One Story | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPDLBIZ | REDUCTION | GOVERNMENT   PUBSt. Louis Post-Dispatch   ANDocument SLMO000020040608du9u00ams  



 SEBusiness   HDCanada, U.S. cut interest rates: Big banks follow suit and drop their prime rates by a quarter point     BYSandra Cordon Eric Beauchesne     CRThe Canadian Press; Southam News   WC1,099 words   PD30 September 1998   SNThe Hamilton Spectator   SCHMSP   EDFinal   PGB7 / FRONT   LAEnglish   CYCopyright (c) 1998 The Hamilton Spectator.  
   LPThe Canadian central bank's decision to lower rates by a quarter point came barely an hour after the U.S. Federal Reserve cut its benchmark rate by the same amount in an effort to gradually fight the global economic crisis with lower interest rates.  

Canada's biggest banks -- led by the Royal and Scotiabank -- quickly followed suit, lowering their prime rate by a quarter point to 7.25 per cent, cutting borrowing costs on consumer, auto and corporate loans and lines of credit.  
   TD"You may well see a quick impact (on consumers)," said Alister Smith, deputy chief economist at CIBC in Toronto.  

"Other interest rates will adjust quickly as well, and mortgages have already been coming down."  

Mortgage rates, which follow the fortunes of the bond market where the banks go to borrow, have been falling themselves lately -- three times in recent weeks.  

Yesterday's interest rate reduction was the first in almost two years by the Bank of Canada, which last lowered its trend-setting rate in late 1996 and has boosted rates by 2.75 points since the spring of 1997.  

The loonie, heartened by the prospect of lower U.S. rates, opened on a strong note at 66.41 cents US, up 0.21 cent from Monday's close. However, it slid a bit after the rate cut and ended the day down a fraction at 66.20 cent US.  

Both central banks will likely continue to gradually lower rates, good news for both the Canadian and U.S. economies as well as consumers, said Craig Wright, deputy chief economist of Royal Bank.  

"It's the start of a rate-easing cycle, rather than a blip, so I think more cuts are in the cards as we move ahead."  

The Bank of Canada is likely anxious to unwind its one per cent rate hike of last month, which was aimed solely at bolstering the weak loonie and not directed at any other economic malaise.  

Meanwhile, investors were disappointed the highly influential Fed cut its rate below the half-point decline many had anticipated.  

On Wall Street, the blue-chip Dow Jones industrial average pulled back slightly.  

The Dow, which was up 15 points as Fed officials concluded their latest strategy meeting at about 2 p.m., finished 28.32 points lower at 8,080.52  

On Bay Street, the TSE 300 composite index was battered by troubles in high-tech stocks and lost 107.18 points to close at 5,762.10.  

In Ottawa yesterday, Martin said commercial banks, which must share the blame for the Asian crisis, must be forced to share the pain of any future crisis, while central banks must tackle the existing and deepening crisis with lower interest rates.  

Martin was speaking on the eve of this year's Commonwealth Finance Ministers meeting.  

Investment firm Nesbitt Burns said the Bank of England will probably also cut interest rates, which would bode well for the success of next week's meeting of Group of Seven finance ministers.  

CALL-TO-ARMS SPEECH  

Martin delivered his six-point plan in a speech as his Commonwealth counterparts began arriving here for their three-day meeting.  

It's a broad, but urgent, call-to-arms that Martin will take to next week's gathering in Washington of G-7 finance ministers at the annual meeting of the International Monetary Fund and World Bank.  

It includes "an emergency standstill" provision that, when approved by the IMF, would prevent banks from calling in loans or investors from moving funds out of a country for a "cooling off period" after a country is hit by a financial crisis.  

And it would endorse the imposition of some currency controls by developing countries, as long as they were put in place in advance of any crisis, such as was done by Chile, rather than after as was the case in Malaysia.  

Martin said that "there are good ways and bad ways" to impose currency controls and the traditional blanket opposition among industrial countries to them was wrong.  

His plan also calls for a search for ways to force private-sector lenders to participate in any financial rescue.  

And in a pointed message to other G-7 central banks, particularly the U.S. Federal Reserve but also the anti-inflation focussed German Bundesbank, Martin called for interest rates that would "support sustainable growth."  

"Quite simply, G-7 central banks must pay close attention to the risks of an extended global slowdown," he said.  

Martin's sternest message was to commercial banks. Under the present system the IMF and governments put up money first to solve a financial crisis.  

"The private sector gets involved only at the end, if at all," he noted. "Quite clearly that's not an equitable way to share the burden and even more to the point, it's no longer on."  

Reacting to the top banks' moves, economists agreed yesterday's quarter-point rate cut doesn't sound like a huge amount.  

However, the mere act of lowering rates can have a powerful psychological effect on all-important consumer confidence, which has been lagging in recent months, they said.  

Consumer spending has been the chief engine driving the strong growth enjoyed, until recently, by both the Canadian and U.S. economies.  

"I don't think a quarter-point cut makes a huge difference," said Peter Drake, economist with TD Bank in Toronto.  

"However, consumers always react positively to a cut in rates even if it's small."  

The Fed's cut can also send a powerful signal to volatile world markets that the United States is not indifferent to the turmoil roiling economies around the globe.  

PAUL MARTIN'S PLAN  

Here is Finance Minister Paul Martin's six-point reform plan for the world financial system:  

- Co-ordinated plan among the G7 countries to cut interest rates.  

- Standstill mechanisms in which the International Monetary Fund can suspend payments and investment contracts with the private sector in times of extreme emergency.  

- Greater attention to the needs of the poorest countries to ensure they receive resources and support they need to begin growing.  

- Expeditious action to strengthen national financial systems and international oversight.  

- Renewed commitment by the emerging nations to sound economic fundamentals and structure.  

- Provide countries with weak capital markets with extra time and transition mechanisms before all restrictions are lifted on capital moving in and out of their jurisdictions.  
   INi814 : Banking | i8150106 : Development Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | imf : International Monetary Fund | ecat : Economic News | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBToronto Star Newspapers Ltd.   ANDocument HMSP000020051216du9u008p9  



 HDGreenspan's cut not enough to save the Goldman goose     BYANDREW ALEXANDER     WC800 words   PD30 September 1998   SNDaily Mail   SCDAIM   ED1ST   PG67   LAEnglish   CY(c) 1998  
   LPTHE 1 /4 pc off US interest rates last night may have initially disappointed Wall Street, which hoped for more. The Dow Jones ended 28 down at 8080. It has, in fact, long been US Federal Reserve policy to eke out cuts of 1 /4 pc a month, even when embarking on a substantial easing.  

Fed chairman Alan Greenspan justifies the 1 /4 pc drop to 5 1 /4 pc in the funds rate (but not the discount rate) primarily by the effect on US growth from weak foreign economies. He also cites the possibility of banks tightening credit as problems mount, and disturbed conditions in stock markets.  
   TDWorries about growth should apply even more strongly in Britain. Growth rates next year are being rapidly ratcheted down by forecasters. If the conservative Fed can cut to match new, deflationary world conditions, why not the Bank of England? It will be harder now - and rightly so - for the Bank to avoid an early cut.  

City analysts fear that the hawks on the Monetary Policy Committee will still be in the ascendant this month, but hope for a reduction in November.  

The speed at which the deteriorating economic picture has caught some 'experts' on the hop has been demonstrated by the decision of Goldman Sachs to pull its flotation.  

Inevitably, the spectacle of the world's most prestigious and self-confident merchant bank with egg on its face has caused some unseemly mirth among rivals in the City. They also noted with some amusement that the firm's much-vaunted strategist, Abby Cohen, was only weeks ago predicting 9300 for the Dow in December.  

Here we have Goldman - which regards itself as the supreme adviser of other businesses on how to float and when - managing a miracle of mistiming.  

The flotation, for November, was first announced in mid-June as the Dow hit 9000, just weeks before the peak of 9338.  

The firm insists it is 'committed' to floating eventually - and providing multimillion cash payouts for the top brass.  

Meanwhile, it is creating 100 new 'managing directors' to add to its army of 180 partners (who are also managing directors) and 200 managing directors (who are not partners).  

Since all of them can expect large salaries, Tuesday's decision does not mean that we need to pass round the hat yet.  

Markets and investors everywhere should heed the warning this event provides. Goldman has its fingers in virtually every financial pie in the globe. It should be better placed than almost anyone else to detect trouble ahead.It failed to do so. Indeed, only last week it had to cough up Pounds 176m to keep hedge fund Long-Term Credit Management from collapse.  

One reason for the failure to foresee events must be the effect of its own propaganda. Firms such as Goldman make vast sums of money when markets are rising.  

And, along with many other brokers, it relishes the chance to talk up the market. That temptation will not have gone away. It may even be greater in today's difficult circumstances.  

There is no reason to suppose that Goldman, given the scale of its operations, is not exposed to other hedge funds as well as LTCM. More troubles may well emerge on that front.  

Not only would it be logical to expect these funds to have hit problems in turbulent markets, there are already signs that trouble exists. Some of the more puzzling movements in markets make sense if it is assumed that the big players are being forced to liquidate positions.  

For example, convergences in euro-currencies have widened when they should have narrowed.  

Commodities have rallied despite increasing predictions that economic growth is slowing faster than had been expected. The surprise rally in the yen may be accounted for in the same way.  

All that could make it even more difficult for LTCM to clear its own position. The $3.5bn (Pounds 2.05bn) creditor banks have had to produce may not be the end of the story.  

What must also increase concern are the gigantic figures released by central banks yesterday on the volume of derivatives trading, as measured in April - and probably more now.  

Average daily turnover in currency and interest rate derivatives on Over The Counter markets is about Pounds 243bn, with London's business alone increasing 131pc over three years. Turnover on official exchanges may be many times larger.  

These figures do not of course indicate potential losses or gains.  

Those will be made on the most minute margins.  

But the figures do suggest that it would need a fantastic level of liquidity to absorb the liquidation of large numbers of positions without causing alarming turbulence. We have been warned.  
   RF958169160   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPDINTEREST RATES | UNITED STATES OF AMERICA   PUBAssociated Newspapers   ANDocument DAIM000020060409du9u00i17  



 HD =Japan Keeps Appetite For Treasurys, But Buying May Fall    BY By Michiyo Seki    WC349 words   PD30 September 1998   ET11:14   SNCapital Markets Report   SCCM   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 1998, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP TOKYO (Dow Jones)--Japanese investors will likely continue as net buyers of U.S. Treasurys in the second fiscal half starting Oct. 1, but the purchases may fall as balance sheets become stretched and as appetite for currency risk fades. 

 The turmoil in global financial markets and the prospect of more interest rate cuts by the Federal Reserve are likely to buoy U.S. Treasurys prices in the months ahead, despite the record low yields already set in recent sessions. 
   TD On Wednesday, the yield on the U.S. 30-year bond fell to a new record low 5.07% in Tokyo dealings, following the Fed's decision Tuesday to trim interest rates by 0.25 percentage point. 

 In addition, Japanese investors have few other attractive investment options, with domestic stocks depressed and yields on Japanese government debt at negligible levels following the recent easing by the Bank of Japan. 

 According to data from the Ministry of Finance, Japanese investors were net purchasers of Y3.060 trillion of U.S. bonds (both Treasurys and corporate bonds) in April-July 1998, the first four months of the current fiscal year - though this buying normally is weighted toward the early part of the fiscal year. 

 In fiscal 1997, Japanese investors were net sellers of U.S. bonds amounting to Y2.431 trillion in the second half of the year, but net buyers of Y3.153 trillion in the first half. 

 Even so, analysts said they remain doubtful that Japanese investors will aggressively boost their U.S. asset holdings, at a time when credit is tight and Japan's financial crisis is curbing the appetite for risk. 

 "Neither banks nor companies have much capacity to take risk now," said Hiroshi Sakurai, economist at Kankaku Research Institute. "Under the current economic conditions, their risk-taking ability is severely impaired." This should make them cautious about taking on more currency risk with the purchase of U.S.-dollar denominated Treasurys, he said. 

 (MORE) Dow Jones Newswires  09-30-98 

 0514EDT 
   RF1142 4206 62555   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REasiaz : Asia | easiaz : Eastern Asia | jap : Japan | namz : North America | usa : United States   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument cm00000020010916du9u02bg9  



 SE News Business    HD Rates fall to aid economy but some say it's not enough    BY GUY DIXON    CRInvestment Reporter, With reports from Marian Stinson and Shawn McCarthy   WC745 words   PD30 September 1998   SNThe Globe and Mail   SCGLOB   EDMetro   PGA1   LAEnglish   CY All material copyright Thomson Canada Limited or its licensors. All rights reserved. 
   LP The U.S. Federal Reserve Board moved to limit the spread of global economic contagion yesterday by lowering a key interest rate, sparking a similar cut by the Bank of Canada. 

 The Fed's policy-making committee decreased its overnight lending rate by one-quarter of a percentage point to 5.25 per cent, ending its dry spell of no rate changes since March, 1997. 
   TD But Finance Minister Paul Martin suggested that the trend-setting U.S. rate may need to be cut further to prop up the global economy. 

 "Quite simply, G7 central banks must pay close attention to the risks of an extended global slowdown," he said just before the Fed's afternoon announcement. "Global growth prospects have worsened, and the balance of risks now lies clearly on the downside." 

 Investors hoping for more relief from the U.S. central bank were disappointed. "The move was designed to help shore up global financial markets," said Sung Won Sohn, chief economist at Norwest Corp. in Minneapolis, "but unfortunately, global conditions will likely continue to deteriorate." The Bank of Canada followed the U.S. example with an identical quarter-point cut yesterday, lowering its own lending rate to 5.75 per cent from 6 per cent. Analysts speculated this may be the first of several rate cuts by the Canadian central bank, gradually undoing its one percentage-point rate hike last month. 

 "Assuming the currency behaves, they would like to reverse all of the 100 basis-point increase they performed on Aug. 27," said Ted Carmichael, senior economist at J. P. Morgan in Toronto. (A basis point is one one-hundredth of a percentage point.) 

 Many Canadian banks also took the cue, lowering the prime lending rates offered to their best customers and some variable mortgage rates. The Bank of Nova Scotia also lowered some fixed-term mortgage rates. 

 But the feeling that the rate cut was too little -- and perhaps too late -- buffeted some currency and stock markets. 

 The Canadian dollar sagged from its afternoon highs, ending the day at 66.20 cents (U.S.), unchanged from Monday, after climbing to 66.68 cents ahead of the Fed's rate-cut announcement. 

 Reflecting this pessimism, North American stock markets fell on the news, with many Wall Street investors feeling the U.S. rate cut wasn't large enough. 

 After Fed chairman Alan Greenspan's hints in recent weeks that a rate cut was in the offing, many investors had already priced in a decrease of as much as 50 basis points. 

 "The market expected more," said David Jones, chief economist at Aubrey Lanston & Co. in New York. 

 The Fed's policy committee said it lowered its lending rate, known as the Federal funds rate, to "cushion the effects on prospective economic growth in the United States of increasing weakness in foreign economies," adding that the "slightly lower federal-funds rate should now be consistent with keeping inflation low and sustaining economic growth going forward." 

 "There was nothing in the announcement that implied that they may lower rates again," said William Dudley, chief U.S. economist at Goldman Sachs & Co. in New York. "It was the mildest move they could have done." 

 At the core of the decision is a subtle shift by the Fed policymakers away from fears of an overheated U.S. economy and possible inflation to growing concern about the effects of overseas economic crises on the U.S. economy. 

 Fed watchers, who try to read the tea leaves left behind by the Fed committee's highly secretive decision-making process, believe Mr. Greenspan led the charge to lower rates. The central bank's chairman had recently said that the U.S. cannot "remain an oasis of prosperity unaffected by a world that is experiencing greatly increased stress." 

 "Chairman Greenspan probably would have cut sooner than he had," if not for some of the inflation hawks in the Fed committee, said Norwest Corp.'s Mr. Sohn. 

 Much of the pessimism among investors revolves around whether yesterday's small decrease, or even a series of incremental cuts, provides enough of a reprieve from the high borrowing costs and tight credit around the world. 

 "The 25 basis-point cut was already priced in the market, but the natural momentum is already downward," Mr. Sohn said. 
   ART Illustration    INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | m131 : Money Markets | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | npag : Page-One Story   REcana : Canada | namz : North America | usa : United States   IPDUnited States | Canada | monetary policy | interest rates | banks | currency | dollar | Federal Reserve Board | Bank of Canada   ANDocument glob000020011205du9u01ceh  



 CLMInside the Market   SE 2, Investing    HD Too much faith vested in Greenspan & Co.    BY Patrick Bloomfield    WC815 words   PD30 September 1998   SNThe Financial Post   SCFINP   EDDaily   PG20   LAEnglish   CY (c) Copyright 1998 The Financial Post Company 
   LP The bated breath around the globe ahead of yesterday's interest rate news from the U.S. Federal Reserve's open market committee was not a good sign. 

 Fed chairman Alan Greenspan and his fellow governors are only human. To expect them to solve all the problems of this sorry world with one click of their interest-rate fingers smacks of psychological desperation. When markets live on wishful hoping, as distinct from hard facts, watch out. 
   TD In the real world, the facts are beginning to look remotely encouraging. The Japanese politicos appear to be getting closer to a realistic approach to dealing with the dud debts in their banking system. Wobbly currencies, such as the Brazilian real, have been pulled back from the brink by central and private banking support. Europe is still relatively strong, and appears reasonably isolated from Asian trade problems. 

 The North American consumer is still spending, but less enthusiastically. Keeping him or her in a relatively sanguine buying mood is what market watchers everywhere have been hoping Greenspan will achieve. 

 The idea is that, having set the stage by nudging short-term interest rates down a quarter of a percentage point yesterday (not as large a decline as some had hoped), the people at the Fed can repeat the process in the months ahead, when needed. 

 But the lesson of history is that lower interest rates are not a cure-all, particularly at a time marked by too much investment, borrowing and concentration of economic power in corrupt hands, in so many of those nations that had been relied on to swell world buying power. 

 Japan went the lower-interest rate route early this decade - and it is no better off today. The Fed itself cut interest rates to splinters in the 1930s, without avail. 

 It is called "pushing on a string." One hopes that, with U.S. consumer sentiment weakened by what is going on in the rest of the world, Greenspan & Co. are pushing on something more than a string in their hitherto bustling economy. But they are not miracle workers. 

 Meanwhile, the currency barriers are being readied abroad and these, though often introduced as temporary remedies (just as income tax was), can be hard to remove. 

 They are good for those in the protected nation fortunate enough to have money to invest or to be able to corral investment into personal ventures. In so doing, they create a climate of apparent recovery that argues for their perpetuation. 

 But they may well have introduced a layer of bureaucracy and rewarded the ordinary citizen, as distinct from the ordinary investor, with higher prices, even as the wealthy avoid the pain by wheedling their funds out of the country. That is my opinion, partly formed from many years in South Africa where exchange controls were first introduced in the 1960s. 

 Reverting to the markets where stocks trade, some in North America may regard all this as the background for no worse than a bull-market correction. But there are others who feel compelled to look back over their shoulders at two of the more bitter bear markets of this century - the decline and fall of 1974 and the even worse decline after 1929. 

 Carlyle Dunbar, a fine investment writer and market technician, sent me several charts comparing those two woeful times with each other, and with the far less woeful, one-day tumble of 1987. 

 What disturbs me is that so many people in the marketplace today can think only in terms of the 1987 variety, which was a market aberration as much as a bear market. A real bear market, as I have said previously, deceives investors into thinking the worst is over, and then takes them on another ride downward. 

 In 1930, for instance, the Dow Jones industrial average was back near 300. But that did not stop it sliding to its low of 41.22 in 1932. 

 A comment here from Richard Russell, whom older hands will recall as publisher of investment letter Dow Theory Letters. In 1977, he noted that both the above crashes came shortly after "new eras" in the investment world were purported to have begun. 

 Does that not have a familiar ring? 

 A final point: many investors regard today's markets as unusually volatile. As Abby Cohen, of Goldman Sachs & Co., pointed out at the Toronto Society of Financial Analysts' forecast dinner, that is a misconception. Markets had been through a long period of reduced volatility, but have reverted to more normal levels. A glance through the charts Dunbar sent me of the Dow since its inception on May 29, 1896, confirms that reading. 
   RFToday's Business; (Ed. note) Patrick Bloomfield, a Financial Post regular contributor, invests in securities and may hold issues mentioned in this column.   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m11 : Equity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPDColumn | United States Federal Reserve Board | INTEREST RATES | STOCK MARKET | UNITED STATES   ANDocument finp000020011205du9u00hai  



 SE 1, News    HD Greenspan's move may be first of a series    BY Peter Morton, Washington Bureau Chief    WC457 words   PD30 September 1998   SNThe Financial Post   SCFINP   EDDaily   PG5   LAEnglish   CY (c) Copyright 1998 The Financial Post Company 
   LP U.S. Federal Reserve chairman Alan Greenspan launched yesterday what is widely expected to be a new series of interest rate cuts among major economies aimed at trying to forestall a global recession. 

 "Although it's disappointing the cut was only one-quarter [of 1%], this will be the first cut of many," said David Rosenberg, senior economist with Nesbitt Burns in Toronto. 
   TD The move by the Federal Reserve came as consumer confidence in the U.S. dropped for the third-straight month in September, the biggest drop since January. 

 "Tumultuous financial markets here and abroad and unsettling political developments in the U.S. have been major factors in curbing consumer confidence," said Lynn Franco of the Conference Board. 

 The U.S. move was matched by Canada. Other leading industrialized countries are expected to follow. 

 "With 40% of the globe in recession or stagnation and leading indicators in Europe, Canada and the U.S. all showing a turn downward, there's absolutely no question monetary and bond prices will ease," Rosenberg said. 

 Merrill Lynch & Co. chief economist Bruce Steinberg said he expected the Bank of England to quickly follow suit as well, "in a co-ordinated English-speaking rate reduction," but that European countries will not move until next year. 

 "But [the Fed move] is certainly not enough to prevent a further slowdown in global growth and earnings momentum," he said from New York, adding that another 50 basis points will likely be cut by next summer. 

 Finance Minister Paul Martin was among the first of the G7 finance ministers to call for a co-ordinated monetary policy among major countries. 

 "Quite simply, G7 central banks must pay close attention to the risks of an extended global slowdown," Martin said at a meeting of Commonwealth finance ministers in Ottawa. "Central banks need to be prepared to act quickly as risks appear on the horizon, or if economic activity continues to slow." 

 Finance ministers from the leading economies will arrive in Washington this week for the annual meetings of the World Bank and International Monetary Fund. 

 Both institutions have come under heavy criticism for failing to prevent economic turmoil in Asia and Russia. Most countries, including Canada, are calling for major reforms. 

 There was still skepticism among economists that a cut in U.S. and other global rates would be enough to keep the Asian crisis away from U.S. shores. 

 The Washington-based Economic Strategy Institute said a model it did of the U.S. economy showed growth could fall 0.7% next year and as much as 2.7% in 2000 if the global crisis worsens. 
   RFToday's Business   COmerly : Merrill Lynch & Co Inc   INiinv : Investing/Securities   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m11 : Equity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPDINTEREST RATES | UNITED STATES   ANDocument finp000020011205du9u00h8l  



 HD N.Y. Stocks: Shares Drop On Profit-Taking After Rate Cut    WC643 words   PD30 September 1998   ET19:05   SNDow Jones International News   SCDJI   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 1998, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP NEW YORK (Dow Jones)--Stocks lost ground Wednesday amid profit-taking in the aftermath of the Federal Reserve's interest-rate cut. The Dow Jones Industrial Average was down 159 points to 7920 in midday trading. As of the close of trading Tuesday, the industrial average was up 2.2% for the year, although it was still down 13.5% since its record close of 9337.97 set on July 17. 

 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index eased 16.70 Wednesday to 1032.40, the New York Stock Exchange Composite Index shed 8.60 to 509.70 and the Nasdaq Composite Index slipped 36.50 to 1697.60. Declining issues outnumbered advancers 1,994 to 796 on the Big Board, where volume reached 196 million shares. The Yom Kippur holiday is expected to keep many market participants away, which can lead to volatile trading conditions. 
   TD With the close of the third quarter at hand, money managers were eager to book some profits won in the weeks following Fed Chairman's Alan Greenspan's first hint of an impending rate cut in a speech on Sept. 4. Stocks rallied in anticipation of a cut of at least one-quarter point, with some analysts even speculating that the Fed might opt for a larger, half-percentage-point cut. Investors now are growing hopeful that Tuesday's cautious move by the Fed indicates it's only the first of several impending rate reductions. Analysts now will be looking to see if other central banks will join the Fed in lower rates to stimulate the global economy. 

 An encouraging move came late Tuesday, when the Bank of Canada cut its key lending rate to 5.75% from 6%. On Wednesday, Hong Kong and South Korea also made cuts. 

 RJR Nabisco Holdings slid 1 1/2 to 25 1/4 after the New York-based food and tobacco concern slashed its third-quarter earnings projections as conditions worsen in Russia. In a statement issued after the close of markets, the cigarette and food marketer expects earnings of between 46 cents and 48 cents a diluted share, sharply lower than the 60 cents projected by analysts. 

 Excluding costs related to settling litigation, R JR posted earnings of 75 cents a diluted share in the third quarter of 1997. 

 Bankers Trust tumbled 6 to 54 13/16 on rumors of large hedge-fund losses. 

 Lucent Technologies slid 5 11/16 to 68 13/16, leading the Big Board most actives. BT Alex. Brown lowered its rating on the telecommunications giant to market perform from buy. 

 Northern Telecom tumbled 5 1/16 to 30 13/16, adding to Tuesday's 12% loss. Trading in the Canadian telecommunications concern's stock was halted Tuesday after the company's top officials told analysts that revenue growth would not be as high as expected. 

 Peco Energy rose 1 5/8 to 36 5/16. Merrill Lynch & Co. raised its investment rating on the Philadelphia electricity and natural-gas concern to near-term buy from accumulate. 

 CNF Transportation gained 1 5/16 to 28 1/8 after the Palo Alto, Calif., trucking company said Tuesday in response to inquiries from investors and financial analysts that it expected record third-quarter earnings and that there had been no negative developments to explain recent weakness in the company's stock price. Gregory L. Quesnel, president and chief executive, said that profits in the third quarter are expected to be in line with current First Call financial analysts' consensus. 

 Motorola lost 1 3/16 to 43 3/8. The Schaumburg, Ill., electronics company will introduce a new technology that lets people use telephones and simple voice commands to obtain information from the Internet. 

 (END) Dow Jones Newswires 30-09-98 

 1705GMT 
   RF20716 4116 5042   NSccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m11 : Equity Markets | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia | namz : North America | nz : New Zealand | usa : United States   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument dji0000020010916du9u08g2v  



 HD REPEAT:NY Stocks Seen Lower As Rate-Cut Disappointment Cont.    BY By Robert O'Brien    WC224 words   PD30 September 1998   ET15:18   SNDow Jones International News   SCDJI   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 1998, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP NEW YORK (Dow Jones)--Equity markets around the globe sagged overnight in response to the Federal Reserve's uninspiringly small interest-rate cut, and that will force U.S. equities, still contending with their own disappointment, lower from Wednesday's opening bell. 

 In Tokyo, the Nikkei Index was off sharply, falling 3% to its lowest level in more than 12 years as investors, sizing up the implications of the Fed's move Tuesday, realized that there would be no quick bailout from U.S. shores. 
   TD The reaction in Europe has been a little more measured, but still sharp and direct. In Frankfurt, the DAX Index has fallen 2.5%, while in London, the FT-SE 100 has given up 1.6%. 

 So far, there has been little official response on the part of foreign central banks to the Fed's decision Tuesday that cut the Federal Funds rate by 25 basis points. 

 U.S. banks also have been slow to react. On Tuesday, only Norwest mimicked the Fed's move by cutting its prime lending rate. But Chase Manhattan followed suit Wednesday, and with a money center bank in hand, there could be more big banks making similar moves. 

 (MORE) Dow Jones Newswires 30-09-98 

 1318GMT 
   RF20716 4116 5042   NSccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m11 : Equity Markets | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia | namz : North America | nz : New Zealand | usa : United States   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument dji0000020010916du9u08foo  



 HD N.Y. Stocks Seen Lower As Rate-Cut Disappointment Continues    BY By Robert O'Brien    WC224 words   PD30 September 1998   ET15:16   SNDow Jones International News   SCDJI   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 1998, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP NEW YORK (Dow Jones)--Equity markets around the globe sagged overnight in response to the Federal Reserve's uninspiringly small interest-rate cut, and that will force U.S. equities, still contending with their own disappointment, lower from Wednesday's opening bell. 

 In Tokyo, the Nikkei Index was off sharply, falling 3% to its lowest level in more than 12 years as investors, sizing up the implications of the Fed's move Tuesday, realized that there would be no quick bailout from U.S. shores. 
   TD The reaction in Europe has been a little more measured, but still sharp and direct. In Frankfurt, the DAX Index has fallen 2.5%, while in London, the FT-SE 100 has given up 1.6%. 

 So far, there has been little official response on the part of foreign central banks to the Fed's decision Tuesday that cut the Federal Funds rate by 25 basis points. 

 U.S. banks also have been slow to react. On Tuesday, only Norwest mimicked the Fed's move by cutting its prime lending rate. But Chase Manhattan followed suit Wednesday, and with a money center bank in hand, there could be more big banks making similar moves. 

 (MORE) Dow Jones Newswires 30-09-98 

 1316GMT 
   RF20716 4116 5042   NSccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m11 : Equity Markets | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia | namz : North America | nz : New Zealand | usa : United States   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument dji0000020010916du9u08foj  



 HD ECB Watch: Fed Rate Cut Sparks ECB Rate Cut Debate    BY By Uta Harnischfeger    WC359 words   PD30 September 1998   ET14:48   SNDow Jones International News   SCDJI   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 1998, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP FRANKFURT (Dow Jones)--The Federal Reserve's interest rate cut Tuesday has sparked a heated debate over whether the European Central Bank will follow suit early next year, especially if the global financial crisis dampens euro-zone growth more than originally expected. 

 "When you look at the way ECB policymakers such as Duisenberg and Issing describe global risks and say they fear deflation as much as inflation, then there's a clear bias (by the ECB) toward lowering rates," said Adolf Rosenstock, head of European economics for Nomura International. Wim Duisenberg is president of the ECB and Otmar Issing its chief economist. 
   TD Others flatly reject that view. They say that Spanish, Italian and Irish rate cuts to German, or core euro-zone levels, by year-end will de facto lower European rates by about 0.30-0.40 percentage point. They also argue that the global crisis has already indirectly lowered European rates by keeping the Deutsche Bundesbank and others from raising their rates this autumn. Finally, they argue that Europe's economic cycle is totally different from that of the U.S., thus making rate cuts unnecessary here. 

 "I disagree that the Fed rate cut implies that the ECB will cut rates when it comes into power - that's only true if European growth suffers strong setbacks from the global crisis in the first quarter" of 1999, said Rita Schuhmacher, European economist at Nikko Europe in London. 

 "The ECB won't just lower rates because there's a global crisis," Schumacher added. 

 The ECB will be in charge of monetary policy for the euro zone starting Jan. 1, 1999. 

 But besides their many points of contention, analysts are certain that the Fed rate cut won't jolt the Bundesbank or its core European counterparts into action. 

 Tuesday, Bundesbank Vice President Juergen Stark said there was no need for a German or French rate cut due to the different economic situations in Europe and the U.S. The Bundesbank's policy-setting council next meets Thursday. 

 (MORE) Dow Jones Newswires 30-09-98 

 1248GMT 
   RF1103 4270   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | e52 : Euro Zone/Currency | ecat : Economic News | eec : European Union | m11 : Equity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations   REaust : Austria | belg : Belgium | benluxz : Benelux Countries | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | eurz : Europe | fin : Finland | fra : France | gfr : Germany | greece : Greece | ire : Ireland | italy : Italy | lux : Luxembourg | medz : Mediterranean | namz : North America | neth : Netherlands | porl : Portugal | scandz : Scandinavia | spain : Spain | swed : Sweden | uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | weurz : Western Europe   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument dji0000020010916du9u08fnb  



 HD New York Stocks Seen Opening Down After Fed Action    WC492 words   PD30 September 1998   ET14:39   SNDow Jones International News   SCDJI   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 1998, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP NEW YORK (Dow Jones)--New York stocks are set to open slightly lower Wednesday, as sellers who waited on the sidelines reenter the market following the Fed's less-than-hoped-for, one-quarter percentage point reduction in the federal funds rate on Tuesday. 

 "Overseas (markets) seemed to take our interest rate cut worse than our market did," said Peter Coolidge, managing director of equity trading at Brean Murray & Co. Inc. 
   TD He said the one-quarter point cut, which had already been factored into the market, disappointed investors who had hoped for a one-half point reduction. Nonetheless, he characterized it as a "good start." 

 Alan Greenspan "has a coherent strategy that he's putting into place and this is the first step," Coolidge said. "This is probably the start of several rate cuts (and) the question is: 'when is the next cut?'" 

 A one-half point cut "would have signaled that world economies are in tougher shape than we thought," Coolidge said. 

 Regardless, he noted, "sellers who had been holding off are now back." 

 Coolidge added that the Yom Kippur holiday will take many major players out of the market, causing thin, and thus, volitile, conditions. 

 Also, as this is the end of the third quarter, portfolio managers are likely to liquidate or add positions, which could further roil major averages. 

 The Standard & Poor's 500 stock index futures contract for December is down 12.2 points, indicating a lower open, while the 30-year Treasury is up 22/32, pushing the yield down to 5.047. 

 On Tuesday, the Dow Jones Industrial Average closed down 28.32 at 8080.52 after adding 80 points Monday. The Dow was up by as much as 41 points before the Fed's mid-afternoon announcement of the rate cut, and down by as many as 93 points shortly after the announcement. 

 The Nasdaq Composite Index fell 5.17 points, or 0.3%, to 1734.05. 

 Hong Kong stocks ended moderately higher, but trading volume fell to its lowest level in almost three years as investors remained sidelined ahead of the long holiday weekend. The Hang Seng gained 45.85, or 0.59%, to settle at 7,883.46. 

 Tokyo stocks plunged to a 12-year closing low Wednesday after Moody's Investors Service downgraded Nomura Securities Co., the nation's biggest securities firm. The Nikkei 225 index tumbled 415.04 points, or 3%, to close at 13,406.39, extending Tuesday's 87.94-point slide. 

 Tokyo's losses helped ignite selling in European markets, where there also was disappointment with Tuesday's rate cut by the U.S. Federal Reserve. 

 In Germany, Franfurt's DAX index was recently down 2% at 4483, while London's FT-SE 100 was off 1.6% at 5025. 

 -By Victor Ozols; 201-938-5394 

 (END) Dow Jones Newswires 30-09-98 

 1239GMT 
   RF20716 4116 5042   NSccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m11 : Equity Markets | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia | namz : North America | nz : New Zealand | usa : United States   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument dji0000020010916du9u08fn2  



 HD ECB Watch: Fed Rate Cut Sparks ECB Rate Cut Debate    BY By Uta Harnischfeger    WC361 words   PD30 September 1998   ET13:27   SNDow Jones International News   SCDJI   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 1998, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP FRANKFURT (Dow Jones)--The U.S. Federal Reserve's interest rate cut Tuesday has sparked a heated debate over whether the European Central Bank will follow suit early next year, especially if the global financial crisis dampens euro-zone growth more than originally expected. 

 "When you look at the way ECB policymakers such as Duisenberg and Issing describe global risks and say they fear deflation as much as inflation, then there's a clear bias (by the ECB) toward lowering rates," said Adolf Rosenstock, head of European economics for Nomura International. Wim Duisenberg is president of the ECB and Otmar Issing its chief economist. 
   TD Others flatly reject that view. They say that Spanish, Italian and Irish rate cuts to German, or core euro-zone levels, by year-end will de facto lower European rates by about 0.30-0.40 percentage point. They also argue that the global crisis has already indirectly lowered European rates by keeping the Deutsche Bundesbank and others from raising their rates this autumn. Finally, they argue that Europe's economic cycle is totally different from that of the U.S., thus making rate cuts unnecessary here. 

 "I disagree that the Fed rate cut implies that the ECB will cut rates when it comes into power - that's only true if European growth suffers strong setbacks from the global crisis in the first quarter" of 1999, said Rita Schuhmacher, European economist at Nikko Europe in London. 

 "The ECB won't just lower rates because there's a global crisis," Schumacher added. 

 The ECB will be in charge of monetary policy for the euro zone starting Jan. 1, 1999. 

 But besides their many points of contention, analysts are certain that the Fed rate cut won't jolt the Bundesbank or its core European counterparts into action. 

 Tuesday, Bundesbank Vice-President Juergen Stark said there was no need for a German or French rate cut due to the different economic situations in Europe and the U.S. The Bundesbank's policy-setting council next meets Thursday. 

 (MORE) Dow Jones Newswires 30-09-98 

 1127GMT 
   RF1103 4270   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | e52 : Euro Zone/Currency | ecat : Economic News | eec : European Union | m11 : Equity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations   REaust : Austria | belg : Belgium | benluxz : Benelux Countries | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | eurz : Europe | fin : Finland | fra : France | gfr : Germany | greece : Greece | ire : Ireland | italy : Italy | lux : Luxembourg | medz : Mediterranean | namz : North America | neth : Netherlands | porl : Portugal | scandz : Scandinavia | spain : Spain | swed : Sweden | uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | weurz : Western Europe   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument dji0000020010916du9u08fjs  



 HD US Rate Cut Little Help For HK Banks, Property Developers    BY By Kate Pound Dawson    WC294 words   PD30 September 1998   ET11:56   SNDow Jones International News   SCDJI   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 1998, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP HONG KONG (Dow Jones)--Analysts and economists on Wednesday dismissed the U.S. interest rate cut as a nice gesture, but not much real help to Hong Kong's foundering economy. 

 "There's no real impact," said Shamus Mok, the economist for the Bank of East Asia Ltd. While the cut could give a modest psychological boost to markets, it was too small to spur the local economy or prompt Hong Kong banks to cut their interest rates, he and others said. 
   TD Far more crucial to both banks and property developers, several analysts said, is the Hong Kong unemployment rate, and Tuesday's rate cut won't reverse the steady climb this year in joblessness. 

 The U.S. Federal Open Market Committee cut its target federal funds rate by a quarter-percentage point to 5.25% Tuesday. The Federal funds rate is the Federal Reserve's target for the rate banks charge each other for overnight funds. 

 Because of the Hong Kong dollar's peg to the U.S. dollar, local interest rates generally track U.S. rates. 

 Not this time. 

 Banks are "just now down to an almost normal margin spread after having almost none," said Deborah Shuler, a banking analyst at Moody's Asia Pacific Ltd. 

 With recession gripping Hong Kong and the local dollar under repeated attack, interbank borrowing rates have shot up. Over the summer, the Hong Kong Interbank Offered Rates, which banks pay when they borrow money, often were more than double the 10.5% prime rate, which banks charge their best customers. But since early September, Hibor rates have generally been below prime. 

 (MORE) Dow Jones Newswires 30-09-98 

 0956GMT 
   RF1144 4254 62556   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m11 : Equity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REasiaz : Asia | china : China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | easiaz : Eastern Asia | hkong : Hong Kong | namz : North America | usa : United States   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument dji0000020010916du9u08few  



 HD U.S. Treasurys In Tokyo Higher; 30-Yr Yld Hits Record Low    WC353 words   PD30 September 1998   ET09:00   SNCapital Markets Report   SCCM   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 1998, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP TOKYO (Dow Jones)--Prices of U.S. Treasurys extended gains late Wednesday in Tokyo, prodded higher when several large Japanese dealers snapped up bonds in bulk orders. 


The buying, which traders said began at the open of Tokyo's markets,
sent the yield on the benchmark 30-year bond to an all-time low of
5.06%, before yields bounced back somewhat.
   4 1/2%   2-year 100  5/32   Up  1/32  4.42%
   5 1/4%   5-year 103 28/32   Up  4/32  4.35%
   5 5/8%  10-year 108 11/32   Up  5/32  4.54%
   5 1/2%  30-year 106 17/32   Up 10/32  5.07%

   TD 2-to-30-Yr Yield Spread: 65 BPS Vs 66 BPS 

 At the Chicago Board of Trade, the December bond futures contract was trading at 130-10, up from 130-02 at the opening of the late trading, but the closing quote was unavailable due to a CBOT system error. The December Eurodollar contract on the Singapore International Monetary Exchange recently traded at 94.905, down from 94.955 Tuesday. 

 Traders apparently shrugged off disappointment with the U.S. Federal Reserve's decision Tuesday to cut the Fed Funds target rate by only a quarter percentage point to 5.25%, in part because overriding concerns about credit risk and the worldwide slowdown continue to support the market's strength. 

 Few expect the Treasurys market surge to stall. 

 The perception that the Fed's interest-rate cut is only the first of several to come is also helping bonds. 

 "I think the Fed is going to have to go another 25-50 basis points lower by the end of the year," said one trader. 

 Retail orders, limited by today's fiscal half-year end settlement deadline, are expected to pick up within the week, as Japanese institutional investors once again seek the higher yields of dollar-denominated assets. 

 -By Kenji Hall; 813-5255-2939; khall@ap.org 

 (END) Dow Jones Newswires  09-30-98 

 0300EDT 
   RF1079 4041   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REasiaz : Asia | easiaz : Eastern Asia | jap : Japan | namz : North America | usa : United States   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument cm00000020010916du9u02bbw  



 HD U.S. Debt Futures Rally, Send December Bond To Record Level    WC391 words   PD30 September 1998   ET22:01   SNCapital Markets Report   SCCM   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 1998, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP CHICAGO (Dow Jones)--Interest rate futures exploded higher Wednesday with bond futures closing at near record levels on the strength of a collapse in global equity prices. 

 The December bond ended up 1 13/32 at 131-15 - a record high - smashing the old record of 130-11 set last week. 
   TD Disappointment over the small size of Tuesday's 1/4-point interest-rate cut by the Federal Reserve sent Asian and European stock markets lower, putting severe downward pressure on U.S. stocks. 

 Rumors swirling financial floors of further hedge fund troubles helped drive investors into the safety of Treasury products, traders said. Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan and New York Federal Reserve Bank President William McDonough will respond to the current skittishness regarding hedge funds before the House Banking Committee starting Thursday at 10 a.m. EDT. 

 Treasury Secretary Robert Rubin will speak about the global economy Thursday at 1 p.m. EDT in New York. 

 Meanwhile, one analyst said part of the rise in Treasury futures Wednesday was due to the covering of some short futures positions held by Long-Term Capital Management, as the hedge fund tries to right itself after effectively being taken over by its creditors to ward off collapse. 

 Technical analyst Will Kissane of Cargil Investors Service sees resistance for the December bond at 131-24 and 132-00. But he believes the market could retreat Thursday, perhaps after a morning uptick. Support for the market could come in around 130-28, but 130-22 would be the ultimate target. 

 "I think we've squeezed all the shorts out," said Kissane. 


Amid the turbulence, the market will be faced with an employment
report Friday that will give fuel to arguments one way or the other
about interest rates. Consensus estimates for September's report are
that about 210,000 new jobs were added to payrolls.
Contract                       Price       Change
Dec Federal Funds             95.000      Unch
Mar 1999 Eurodollars          95.315      Up 11.0 Bp
Dec 10-Years                  121-14      Up 31/32
Dec T-Bonds                   131-15      Up 1 13/32
Mar 99 to Mar 00 Euro Spread  11.5 Vs 9.5
   -By Michael McHugh (312)750-4142



michael.mchugh@cor.dowjones.com



(END) Dow Jones Newswires  09-30-98



1601EDT

   RF4101   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m15 : Derivative Securities | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument cm00000020010916du9u0282m  

HD Global Firms a Factor in  Federal Reserve 's Rate Cut Determination    BY David Schwab    WC1,182 words   PD29 September 1998   SNKRTBN Knight-Ridder Tribune Business News: The Star-Ledger, Newark, N.J   SCKRTBN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright (C) 1998 KRTBN Knight Ridder Tribune Business News; Source: World Reporter (TM)
   LP Sep. 29--It hasn't been the best of times for Englewood Cliffs-based Bestfoods. One day this month, shares fell 6.6 percent amid concerns that Latin America's economic woes could cut sales of Hellmann's mayonnaise and Skippy peanut overseas. 

 Same story for Foster Wheeler. Its stock price skidded to a 10-year low in part because of fears the Clinton engineering and construction firm could be hurt by Asia's financial turmoil. Twenty-five percent of its backlog of work is there. 
   TD Joseph Reilly, president of Heisler Industries Inc., may not be as big a player, but he's feeling the same pressures. His Fairfield company, with annual sales of about $8 million and 53 workers, makes equipment used to automate industrial plants. Developing nations are a prime market. 

 It is companies such as these -- ones stung by an increasingly global economic crisis -- that will be on mind of the Federal Reserve today as it debates whether to cut interest rates as a means to lower borrowing costs and bolster the bottom lines of companies feeling the pinch of lost international sales. 

 Just four months ago, the U.S. Small Business Administration honored Heisler as exporter of the year in the New York-New Jersey region, thanks largely to huge sales increases in Asia. In three years, overseas sales jumped from about $200,000 to almost $3 million per year, with Asia accounting for about two-thirds of all exports. But Reilly's long since stopped celebrating. 

 "We have gotten zero orders, not one dollar in orders, from Asia since last September," said Reilly, who now says he doesn't see any contracts from Asia for five to 10 years. "It's just been devastating." 

 The effects of economic problems from Asia to Latin America to Russia have escalated to the point where Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan left strong hints last week that he may cut interest rates when the Fed's policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee meets today. 

 A rate cut would send an important symbolic message to financial markets and back up Greenspan's comments that while the U.S. economy is still prospering, policymakers can't ignore the growing global economic uncertainties, experts say. 

 For businesses, a rate cut could make it cheaper to expand and buy new equipment, thereby providing stimulus to a slowing American economy. For consumers, the immediate impact of a rate cut is probably less significant, experts say. 

 Thirty-year mortgages are already at 30-year lows, having dipped last week to 6.81 percent nationwide, according to HSH Associates of Butler. Plus, cuts in short-term rates don't always translate into immediate cuts in 30-year mortgages, said Keith Gumbinger, an HSH vice president. 

 Consumers could save about $1 billion a year in credit card interest if the Fed action is followed by a cut in the prime rate, the rate banks typically charge their best customers, said Robert McKinley, president of CardWeb, a credit card research firm. But for a typical consumer, with a $5,800 balance, that translates into a savings of about $1 a month. About 60 percent of bank credit cards charge interest rates tied to the prime rate. 

 A rate cut would be the first since January 1996, when the Fed cut the short-term federal funds rate from 5.5 percent to 5.25 percent. The last time the Fed charged interest rates was in March 1997 when it raised the federal funds rate from 5.25 percent to 5.5 percent. 

 Most economists believe a rate cut is likely, if not today, then in the near future. Some analysts also believe there may be several cuts in the next months. 

 Greenspan "is more concerned about a pronounced slowdown in the U.S. economy than he is about a resurgence of inflation, which was basically the theme for the last few years," said Veronika White, an economist with First Union Corp. in Philadelphia. "He is more concerned about the Asia contagion spreading to the Americas." 

 But a rate cut won't be all good news, according to some economists. They worry it could signal that Greenspan, in effect, has inside information about other more serious economic problems on the way. 

 "A rate cut would be a serious signal the Fed knows something we don't about systemic risks," said M. Cary Leahey, chief U.S. economist for High Frequency Economics in Valhalla, N.Y. 

 Cutting rates would represent a significant policy shift for the Federal Reserve, one Greenspan has been hinting at in public for a month. 

 For several years, the Fed's biggest concern has been whether to raise interest rates, based on worries that an overheated U.S. economy could produce significant labor shortages that would push up wages and spark inflation. 

 But inflation has been virtually nonexistent, this year running at 1.6 percent, and the nation's economy appears to be slowing. 

 Now a bigger concern is that economic downturns overseas will translate into significant declines in American exports, as the markets for these products, especially manufactured goods, dries up. Just last week, the government reported exports fell for the fourth consecutive month to the lowest level since February 1997. 

 What the turmoil in Asia has meant for Heisler is orders that haven't materialized. 

 In the Philippines, for instance, the company expected to get a $3 million order from a major oil processor to automate a factory. But with the devaluation of the peso last year, American products suddenly became 10 times more expensive. At that point, it was cheaper not to automate. 

 In China, Heisler also expected a series of orders from one of the world's largest paint companies. Heisler did get one order worth more than $3 million, but as many as five others were put on hold, perhaps for as long as 10 years, Reilly said. 

 These days, he's trying to drum up business in Mexico, instead of Asia, and is building up his inventory rather than laying off any of his specially trained workers. 

 "People who don't travel around the world can't appreciate how terrible these markets are," said Reilly, who has visited Asia twice in the last year just to maintain his contacts, waiting for the eventual turnaround. "They are just gone." 

 An interest rate cut could help exporters such as American Computer Resources Inc., also in Fairfield. The company, which sells replacement computer parts, has seen its European exports drop by about 20 percent this year. 

 One problem has been the strong American dollar, which makes the company's parts more expensive to overseas customers. Lower interest rates in the United States will make American markets somewhat less attractive to foreign investors, which in turn should weaken the dollar and make American exports somewhat cheaper. 

 "I don't think it will make a dramatic difference, but it can't hurt if it makes them a little cheaper," said Richard Guglielmo, a company vice president. 
   INi814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPC6011   IPDCorporate Sales | Interest Rates | United States of America, Americas~US | Americas | North America | Pacific Rim | Federal Reserve Banks   ANDocument krtbn00020010917du9t0105d  

HD Federal Reserve  Expected to Cut Interest Rates Today    BY Robert Dodge and Jane Seaberry    WC1,376 words   PD29 September 1998   SNKRTBN Knight-Ridder Tribune Business News: The Dallas Morning News   SCKRTBN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright (C) 1998 KRTBN Knight Ridder Tribune Business News; Source: World Reporter (TM)
   LP Sep. 29--There seems to be little doubt on Wall Street that the Federal Reserve Board will cut interest rates when it meets Tuesday. The larger remaining unknown is by how much. 

 Most economists expect the central bank's Federal Open Market Committee to ease short-term interest rates by a quarter of a percentage point. Others expect a half-point drop. 
   TD "The market is pretty convinced that they are going to move," said David Wyss, an economist at Standard & Poor's DRI in Lexington, Mass. "The real question is, do they move a quarter or half?" 

 That is an important question for economic policy-makers, businesses and consumers. 

 For James Wood, who owns two auto dealerships, a quarter-point cut in interest rates could mean $3,500 a month. That would be the interest savings he would realize on $15 million of inventory he maintains at both the James Wood GM Supercenter in Decatur and James Wood Auto Park in Denton. 

 "Most of the time, we pay interest on a floating rate," Mr. Wood said. "When it goes down, the car dealer itself will have to pay less, and that's usually a pretty good amount of money." 

 Mr. Wood and other business owners will be happy to know that most economists think a rate reduction by the central bank will trigger similar cuts by banks on business loan rates. In fact, they predicted the major banks will quickly reduce their prime lending rate, which is used to figure the lending fees on many commercial loans. 

 "The prime rate will come down almost immediately," said Sung Won Sohn, chief economist at Norwest Corp. in Minneapolis. 

 Fed chief Alan Greenspan appeared to confirm that the Fed would reduce interest rates when he testified before the Senate Budget Committee last week. 

 Analysts expect the 12 voting members of the Federal Open Market Committee to cut the federal funds rate one of two interest rates controlled by the Fed. That is the interest fee that banks charge one another on overnight loans, and it stands at 5.5 percent. 

 While the Fed usually adjusts rates in quarter-point increments, analysts raised the possibility of a larger decrease, saying the Fed may want to send a strong signal that it will not allow the economy to deteriorate. 

 "Chairman Greenspan wants to shore up confidence globally," Mr. Sohn said. 

 Even so, analysts said a larger rate cut might rattle financial markets, suggesting economic problems are worse than they appear. They said the Fed is more likely to reduce rates gradually, cutting them a full percentage point by late next year. 

 They said the Fed also may reduce a second interest rate its discount rate, the interest fee it charges on direct loans to banks. A reduction in the discount rate, which is 5 percent, might prod central banks in Europe to cut rates as well. 

 "Economic and financial conditions are going to get worse for some time to come," said Mr. Sohn, who said Mr. Greenspan will not want to ease credit conditions with just one or two moves. "I would worry that if you expended all of your ammunition, what would you do next year?" 

 And analysts noted that Mr. Greenspan will have to convince some of his fellow policy-makers that a rate cut is necessary. Some are still more concerned about inflation than they are about a recession. 

 Some private economists share their concerns. 

 "The Fed is embarking on an easing policy when the unemployment rate is low and wage pressures are building," said Joel Naroff, chief bank economist at First Union Bank in Philadelphia. "A year from now, we will be worrying about how to mop up what will be rising inflationary pressures." 

 The Fed last changed the federal funds rate in 1997, increasing it from 5.25 percent in an effort to contain inflation. Only three months ago, Mr. Greenspan was still warning about the risk of inflation and hinting that the Fed might raise interest rates. 

 But a lot has changed since then. 

 "I think we know where we have to go," Mr. Greenspan told lawmakers last week. "We don't underestimate the problem." 

 The problem is the worsening economic crisis in Asia, which has spread to Russia and threatens Latin America. The Fed, along with Clinton administration officials, is eager to halt the spread of the financial contagion, noting that Latin America purchases more than 15 percent of U.S. exports. 

 "Observers of the global scene thought that while Asia was serious, it had not engulfed the whole world," said Richard Berner, chief economist at the Mellon Bank in Pittsburgh. "Russia has now defaulted, volatility has increased, and there has been a change in investor psychology." 

 For now, the U.S. economy appears to be in relatively good shape. The economy continues to grow, and unemployment is holding steady at a low 4.5 percent. 

 "The fundamentals of the U.S. economy do not demand that the Fed do anything," Mr. Naroff said. 

 But there are plenty of warning signs that the Asian economic crisis is taking hold here, leading economists to sound alarms that a recession is possible next year. And they said the Fed wants to keep the U.S. economy growing in an effort to head off a worldwide recession. 

 "The Fed wants to make a strong statement that they want to avoid a global recession, which is now a risk," Mr. Berner said. 

 U.S. manufacturers have been hurt on two fronts. Exports are down, as consumers overseas have reduced their purchases of American-made goods. And at home, U.S. factories are competing against a flood of imports made less expensive by the depressed value of overseas currencies. 

 So far this year, the U.S. trade deficit is running at an annual rate of $185 billion. That is 68 percent higher than last year's imbalance of $110 billion, and economists said the trend will only get worse. 

 "We are seeing an enormous drain on exports," Mr. Wyss said. 

 And the Fed is believed to be concerned about the liquidity and stability of financial markets after the collapse of the Long-Term Capital Management LP hedge fund. The Fed recently arranged a $3.5 billion bailout of the fund by Wall Street investment firms. 

 "They want to aggressively provide liquidity to the financial system and markets," Mr. Berner said. 

 Some business operators said they hope lower interest rates would draw new customers. 

 "It could probably only help, because more homes will be sold," said Mike Whitley, owner of Affordable Fence Co. in Plano. "The more homes, the more fences; the more fences, the more repairs. I love these low interest rates." 

 Unlike other businesses, Mr. Whitley said, lower rates would not save him much interest expense. 

 "We just pay cash for everything now," Mr. Whitley said. "We're talking about $2,000 to $4,000 per fence. It's only out of your pocket for five or six days. It's a lot more trouble to charge stuff than just write a check for it." 

 A rate cut by the Fed also would translate into lower interest fees for consumers, including those paid for home mortgages. 

 Carlton Ward of Plano recently purchased a house and got a 7 percent, fixed-rate loan. But the 40-year-old firefighter said he would consider refinancing if rates come down enough. 

 "If they drop down to 5 percent to 5.5 percent, I might consider it," he said. "An interest rate can make a difference of $75 to $110 a month on a house note." 

 Joe Hill, 55, said a rate reduction might help with his credit card debts. The Dallas computer programmer said he would like to see the monthly finance charges reduced as he tries to pay off balances on four credit cards. 

 Economists said Mr. Hill might be disappointed. 

 They said credit card rates are not affected as much by economic conditions as they are by competition between banks. 

 Asked whether he could recall credit card rates declining, Mr. Hill joked about the probable outcome: "Oh, I guess, only if they're forced to." 
   INi814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPC6019   IPDInterest Rates | United States of America, Americas~US | Americas | North America | Pacific Rim | Central Reserve Depository NEC   ANDocument krtbn00020010917du9t0100p  

HD Dow Rises as Investors Anticipate Cut in Interest Rates    BY Amy Feldman    WC330 words   PD29 September 1998   SNKRTBN Knight-Ridder Tribune Business News: New York Daily News   SCKRTBN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright (C) 1998 KRTBN Knight Ridder Tribune Business News; Source: World Reporter (TM)
   LP Sep. 29--Wall Street crossed its fingers yesterday that Federal Reserve chairman Alan Greenspan's briefcase would have a telltale bulge as he headed to the Fed's meeting this morning to consider an interest rate change. 

 If the briefcase Greenspan carries is bulging at the seams, Fed-watchers say, it typically means an adjustment in interest rates -- a slim briefcase usually means no change. 
   TD The Dow Jones industrial average rose yesterday as investors anticipated a cut of either one-quarter or one-half of a percentage point in the rate banks charge each other, a move that would bring those rates to 5 percent or 5.25 percent. 

 The Dow rose 80.07 points, or 1 percent, to 8,108.84.The Nasdaq composite fell 4.37 to 1,739.22, after rallying 26 points at midday. 

 A cut in interest rates would give a boost to the American economy, which has been hurt by the turmoil in world markets, and would likely help stocks by cutting the return on bond investments. 

 "The last time we had any change of policy at all was March of last year, and the last time we had a cut in interest rates was January 1996," said Phil Orlando, chief investment officer at Value Line Asset Management. 

 "I think chairman Greenspan would very much like to lower rates, but can he get his colleagues to go along?" asked Lyle Gramley, an economic consultant to the Mortgage Bankers Association and a former Federal Reserve governor. Gramley predicted a one-quarter percentage point rate cut. 

 Economists and traders have been watching for a rate cut since a Greenspan speech earlier this month hinted one was in the works. 

 And Wall Street took comments by the Fed chairman last week -- in the wake of the massive bailout of formerly high-flying hedge fund Long-Term Capital Management -- as a fresh signal a cut was likely. 
   INi814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPC6011 | 6231   IPDInterest Rates | Market Reports | United States of America, Americas~US | Americas | North America | Pacific Rim | Federal Reserve Banks, Security&Commodity Exchanges   ANDocument krtbn00020010917du9t00zxb  

HD Economists Expect  Federal Reserve  to Cut Interest Rates    BY Robert Dodge and Jane Seaberry    WC1,362 words   PD29 September 1998   SNKRTBN Knight-Ridder Tribune Business News: The Dallas Morning News   SCKRTBN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright (C) 1998 KRTBN Knight Ridder Tribune Business News; Source: World Reporter (TM)
   LP Sep. 29--There seems to be little doubt on Wall Street that the Federal Reserve Board will cut interest rates when it meets Tuesday. The larger remaining unknown is by how much. 

 Most economists expect the central bank to ease short-term interest rates by a quarter of a percentage point. Others expect a half-point drop. 
   TD "The market is pretty convinced that they are going to move," said David Wyss, an economist at Standard & Poor's DRI in Lexington, Mass. "The real question is do they move a quarter or half." 

 That is an important question for economic policy-makers, businesses and consumers. 

 For James Wood, who owns two auto dealerships, a quarter-point cut in interest rates could mean $3,500 a month. That would be the interest savings he would realize on $15 million of inventory he maintains at both the James Wood GM Supercenter in Decatur and James Wood Auto Park in Denton. 

 "Most of the time, we pay interest on a floating rate," Wood said. "When it goes down, the car dealer itself will have to pay less, and that's usually a pretty good amount of money." 

 Wood and other business owners will be happy to know that most economists think a rate reduction by the Fed will trigger similar cuts by banks on business loan rates. In fact, they predicted the major banks will quickly reduce their prime lending rate, which is used to figure the lending fees on many commercial loans. 

 "The prime rate will come down almost immediately," said Sung Won Sohn, chief economist at Norwest Corp. in Minneapolis. 

 Fed chief Alan Greenspan appeared to confirm the Fed would reduce interest rates when he testified before the Senate Budget Committee last week. 

 Analysts expect the 12 voting members of the central bank's Federal Open Market Committee to cut the federal funds rate one of two interest rates controlled by the Fed. That is the interest fee that banks charge one another on overnight loans, and it stands at 5.5 percent. 

 While the Fed usually adjusts rates in quarter-point increments, analysts raised the possibility of a larger decrease, saying the Fed may want to send a strong signal that it will not allow the economy to deteriorate. 

 "Chairman Greenspan wants to shore up confidence globally," Sohn said. 

 Even so, analysts said a larger rate cut might rattle financial markets, suggesting economic problems are worse than they appear. They said the Fed is more likely to reduce rates gradually, cutting them a full percentage point by late next year. 

 They said the Fed also may reduce a second interest rate its discount rate, the interest fee it charges on direct loans to banks. A reduction in the discount rate, which is also 5.5 percent, might prod other central banks in Europe to cut rates. 

 "Economic and financial conditions are going to get worse for some time to come," said Sohn, who said Greenspan will not want to ease credit conditions with just one or two moves. "I would worry that if you expended all of your ammunition, what would you do next year?" 

 And analysts noted that Greenspan will have to convince some of his fellow policy-makers that a rate cut is necessary. Some are still more concerned about inflation than they are about a recession. 

 Some private economists share their concerns. 

 "The Fed is embarking on an easing policy when the unemployment rate is low and wage pressures are building," said Joel Naroff, chief bank economist at First Union Bank in Philadelphia. "A year from now, we will be worrying about how to mop up what will be rising inflationary pressures." 

 The Fed last changed the federal funds rate in 1997, increasing it from 5.25 percent in an effort to contain inflation. Only three months ago, Greenspan was still warning about the risk of inflation and hinting that the Fed might raise interest rates. 

 But a lot has changed since then. 

 "I think we know where we have to go," Greenspan told lawmakers last week. "We don't underestimate the problem." 

 The problem is the worsening economic crisis in Asia, which has spread to Russia and threatens Latin America. The Fed, along with Clinton administration officials, are eager to halt the spread of the financial contagion, noting that Latin America purchases more than 15 percent of U.S. exports. 

 "Observers of the global scene thought that while Asia was serious, it had not engulfed the whole world," said Richard Berner, chief economist at the Mellon Bank in Pittsburgh. "Russia has now defaulted, volatility has increased, and there has been a chance in investor psychology." 

 For now, the U.S. economy appears to be in relatively good shape. The economy continues to grow, and unemployment is holding steady at a low 4.5 percent. 

 "The fundamentals of the U.S. economy do not demand that the Fed do anything," Naroff said. 

 But there are plenty of warning signs that the Asian economic crisis is taking hold here, leading economists to sound alarms that a recession is possible next year. And they said the Fed wants to keep the U.S. economy growing in an effort to head off a worldwide recession. 

 "The Fed wants to make a strong statement that they want to avoid a global recession, which is now a risk," Berner said. 

 U.S. manufacturers have been hurt on two fronts. Exports are down, as consumers overseas have reduced their purchases of American-made goods. And at home, U.S. factories are competing against a flood of imports made less expensive by the depressed value of overseas currencies. 

 So far this year, the U.S. trade deficit is running at an annual rate of $185 billion. That is 68 percent higher than last year's imbalance of $110 billion, and economists said the trend will only get worse. 

 "We are seeing an enormous drain on exports," Wyss said. 

 And the Fed is believed to be concerned about the liquidity and stability of financial markets after the collapse of the Long-Term Capital Management LP hedge fund. The Fed recently arranged a $3.5 billion bailout of the fund by Wall Street investment firms. 

 "They want to aggressively provide liquidity to the financial system and markets," Berner said. 

 Some business operators said they hope lower interest rates would draw new customers. 

 "It could probably only help, because more homes will be sold," said Mike Whitley, owner of Affordable Fence Co. in Plano. "The more homes, the more fences; the more fences, the more repairs. I love these low interest rates." 

 Unlike other businesses, Whitley said, lower rates would not save him much interest expense. 

 "We just pay cash for everything now," Whitley said. "We're talking about $2,000 to $4,000 per fence. It's only out of your pocket for five or six days. It's a lot more trouble to charge stuff than just write a check for it." 

 A rate cut by the Fed also would translate into lower interest fees for consumers, including those paid for home mortgages. 

 Carlton Ward of Plano recently purchased a house and got a 7 percent, fixed-rate loan. But the 40-year-old firefighter said he would consider refinancing if rates come down enough. 

 "If they drop down to 5 percent to 5.5 percent, I might consider it," he said. "An interest rate can make a difference of $75 to $110 a month on a house note." 

 Joe Hill, 55, said a rate reduction might help with his credit card debts. He would like to see the monthly finance charges reduced as he tries to pay off balances on four credit cards. 

 "That's three too many," the Dallas computer programmer said. 

 Economists said Hill might be disappointed. They said credit card rates are not affected as much by economic conditions as they are by competition between banks. 

 Asked if he could recall credit card rates declining, Hill joked about the probable outcome: "Oh, I guess, only if they're forced to." 
   INi814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPC6011   IPDInterest Rates | Forecasts and Predictions | United States of America, Americas~US | Americas | North America | Pacific Rim | Federal Reserve Banks   ANDocument krtbn00020010917du9t00zw1  



 SEBusiness   HDU.S. likely to cut interest rates     BYDeborah Mcgregor     CRFOR Southam Newspapers   WC710 words   PD29 September 1998   SNKitchener-Waterloo Record   SCTKWR   EDFinal   PGD1   LAEnglish   CYCopyright (c) 1998 Kitchener-Waterloo Record.  
   LPWASHINGTON -- The Bank of Canada's trend-setting rate currently sits at six per cent, and analysts expect the bank to follow suit if the Fed reduces its rates.  

A minority of economists were speculating that the Fed might make an even deeper cut of one-half a percentage point, or 50 basis points. But many Fed-watchers believe that would be a hard sell among the more conservative members of the policy-making Federal Open Market Committee, which meets today.  
   TD"There are some hawks on the board who would not be comfortable with too much easing," said Diego Giurleo, vice-president of foreign exchange operations for the Royal Bank of Canada in New York.  

Chaired by Greenspan, the 11-member committee will review and debate the latest economic data before coming to a decision about interest rates. However, Greenspan's recent public statements leave little doubt about his concern that the "virulent" global economic crisis is getting worse and now threatens the United States.  

In testimony before a congressional panel recently, Greenspan telegraphed his concern in the cryptic banker's language that has become his trademark.  

Over the past month and a half, "deteriorating foreign economies and their spillover to domestic markets have increased the possibility that the slowdown in the growth of the American economy will be more than sufficient to hold inflation in check," he said.  

In other words, the Fed isn't so worried about inflation getting out of hand because the international financial crisis is already taking the wind out of America's economic sails.  

Freshly revised numbers show gross domestic product in the U.S. grew by just 1.8 per cent in the second quarter of this year, well down from the robust 5.5. per cent growth in the first quarter.  

Just a few months ago, Greenspan and his colleagues had been talking about the need to possibly raise interest rates in response to signs that inflationary pressures might be accelerating.  

But troubling developments in Asia and fears that the financial crisis may be spreading to Latin America, where U.S. banks have far greater exposure, have changed the picture. Adding to the anxiety was the recent near-collapse of the large and prominent Long-Term Capital Management firm, which prompted an 11th-hour $3.5-billion US rescue operation orchestrated by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York.  

A rate cut will spur banks to lower their prime lending rates, charged to their best customers, which in turn will lower interest payments for millions of consumers and businesses. Acting on the basis of Greenspan's statements to Congress, one bank -- Southwest Bank of St. Louis -- lowered its prime rate last Thursday from 8.5 per cent to eight per cent.  

Most economists said today's anticipated interest rate cut has already been factored in by the stock markets. The Dow Jones Industrial Average soared 257 points last Wednesday in response to Greenspan's remarks.  

Markets were responding in part to Greenspan's assertion that: "We have to bring the existing instabilities to a level of stability reasonably shortly, to prevent the contagion from really spilling over and creating some very significant further difficulties for all of us."  

Some economists speculated that today's cut in interest rates, assuming it comes, may be just the beginning of a gradual decline in U.S. rates. "We think the Fed will cut again in the next six months," said Mitchell Held, co-manager of U.S. economics at Salomon Smith Barney in New York, who expects Greenspan to shave a quarter-point off the federal funds rate today.  

For Greenspan, who generally worries more about domestic U.S. policy than about the troubles of the rest of the world, there is one unexpected patch of sunlight. On Wednesday, the United States will declare a federal surplus for the first time in 30 years. While that's unlikely to fuel stock markets or save Asia, it will save Greenspan the time-worn tradition of central bankers' worrying about the deficits of the governments they serve. In that respect, it's one bright spot in an otherwise grim world economic picture.  
   ART(Alan) Greenspan     COroyca : Royal Bank of Canada   INi814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBToronto Star Newspapers Ltd.   ANDocument TKWR000020060203du9t00pfe  

HDNewscast:  Federal Reserve  cuts  interest rate    WC504 words   PD29 September 1998   SNNBC News: Nightly News   SCNTLN   LAEnglish   CY(c) Copyright 1998, NBC Universal Inc. All Rights Reserved.    
   LPTOM BROKAW, anchor:

The price of money is cheaper tonight, not a lot cheaper but enough to lower interest rates on loans, including credit cards and mortgages. The Federal Reserve cut one of its key rates from 5 1/2 to 5 1/4 percent today. That's just a quarter of a percentage point. It didn't do much to help the stock market, and the big question is whether it will kickstart confidence in the American economy, confidence which has been falling recently. For how the news was received on main street in America, here's NBC's chief financial correspondent Mike Jensen, in Geneva, Illinois, tonight.
   TDMIKE JENSEN reporting:

By mid-afternoon, when word of the rate cut spread to this town of 18,000, an hour west of Chicago, Julie Zak headed for her local Ford dealer.

Ms. JULIE ZAK: Because the interest rates have come down today, I think we can actually go into the dealership and make a deal today and come home with a car.

JENSEN: In the last three months, auto loan rates have come down from more than 9 percent to about 8 1/2.

TEXT:

AUTO LOAN RATES

9.2% (down arrow) 8.6%

JENSEN: Now they'll go down even more, and so will other rates. Within hours of today's rate cut by the Fed, bankers and mortgage brokers all over America began to cut their interest rates. Steve Fox did. He's a branch manager at First Home Mortgage.

Mr. STEVE FOX: We have cut the rates on our home mortgage loans, our home equity lines, and our home improvement lines.

JENSEN: His home mortgage rate was 6 3/4 percent. Now it's 6 1/2. Of course, lower rates work two ways. They're great for borrowers, not so great for people who invest in CDs and money market accounts, retirees, like a lot of Dean Carlson's customers at Valley Community Bank, who will find themselves earning less interest.

Mr. DEAN CARLSON: A lot of our rates have dropped a half a percentage point, and a quarter of a percent more is anticipated with the drop of the Fed rate.

JENSEN: Marshall Brodien is one of today's losers.

Mr. MARSHALL BRODIEN: You're not going to make as much money as you want to make by the rates coming down, true?

JENSEN: And you have how much money in CDs?

Mr. BRODIEN: Well, about 150,000 or more.

JENSEN: A year ago, six-month CDs were paying 5.2 percent interest; now 4.9 and heading lower. Still, for most Americans, the lower rates are a blessing. It's cheaper to borrow, and there's more money left to buy things like homes and cars. Julie Zak didn't buy one today, but she says she'll try again this weekend, as millions of Americans take advantage of the cheapest loan rates in a generation. Mike Jensen, NBC News, Geneva, Illinois.
   COvllcmm : Valley Community Bank (CA)   INi814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSntra : Transcript | e1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter   REusil : Illinois | namz : North America | usa : United States | usc : Midwest U.S.   PUBBurrelle?? Information Services   ANDocument NTLN000020120223du9t00otq  

HDNewscast: Wall Street reacts negatively to lower federal  interest rate    WC372 words   PD29 September 1998   SNNBC News: Nightly News   SCNTLN   LAEnglish   CY(c) Copyright 1998, NBC Universal Inc. All Rights Reserved.    
   LPTOM BROKAW, anchor:

Obviously Wall Street was expecting more from the Federal Reserve. The market dropped more than 100 points when word of the rate cut first came out, but the Dow did manage to rebound, ending the day down only about 28 points. The NASDAQ also was down 5 points.
   TD(Stock reports follows)

BROKAW: For a look at the mood on Wall Street, we turn now to CNBC's Ron Insana. Ron, the Fed's action did not live up to the expectations on Wall Street, quite obviously.

RON INSANA reporting:

Indeed, Tom, that was the case. Wall Streeters very frequently are not satisfied with a quarter-point rate cuts. They were hoping for a half-point cut, and they're also still worried about fragility in the financial system, not to mention the fact that third quarter corporate profits from big companies like RJR Nabisco, Gillette and Goodyear are proving disappointing. So this quarter point cut was not nearly what the Street needed to get excited about stocks again.

BROKAW: But was there some good news in all of this?

INSANA: Absolutely. The bond market rallied rather substantially after the Federal Reserve cut interest rates. The yield on long treasury paper or thirty year treasury bonds, long-term interest rates in another manner of speaking, went down to a record low by the close of trading today, down from 6.4 percent a year ago to 5.1 percent today. And that's good news because it could help to revive the economy, as Mike suggested earlier.

BROKAW: All right, thanks very much. Ron Insana of CNBC.

Still ahead tonight, NBC NEWS IN DEPTH, secrets revealed, opening the books on the Kennedy assassination investigation: tens of thousands of documents unclassified, made public for the first time.

Mr. JOHN TUNHEIM (Records Review Board): And they're free to any Americans to come and look at, to make copies, to examine and to make up their own mind about what happened.

BROKAW: A final report on the assassination that has fascinated many Americans for more than three decades now.

And Georges: the aftermath, rain, flooding, still lots of misery in the South.
   COrjrtob : Reynolds American Inc.   INi41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i429 : Tobacco Products | i4291 : Cigarettes   NSntra : Transcript | e1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBBurrelle?? Information Services   ANDocument NTLN000020120223du9t00otp  



 HD Rep. Leach: Little Choice But To Err On Side Of Stimulus    WC110 words   PD29 September 1998   ET23:35   SNDow Jones International News   SCDJI   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 1998, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP WASHINGTON (Dow Jones)--House Banking Committee Chairman Jim Leach, R-Iowa, said the Federal Reserve "had little choice except to err on the side of economic stimulus." 

 Commenting on the Fed's modest interest rate reduction, Leach said that "while the Fed's decision to cut interest rates is good news for the American economy, it is reflective of bad news around the world. 
   TD "Great swaths of the globe--St. Petersburg to Vladivostok, Tokyo to Jakarta--are mired in a recession which is having negative ramifications on our economy," he said. 

 (END) Dow Jones Newswires 29-09-98 

 2135GMT 
   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m11 : Equity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument dji0000020010916du9t08ehe  



 HD U.S. Debt Futures End Mixed; Dec. Bond Seen At Record Soon    WC403 words   PD29 September 1998   ET21:58   SNCapital Markets Report   SCCM   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 1998, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP CHICAGO (Dow Jones)--Interest rate futures ended mixed Tuesday after the Federal Reserve Board sliced 25 basis points off its key Federal funds rate. 

 While the market was expecting at least a 1/4-point cut, some were hoping for perhaps a 50 basis-point reduction. As a result of that disappointment, U.S. stocks swooned as did some shorter-dated futures contracts. Both stocks and Eurodollar futures recovered, with blue-chip stocks trading late in the session in positive territory. 
   TD After a momentary drop, the December bond contract rallied and ended slightly more than 1/2-point higher, peaking at 130-04 near the close, as expectations for continued slow economic conditions put fears of inflation further to rest. 

 "I would guess we'll be at new highs by the end of the week," said Kathy Jones, director of futures research at Prudential Securities. The December contract hit a record high of 130-11 last week. 

 "The long end of the market is thinking this (25 basis-point rate cut) won't be enough to forestall a slowing economy, and possible credit crunch if foreign issues continue to deteriorate, and continue the safe-haven flow of capital out of stocks into bonds," she added. 

 Eurodollar futures backed off initially, as they had been aggressively pricing in a bigger cut in rates, but "the market held in well," said one Eurodollar trader. The lead-month March contract fell to 95.16 compared with Monday's close of 95.21, but it returned to near-unchanged levels. 

 The next focus for the market will be Thursday's testimony by Fed chief Alan Greenspan and New York Federal Reserve Bank President William McDonough on hedge funds in the wake of the near collapse of Long-term Capital Management last week. 


That will be followed by Friday's employment report for September.
Consensus estimates have the economy adding 210,000 new jobs this month.
Contract                       Price       Change
Dec Federal Funds             94.940      Up 1.0 Bp
Mar 1999 Eurodollars          95.205      Dn 0.5 Bp
Dec 10-Years                  120-15      Up 3/32
Dec T-Bonds                   130-02      Up 17/32
Mar 99 to Mar 00 Euro Spread  9.5 Vs 5.0
   -By Michael McHugh (312)750-4142



michael.mchugh@cor.dowjones.com



(END) Dow Jones Newswires  09-29-98



1558EDT

   RF4101   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m15 : Derivative Securities | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument cm00000020010916du9t02b0y  



 HD Brazil's Finance Ministry Declines Comment On U.S. Rate Cut    WC94 words   PD29 September 1998   ET21:17   SNEmerging Markets Report   SCEM   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 1998, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP BRASILIA (Dow Jones)--The Brazilian Finance Ministry declined comment on the announced 25 basis point interest rate cut by the U.S. Federal Reserve, the ministry said in a statement Tuesday. 


Shortly after the decision by the Federal Open Market Committee of the
Federal Reserve became known, the ministry's press office issued a
two-line written statement saying "there won't be any comment."
-By William Vanvolsem; (5561) 244 3095; wvanvolsem@ap.org

   TD (END) Dow Jones Newswires  29-09-98 

 1917GMT 
   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REbraz : Brazil | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | lamz : Latin America | namz : North America | samz : South America | usa : United States   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument em00000020011227du9t00ay3  



 HD U.S. Swaps: Spreads Softer Across Board On FOMC Policy Ease    WC304 words   PD29 September 1998   ET23:32   SNCapital Markets Report   SCCM   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 1998, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP NEW YORK (Dow Jones)--U.S. interest-rate swaps softened across the board Tuesday as participants viewed the U.S. Federal Reserve's decision to ease monetary policy as helpful to global credit conditions. 

 Still, as in the Treasurys market, activity was muted, traders said, with some easing by the Federal Open Market Committee widely anticipated by market participants. 
   TD "The world's okay - everyone's going to be fine," quipped one trader following the FOMC decision to cut the key federal-funds rate to 5.25% from 5.50%. 

 Many participants were disappointed, however, that the FOMC didn't take any action on the discount rate, or opt for a larger ease in federal funds, this trader said. 

 The 10-year and five-year swaps both softened by 0.75 basis points Tuesday, with the five-year spread closing at a midmarket of 74.5 basis points and the 10-year finishing at 80.0 basis points. 

 The short end of the curve softened more, with the two-year swap softening 2.5 basis points to a closing midmarket of 50.0 basis points. 

 One trader said this came despite recent heavy selling of front-end Eurodollar contracts by one large dealer. Ordinarily, that activity would be expected to widen the Treasury-Eurodollar (TED) spread, and firm up swap spreads for shorter tenors. 


Three year swaps softened by 2.0 basis points to 55.5 basis points,
meanwhile. The seven-year swap spread ended softer by 0.5 basis points
at 77.5 basis points and the 30-year spread softened by 0.5 basis points
to 73.5 basis points.
-By Ross A. Snel; 201 938-2086; ross.snel@cor.dowjones.com



(END) Dow Jones Newswires  09-29-98



1732EDT

   RF4275   NSc17 : Funding/Capital | c172 : Corporate Debt Instruments | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | e21 : Government Finance | e212 : Government Borrowing | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m15 : Derivative Securities | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument cm00000020010916du9t02b63  



 HD =Fed Rate Cut Seen As Insurance Against Fincl Contagion    BY By Joseph Rebello    WC379 words   PD29 September 1998   ET20:20   SNCapital Markets Report   SCCM   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 1998, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP WASHINGTON (Dow Jones)--The Federal Reserve took a preemptive step Tuesday to shield the U.S. economy from the global financial contagion, trimming a key interest rate a quarter percentage point to 5.25%. 

 The cut in the Federal Funds rate ended 18 months of interest-rate inertia at the central bank that economists say contributed to the tightest U.S. monetary conditions in nine years. It came amid rising market fears that the contagion that has tipped a third of the world economy into recession could also derail the eight-year U.S. economic expansion. 
   TD The Fed's policymaking Open Market Commitee said it voted to cut the rate to "cushion the effects on prospective economic growth in the United States of increasing weakness in foreign economies and of less accomodative financial conditions domestically." It said a "slightly lower Federal Funds rate should now be consistent with keeping inflation low and sustaining economic growth going forward." 

 The move is likely to provide a measure of stability to U.S. and international markets, which have suffered a deepening credit crunch as investors become risk-averse. Analysts said the cut should trim the one-in-five odds that forecasters placed on a U.S. recession next year. They also should benefit crisis-hit economies by slowing the flight of capital from those economies to the U.S. 

 Still, the cut is too small to keep U.S. investors happy for long, analysts said. Bond investors have been betting for months that the Funds rate will fall a full percentage point to 4.5% by the middle of 1999. Given those expectations, Tuesday's quarter-point cut still leaves the Fed "out of sync" with the markets, said Jim Glassman, an economist with Chase Securities Inc. 

 The cut Tuesday reflected typicial caution at the Fed, which in the last decade has never initiated a policy shift by moving interest rates more than a quarter percentage point. A few economists, citing a grave threat posed to the U.S. by the contagion, had expected a half-point cut Tuesday. But Fed policymakers appeared to see competing risks that warranted caution. 

 (MORE) Dow Jones Newswires  09-29-98 

 1420EDT 
   RF1149 4223   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REasiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia | easiaz : Eastern Asia | eurz : Europe | gfr : Germany | jap : Japan | namz : North America | uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | weurz : Western Europe   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument cm00000020010916du9t02aw9  



 HD U.S. Debt Futures Narrowly Mixed In Light, Pre-FOMC, Trade    WC385 words   PD29 September 1998   ET17:05   SNCapital Markets Report   SCCM   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 1998, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP CHICAGO (Dow Jones)--Interest rate futures are narrowly mixed Tuesday ahead of a key policy meeting of the Federal Reserve Board, but traders said volumes are extremely light as participants stay on the sidelines. 

 "We have to sit tight and see how things go later," said Mike Boss, vice-president at IBJ Lanston at the Chicago Board of Trade. 
   TD (For more information on the Treasury market see page 4041.) 

 The December bond futures contract has traded between a low of 129-13 and a high of 129-22, and traders said there has been very little activity in the pits. 

 The Federal Open Market Committee is expected to cut the Federal funds rate by at least 25 basis points at the conclusion of its meeting around 2:15 p.m. EDT. But there are a number of hopes and bets that the FOMC might reduce rates by 50 basis points. 

 However, there are concerns a mere 1/4-point cut in official short-term rates could disappoint a market pricing in substantial easing by the first quarter of next year. 

 Should bond futures retreat after the meeting, Boss sees resistance at 129-08, which has been an important trendline for the past eight weeks. Further below that, support would be around 128-20/21, the lows of last week. 

 On the upside, a rally could be contained by last week's record high of 130-11. Extending an upward trend would put resistance above that at 132-16. 


Contrary to the popular wisdom of a decline in futures prices should
the Fed cut only 25 basis points, there is some thinking that a small
reduction in rates might hurt global equity markets. That would then
make Treasurys the safe haven they've been for months, and see prices
rise and yields continue to fall.
Contract                       Price       Change
Dec Federal Funds             95.000      Up 0.5 Bp
Mar 1999 Eurodollars          95.215      Up 0.5 Bp
Dec 10-Years                  120-08      Dn 3/32
Dec T-Bonds                   129-16      Up 1/32
Mar 99 to Mar 00 Euro Spread  6.5 Vs 5.0
   -By Michael McHugh (312)750-4142



michael.mchugh@cor.dowjones.com



(END) Dow Jones Newswires  09-29-98



1105EDT

   RF4101   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m15 : Derivative Securities | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument cm00000020010916du9t02alk  



 SE Economy    HD Whys, Wherefores of a Possible Rate Cut --- Easing of Monetary Policy Would Mark a Reversal In Fed's Basic Outlook    BY By Jacob M. Schlesinger    CRStaff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal   WC1,169 words   PD28 September 1998   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGA2   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 1998, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)
   LP WASHINGTON -- Ever since Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan broadly hinted last week at an interest-rate cut, markets have treated a reduction as a near certainty when the Fed's policy makers meet here tomorrow. 

 An easing of monetary policy would mark a swift and amazing turnaround in the central bank's fundamental economic outlook. For well over a year, the Fed's greatest concern has been inflation, not recession. As recently as July, Mr. Greenspan and his colleagues agreed their next move was most likely a rate increase. 
   TD Why would the Fed ease? 

 The new dynamic since the summer has been continued deterioration in Asia's economies, and the disease's spread to Russia and Latin America, which takes more than 15% of U.S. exports. 

 There has been, so far, minimal concrete evidence of a slowdown in the U.S., mainly a slump in manufacturing and a drop in corporate profits. But some early warning signs of deeper damage may be flashing, such as hints of eroding business and consumer confidence, especially as the stock market slumps. There are also fears of a looming credit contraction in the U.S. -- signaled by rising rates on junk bonds in recent weeks, and warnings by some banks of plans to curb lending. "Issuance of equity, and of bonds by lower-rated corporations, has come virtually to a halt," Mr. Greenspan said in congressional testimony last week. "Even investment-grade companies have cut back substantially on their borrowing in capital markets," he added. 

 While growth through the rest of 1998 is likely to remain solid, the outlook for 1999 has become less certain. 

 Would a rate cut be related to the near-collapse of the Long-Term Capital Management LP hedge fund? 

 There would seem to be at least an indirect link. When the New York Fed brokered the deal to bail out the fund last week, spokesman Peter Bakstansky said officials moved because "there was a potential for disruption in the marketplace." Market weakness and volatility of recent weeks could put more financial firms under stress, and could jeopardize markets' workings. 

 Just as Mr. Greenspan promised, after the 1987 stock crash, to provide the economy with sufficient liquidity, a rate cut could take some pressure off the market's weakest links. 

 How big would a rate cut be? 

 Usually, the Fed moves in increments of a quarter percentage point, which would put the federal-funds rate, the rate banks charge one another, at 5.25%. That would bring rates to early 1997 levels, before the Fed boosted rates a quarter-point on inflation fears. 

 But many market participants are betting on a bigger cut, perhaps a half-percentage point, anticipating Mr. Greenspan will want to make a significant statement about his concern for the world's economic frailties. On Friday, investors in bond market futures contracts were treating a half-point cut by year's end as a certainty, and a half-point cut tomorrow as a reasonable possibility. 

 What impact would a rate cut have? 

 There would be some direct stimulus to the U.S. economy. "When interest rates go down, mortgages are cheaper, capital for investment to business people is cheaper, the purchase of durables by consumers on credit is cheaper," Treasury Secretary Robert Rubin explained Friday on NBCTV's "Today" show. "And all of that . . . increases economic activity." 

 Struggling Asian and Latin economies could also benefit from greater American consumption of imports. A cut in U.S. interest rates would also increase somewhat the availability of credit world-wide, easing the global credit crunch. It could also stabilize the destructive turmoil in foreign-exchange markets-investment capital flows to nations that offer high returns, so currencies of other countries tend to fall against the dollar when U.S. rates rise, and rise against the dollar when U.S. rates fall. 

 Beyond any direct economic effect, the hope is for a huge psychological boost to investors, and that markets around the world would either rise or stabilize. The mere hint by Mr. Greenspan of a rate cut can send the Dow Jones Industrial Average soaring hundreds of points. Latin American bonds rallied late last week in anticipation of a Fed move. 

 Market stability could also reduce the possibility of other Long-Term Capital type crises. "It could turn questionable loans into good loans, and prevent other questionable loans from becoming bad loans," says Princeton University economist Alan Blinder, a former Fed vice chairman. 

 But psychological boosts only work so long, short of fundamental changes in economic trouble spots. Japan must fix its banking system; Brazil's economy is still weak. "A Fed rate cut gives Brazil two to four weeks, but it doesn't solve their problems," says Paulo Leme, director of emerging markets for Goldman, Sachs & Co. 

 Is there any downside to a rate cut? 

 The Fed risks reinflating the stock market bubble Mr. Greenspan so famously worried about in his December 1996 "irrational exuberance" speech. 

 Meanwhile, the conditions that led most Fed officials two months ago to consider raising rates remain in place. Unemployment remains at 4.5%, near a quarter-century low, while wages continue to accelerate. Housing, one of the most interest-rate sensitive sectors, already is considered overheated and would get an unneeded stimulus from a rate cut. If fears of a slowdown turn out to be exaggerated, inflationary pressures would be fueled. 

 But inflation remains so low-consumer prices have risen at just a 1.6% annual rate -- and the Asian crisis is pushing down import and commodity prices so much, that the risk of some extra inflation seems less worrisome than it did a few months ago. "There's a risk of some incremental inflation from a Fed easing, but it could be taken back," says Chris Varvares, an economist at Macroeconomic Advisers LLC in St. Louis. "You have to weigh that against reducing the chances of a global meltdown." 

 What's the risk of not easing? 

 Mr. Greenspan is a student of history, and he has studied with care the mistakes the Fed made before and during the Great Depression. No Fed official wants to be blamed for dithering while the world economy slid into recession -- or worse. Japan already has cut short-term rates to 1/4 %. Germany has made clear it isn't about to cut its rates. So the onus appears to be on the world's most powerful central bank, the Federal Reserve. 

 Besides, a rate cut tomorrow is so widely expected, that a failure to do so would likely jolt fragile markets, at least for the day. "The market would fall on its backside," says Dennis Hynes, managing director at R.W. Presspritch, a New York brokerage firm. "If the Fed doesn't cut rates, the market goes down 300 points." 
   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument j000000020010917du9s00ptr  



 SEInvestment   HDUS rate cut wins the local vote   BYRobert Guy      WC631 words   PD28 September 1998   SNThe Australian Financial Review   SCAFNR   EDLate   PG34   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 1998. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.   
   LPGlobal Markets - Local

The attention of domestic financial markets this week will be firmly focused on whether US monetary policy will be eased as anticipated, as well as on the final week of the federal election campaign.
   TDThe outcome of the US Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) meeting on Tuesday, or Wednesday local time, will be the major preoccupation for markets. A number of players expect the Fed to ease rates to support the US economic cycle and global growth.

Federal Reserve chairman Dr Alan Greenspan testified before the Senate Budget Committee last week and appeared to be more bearish on US and global economic prospects than suggested in his testimony to the House Banking Committee during the previous week.

The US Treasury market has priced in a 25 basis point cut, with market players seeing that as the most likely outcome of the meeting.

Australian bonds have shadowed US fixed interest securities and have priced in a rate cut, with the benchmark 10-year bond yield falling to a historic low of 5.11 per cent last week. If the Fed does ease, it is expected that domestic bonds will continue to see falling yields.

"A period of Fed easings will keep bond fundamentals positive and yields should continue to drift down," said Mr Stephen Halmarick, bond strategist with Salomon Smith Barney.

Any cut in US interest rates, and the move of interest rate differentials in favour of Australia, is likely to see the Australian dollar supported, especially with a likely positive reaction from commodity markets.

"In the short term we look for the $A to test the upside of the US55 to US60 trading range, based on the view that a probable Fed easing will not be immediately followed by the Reserve Bank," said Mr Richard Yetsenga, economist with Deutsche Bank.

Some analysts see it as unlikely that the Reserve Bank will also cut rates in the medium term given the recent weakness in the $A, with the possibility of creating import induced inflation.

The local sharemarket will also await the decision of the FOMC meeting, however, market players see any rate cut as having been priced in. The local bourse may take a lead from Wall Street's 0.3 per cent gain on Friday, but will be swayed by a multitude of releases including August retail trade and building approval figures.

In the US, there is the release of the National Association of Purchasing Management's manufacturing index on Thursday, which will give an indication of the strength of the US economy.

In Japan, there is the release of the third quarter Tankan report, which will provide further illumination on the state of the ailing Japanese economy.

The report is expected to show a further deterioration in the economy, with falls expected in capital investment, consumption and exports as a result of the decline in Asian demand and the domestic credit crunch.

However, the release is seen to be less important for the market given the recent focus on banking reform.

The market will focus on the election in the last two days of the week, with some concern about the ramifications of the party's policies on the economy.

"A likely tight election result or Opposition victory will most likely see a risk premium built into longer-term yields and would act to cap any $A euphoria about a rate cut in the US," said Mr Craig James, chief economist with Colonial State Bank.

"Labour's five-part plan centres on spending, particularly on jobs, but with no reform plans for the labour market or the tax system. The high growth-high spending plan poses some upside risk for interest rates and the current account deficit."
   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBFairfax Media Management Pty Limited   ANDocument AFNR000020111226du9s00t6b  



 HD Wall Street Might Not Be Content With Quarter-Point Rate Cut By Fed    WC1,449 words   PD28 September 1998   ET21:54   SNDow Jones Online News   SCDJON   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 1998, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- Although most observers expect the Federal Reserve to reduce U.S. interest rates Tuesday for the first time in 32 months, many analysts say Wall Street might not be satisfied with a small cut without an intent to keep cutting. 

 After Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan's comments last week to a Senate panel, most economists believe the Fed's policy-making Open Market Committee will vote to cut the key federal-funds rate a quarter percentage point to 5.25%. The move would be aimed at bringing a measure of relief to financial markets that have been roiled by global economic turmoil and fears at home about companies' exposure to derivatives and other types of complex securities that may contain large, hidden risks. 
   TD But analysts say the the relief could be short-lived unless the Fed also signals an intent to keep cutting. "Twenty-five basis points is not enough to alleviate deflationary pressures on the economy," said Brian Wesbury, an economist with Griffin, Kubik, Stephens & Thompson Inc. in Chicago. As a result "if they don't follow it up with further cuts, we'll find ourselves back in the same soup after a while." 

 A cut in the target on the federal-funds rate would end 18 months of firm policy by the central bank, which economists say has created the tightest U.S. monetary conditions in nine years. It would help allay market fears of an impending credit crunch in the U.S., which could halt the economy's eight-year expansion. 

 Economists say the Fed's willingness to make additional cuts could be reflected in a package of policy measures likely to be announced Tuesday. Most say a quarter-point cut in the fed-funds rate, the rate banks charge one another on overnight loans, is likely to be accompanied by a similar cut in the discount rate, the rate the Fed charges at its lending window. The discount-rate cut would be largely symbolic, but it would signal a Fed tilt toward further cuts, said Jim Glassman, an economist with Chase Securities Inc. in New York. 

 Some economists say the Fed should take stronger action immediately - by cutting the funds rate half a percentage point to 5%. That would bring the rate much closer in line with expectations in the U.S. bond markets. 

 Without such a cut Tuesday, U.S. stock prices could fall, Wesbury said. "Twenty-five basis points will be the difference between a good day and a bad day in the markets on Tuesday," he said. 

 A cut of 50 basis points, or half a percentage point, would indicate the global troubles have put the Fed on its highest state of alert. The Fed hasn't made such a dramatic shift in interest-rate policy since the stock-market crash of 1987. Usually the Fed cuts rates in smaller increments to avoid shocking the markets. 

 Greenspan has recently spoken of "balanced" risks to the U.S. economy from tight labor markets and the sharpening effects of the global financial crisis. Those comments have indicated inflation has become less of a concern at the Fed, while the global turmoil has become more worrisome. 

 One factor on everyone's minds: the $3.5 billion bailout of hedge fund Long-Term Capital Management L.P. orchestrated by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York last week. The fund lost $2.3 billion in investments around the world during the first eight months of 1998, and the New York Fed said it intervened because the fund's collapse might have damaged the entire U.S. financial system. 

 A day before the bailout was announced, Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan sent his clearest signal yet that the central bank was poised to cut rates, saying the global economic contagion had "infected our markets as well" and caused disruptions in the flow of funds. 

 For well over a year, the Fed's greatest concern has been inflation, not recession. As recently as July, Greenspan and his colleagues agreed their next move, if taken, would more likely be a rate increase. 

 According to the latest Dow Jones-CNBC survey of economists at primary dealers in U.S. government securities, most see the Fed's target on the federal-funds rate declining by at least a half-point from the current 5.50% by the end of this year. Investors in bond market futures contracts have treated a half-point cut by year's end as a certainty, and a half-point cut Tuesday as a reasonable possibility. 

 Investors have been very concerned about the continued deterioration in Asia's economies, and the disease's spread to Russia and Latin America, which takes more than 15% of U.S. exports. But there has been, so far, only minimal concrete evidence of a slowdown in the U.S., mainly in the form of a slump in manufacturing and a drop in corporate profits. 

 But some early warning signs of deeper damage may be flashing, such as hints of eroding business and consumer confidence, especially as the stock market slumps. There are also fears of a looming credit contraction in the U.S. - signaled by rising rates on junk bonds in recent weeks, and warnings by some banks of plans to curb lending. "Issuance of equity, and of bonds by lower-rated corporations, has come virtually to a halt," Greenspan said last week in testimony before a Senate panel. "Even investment-grade companies have cut back substantially on their borrowing in capital markets," he added. 

 There would be some direct stimulus to the U.S. economy from a rate cut. When interest rates go down, mortgages are cheaper, capital for investment to business people is cheaper, the purchase of durables by consumers on credit is cheaper, as Treasury Secretary Robert Rubin noted Friday. 

 Struggling Asian and Latin economies could also benefit from greater U.S. consumption of imports from those regions. A cut in U.S. interest rates would also increase somewhat the availability of credit world-wide, easing the global crunch. It could also stabilize the destructive turmoil in foreign-exchange markets - investment capital flows to nations that offer high returns, so currencies of other countries tend to fall against the dollar when U.S. rates rise, and rise against the dollar when U.S. rates fall. 

 Beyond any direct economic effect, the hope is for a huge psychological boost to investors, and that markets around the world would either rise or stabilize. The mere hint by Greenspan of a rate cut can send the Dow Jones Industrial Average soaring hundreds of points. Latin American bonds rallied late last week in anticipation of a Fed move. 

 Market stability could also reduce the possibility of other Long-Term Capital type crises. But psychological boosts only work so long, short of fundamental changes in economic trouble spots. Japan must fix its paralyzed banking system and recessionary economy; Brazil's economy is still weak. "A Fed rate cut gives Brazil two to four weeks, but it doesn't solve their problems," says Paulo Leme, director of emerging markets for Goldman, Sachs & Co. 

 But there is a downside to a rate cut. The Fed risks reinflating the stock market bubble Greenspan so famously worried about in his December 1996 "irrational exuberance" speech. And the conditions that led most Fed officials two months ago to consider raising rates remain in place. Unemployment remains at 4.5%, near a quarter-century low, while wages continue to climb. Housing, one of the most interest-rate sensitive sectors, already is considered overheated and would get an unneeded stimulus from a rate cut. If fears of a slowdown because of overeas turmoil turn out to be exaggerated, inflationary pressures would be fueled. 

 But inflation remains so low - consumer prices have risen at just a 1.6% annual rate - and the Asian crisis is pushing down import and commodity prices so much, that the risk of some extra inflation seems less worrisome than it did a few months ago. 

 Greenspan is a student of history, and he has studied with care the mistakes the Fed made before and during the Great Depression. No Fed official wants to be blamed for dithering while the world economy slid into recession - or worse. Japan already has cut short-term rates to a miniscule 0.25%. And Germany has made clear it isn't about to cut its rates. So the onus appears to be on the world's most powerful central bank, the Fed. 

 Copyright (c) 1998 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved. 
   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument djon000020020329du9s01buy  



 HD Ready for Prime Time? The one rate that hasn't fallen could drop if the Fed cuts    BY By Jacqueline Doherty    WC1,383 words   PD28 September 1998   SNBarron's   SCB   PG19   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 1998, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP When Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan broadly hinted last week that the central bank would lower short-term rates soon, Wall Street applauded. But on Main Street, when it comes to interest rates, the sound you've heard is one hand clapping. For while bond yields have plunged to lows not seen in more than a generation, the prime rate charged by banks has been stuck at a relatively lofty 8 1/2% for more than a year and a half -- since it was raised to that level. 

 But if, as expected, the Federal Open Market Committee delivers on the chairman's intimation of a cut in the overnight federal funds rate when the panel meets Tuesday, the broad decline in rates could finally trickle down to consumers and small businesses in the form a prime-rate cut. Banks may ignore the market in setting their lending charges, but they do take a cue from Greenspan & Co. 
   TD In years past, the prime was what a bank charged on its best corporate customers' loans. All other loans were priced at some spread above prime. Indeed, at one time, the prime rate was the key benchmark that the proverbial man on the street -- and in the Street -- watched. Now, it's the Treasury's 30-year bond that everyone, from stock traders to the network newscasters, tracks. And while the long bond's yield has plunged to just over 5%, the prime is seemingly frozen. 

 "Prime doesn't quite mean what it used to mean," observes David Berry, director of research at Keefe Bruyette & Woods. "It's not a corporate lending rate any more." 

 What the prime rate means began to change more than two decades ago when corporations increasingly turned to the commercial paper market to borrow at substantially lower rates. Banks responded to the competition by pricing loans at rates that bore some relationship to the market. Most frequently used was Libor, or the London interbank offered rate, the benchmark that represents banks' cost of funds. With threemonth Libor currently at 5 5/16%, loans based on that rate are signficantly below the prime, even after a couple of points get tacked on. 

 Not everyone gets such preferential treatment, however. Most small commercial loans are based on the prime. "The smaller the company, the fewer funding options they have, the more likely prime is used on their loans," notes Leonard Santow of Griggs & Santow. 

 And for consumers, the prime rate still looms large. Many credit cards are pegged to the prime (if they're in the 18% stratosphere). And most home-equity lines of credit use the prime as the base off which interest rates are set. 

 So while most borrowers have benefited from the rally in Treasuries, those with prime-based loans have been left in the dust. Indeed, prime remains the only key rate that's over 7%. Even homeowners have joined in the party with 30-year fixed-rate loans in the mid-6% range. But that's still a relatively wide margin over the 10-year Treasury note, the benchmark for mortgages, which stands at just 4.56%. 

 "The individual borrower has not benefited from lower rates the way the corporations have," observes Richard Drason, an associate director at Fitch IBCA. 

 The interest rate on benchmarks like Libor and the 10-year Treasury are much lower because they are reset every day by supply and demand in the markets. The prime, on the other hand, is established by commercial banks and historically has changed in step with what the Fed does with its administered rates -- fed funds and the discount rate. 

 But, there is no law that says the spread between fed funds and the prime must remain at three percentage points. When interest rates were higher in the 1980s, the spread was as narrow as 1.5 or 2.0 percentage points. And nothing says banks can only change their prime rates after the Fed moves. 

 Late last week, two small Midwestern banks responded to Greenspan's words without waiting for the FOMC to deliver on them. West Des Moines State Bank lowered its prime to 8 1/4% from 8 1/2%. And Southwest Bank of St. Louis, which over the years has tried to lead other banks in lowering the prime, cut its base rate all the way to 8%, also from 8 1/2%. 

 West Des Moines State Bank felt its reduction was the right thing to do for customers, considering that rates on all other loans, like those for autos and homes, have fallen, says David L. Miller, the bank's chairman, CEO and chief investment officer. In six-to-eight weeks, he added, the bank may drop its prime rate another quarter-point. 

 West Des Moines, which has $650 million of total assets, has about 60% of its commercial business loans tied to the prime. Of course, the decline in rates across the board, plus any cut in the prime, will mean less net interest income for all banks. "The guy who was paying you 9% on a mortgage is now paying 7%," says Miller. "The fed funds rate should have been cut a long time ago." 

 In a press release, Southwest Bank said its cut was precipitated by falling commodity prices, slumping bond yields and low inflation. It also believes that the economic problems in Asia and Latin America could begin to hurt Western Europe and the U.S. Southwest Bank hopes that rate cuts will offset the effects. 

 "We've been looking at [changing the rate] for six weeks," says Andrew Baur, chairman of Southwest Bank. After Greenspan seemingly paved the way for a cut, the bank looks for the Fed to lower short-term rates by a full percentage point by year-end-decidedly more than most forecasters expect it to do. 

 However, these two small banks are definitely exceptions. Before lowering the prime, most banks wait for the Fed to cut the fed funds rate. In some ways, it seems very similar to pricing in the airline or cigarette industries, where the key players typically act in unison. 

 In recent years, such a system has worked in the banks' favor. Because most can borrow at Libor, their funding costs have fallen, but revenues from prime-based loans have remained unchanged. Banks that have a large consumer business and that make a lot of small-business loans have benefited the most. 

 "Consumer loan rates are incredibly sticky," says one economist. "It's profit maximizing on the part of banks." 

 Observes another market player: "It's kind of like the price of gas. It goes up fast and down slow." 

 Defenders of the industry say that the prime is used because it is recognizable. Most people have no idea what Libor is. "Prime is a recognized term. It is something the public relates to," says Jack Morris, a spokesperson at Citibank. About $60 billion of Citibank's U.S. creditcard portfolio is prime-based. The bank has a total of $186 billion in loans. 

 Morris also points out that higher rates on credit cards are necessary to compensate lenders for transaction costs, as well as for loss ratios that are much greater than those on large commercial loans. 

 In addition, credit-card customers have gotten savvy. Many switch their accounts to whichever bank is giving the best teaser rate -- often 5% or less -- on Visa or Mastercard. Other consumers use credit cards to accumulate free airline miles or other rebates and pay off balances at month's end. That leaves lenders with no earnings from interest, and while they still receive fees from merchants, it costs money to process the account. 

 Still, prime-based loans are among the most lucrative for banks these days, especially given the yawning chasm between the prime and their cost of funds. The bond market already has discounted a Fed easing Tuesday, and arguably several more after that; so any possible impact there already has been felt. If Greenspan & Co. deliver, this may be a rare instance where the little guy and gal get to enjoy the fruits of a rate cut. 
   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | m131 : Money Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument b000000020010915du9s0021x  



 CLMEconomic Beat   HD Ig-Nobel Prize: Hedge fund's partners should return award    BY By Gene Epstein    WC876 words   PD28 September 1998   SNBarron's   SCB   PG43   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 1998, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP Last week's ghastly spectacle of Wall Street ponying up $3.5 billion to bail out that now-infamous hedge fund, Long-Term Capital Management, prompts an angry suggestion to the Nobel committee in Sweden: 

 As one small gesture for humankind, please demand that economists Robert Merton and Myron Scholes -- both of them partners at Long-Term Capital-return forthwith the $1 million in prize money you bestowed on them just last year. After all, it was their options pricing model, the very thing for which they got the Nobel in the first place, that apparently inspired much of the fund's disastrous trading. And it was their richly undeserved prestige that must have helped Long-Term Capital raise some of the billions it wound up throwing away. Also, from now on try to refrain from giving the prize to economists whose ideas are supposedly "useful," rather than strictly academic. Doing so only gets you into trouble. 
   TD But with that said, last week wasn't a total washout for the economics profession, given Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan's statesman-like speech before the Senate Budget committee on Wednesday. By signaling an interest-rate cut that should come as soon as Tuesday's Federal Open Market Committee meeting, the chairman sounded positively Churchillian, at least for him. With those ominous words, "The restraining effects of recent developments on the U.S. economy are likely to intensify," he delivered his own version of a blood-sweat-and-tears message that sounded a little scary. Indeed, as High Frequency Economics chief economist Carl Weinberg has pointed out, maybe the real question was: What awful stuff does Greenspan know that we don't? 

 Well, in the hope that what he knows isn't that bad, I prefer to call his speech statesman-like, in the sense that it took some courage to signal an easing when the domestic economy looks so robust. Labor markets surely are tight, a fact that was confirmed by last week's news that unemployment insurance claims are still running below 300,000 per week and that the August reading on the Conference Board's Help-Wanted Advertising Index was still close to its 1990s high. The Bureau of Labor Statistics' monthly employment report, due out this Friday, will probably show a decline in the unemployment rate for the month of September, news that will strike an ironic note if the Fed does announce a rate cut on Tuesday. 

 But I'll still be applauding the chairman's initiative, which I like to view as a prudent move to fortify the ramparts of Fortress America against onslaughts from abroad. At the very least, it can't hurt. 

 To begin with, inflation-phobes should recognize that despite the surge in wage rates, the standard measures of price increase still look incredibly tame. Consumer goods prices have risen a barely detectable 0.4% over the past year, and even services, which aren't subject to the lash of global competition, have increased by only 2.6% over the same period, the smallest gain since 1965. 

 And even if a substantial rate cut does push these numbers up by half a percentage point or so, this will hardly be cause for believing the inflation genie has somehow emerged from that bottle to which past Fed policies have blessedly confined him. In fact, as some have suggested, it may be just what the doctor ordered, since it would mean restoring a bit of pricing power to companies that might be in need of it. 

 Another danger from easier money is that it might give rise to the kind of malinvestment -- or to use the more conventional term, "imbalances" -- that set the seeds for recession. But so far, at least, the economy's record is remarkably good on this score. For example, excessive homebuilding is a perennial symptom of too-low interest rates, but right now the nation wide inventory of unsold, newly built homes is close to historic lows in relation to sales, which is one reason for the rise in house prices. 

 The stock market is, of course, one major area where irrational exuberance may well have been manifested, but even here it's doubtful that a rate cut will bring another bull run, given the dim earnings prospects of most corporations. In fact, lower interest rates should help bring that Goldilocks market -- not too high, not too low -- that many of us are praying for at this point. 

 There are other benefits from a rate cut. By restoring some of the the upward slope in the yield curve, it should help keep the banks liquid -- and thereby encourage them to keep credit flowing, which is the lifeblood of the economy. By making it easier for consumers to borrow, it should encourage them to buy, which has been the economy's main buoy. And by boosting economic growth generally, it should enable us to import more goods, which is one beneficial thing we can do for the financially distressed countries of the world. 

 E-mail: gene.epstein@news.barrons.com 

 (See related letters: "Barron's Mailbag: Wordsmanship" -- Barron's Oct. 12, 1998) 
   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles | i8150211 : Unit Trusts/Mutual Funds | ibnk : Banking/Credit | iinv : Investing/Securities   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument b000000020010915du9s00217  



 SE ROB-WSJ    HD Many market watchers predict U.S. rate cut    BY JACOB M. SCHLESINGER    CRWall Street Journal   WC879 words   PD28 September 1998   SNThe Globe and Mail   SCGLOB   EDMetro   PGB7   LAEnglish   CY All material copyright Thomson Canada Limited or its licensors. All rights reserved. 
   LP Washington -- Ever since U.S. Federal Reserve Board chairman Alan Greenspan broadly hinted last week at an interest rate cut, markets have treated a reduction as a near certainty when the Fed's policy makers meet here tomorrow. 

 An easing of monetary policy would mark a swift and amazing turnaround in the central bank's fundamental economic outlook. For well over a year, the Fed's greatest concern has been inflation, not recession. As recently as July, Mr. Greenspan and his colleagues agreed their next move was most likely a rate increase. 
   TD Why would the Fed ease? 

 The new dynamic since the summer has been continued deterioration in Asia's economies, and the disease's spread to Russia and Latin America, which takes more than 15 per cent of U.S. exports. 

 There has been, so far, minimal concrete evidence of a slowdown in the United States, mainly a slump in manufacturing and a drop in corporate profits. But some early warning signs of deeper damage may be flashing, such as hints of eroding business and consumer confidence, especially as the stock market slumps. There are also fears of a looming credit contraction in the United States -- signalled by rising rates on junk bonds in recent weeks, and warnings by some banks of plans to curbing lending. "Issuance of equity, and of bonds by lower-rated corporations, has come virtually to a halt," Mr. Greenspan said in congressional testimony last week. 

 While growth through the rest of the 1998 is likely to remain solid, the outlook for 1999 has become less certain. 

 Would a rate cut be related to the near-collapse of the Long-Term Capital Management LP hedge fund? 

 There would seem to be at least an indirect link. When the New York Fed brokered the deal to bail out the fund last week, spokesman Peter Bakstansky said officials moved because "there was a potential for disruption in the marketplace." Market weakness and volatility of recent weeks could put more financial firms under stress. 

 Just as Mr. Greenspan promised, after the 1987 stock crash, to provide the economy with sufficient liquidity, a rate cut could take some pressure off the market's weakest links. 

 How big would a rate cut be? 

 Usually, the Fed moves in increments of a quarter percentage point, which would put the federal funds rate, the rate banks charge one another, at 5.25 per cent. That would bring rates to early 1997 levels, before the Fed increased rates a quarter-point on inflation fears. 

 But many market participants are betting on a bigger cut, perhaps a half percentage point, anticipating Mr. Greenspan will want to make a significant statement about his concern for the world's economic frailties. 

 What impact would a rate cut have? 

 There would be some direct stimulus to the U.S. economy. "When interest rates go down, mortgages are cheaper, capital for investment to business people is cheaper, the purchase of durables by consumers on credit is cheaper," Treasury Secretary Robert Rubin explained Friday on NBC-TV's Today show. "And all of that . . . increases economic activity." 

 Struggling Asian and Latin economies could also benefit from greater U.S. consumption of imports. A cut in U.S. interest rates would also increase somewhat the availability of credit worldwide, easing the global credit crunch. 

 Beyond any direct economic effect, the hope is for a huge psychological boost to investors, and that markets around the world would either rise or stabilize. Market stability could also reduce the possibility of other Long-Term Capital-type crises. "It could turn questionable loans into good loans, and prevent other questionable loans from becoming bad loans," says Princeton University economist Alan Blinder, a former Fed vice-chairman. 

 Is there any downside to a rate cut? 

 The Fed risks reinflating the stock market bubble Mr. Greenspan so famously worried about in his December, 1996, "irrational exuberance" speech. If fears of a slowdown turn out to be exaggerated, inflationary pressures would be fuelled. 

 But inflation remains so low -- consumer prices have risen at just a 1.6-per-cent annual rate -- and the Asian crisis is pushing down import and commodity prices so much, that the risk of some extra inflation seems less worrisome than it did a few months ago. 

 What's the risk of not easing? 

 Mr. Greenspan is a student of history, and he has studied with care the mistakes the Fed made before and during the Great Depression. No Fed official wants to be blamed for dithering while the world economy slid into recession -- or worse. Japan already has cut short-term rates to 0.25 per cent. Germany has made clear it isn't about to cut its rates. So the onus appears to be on the world's most powerful central bank, the Federal Reserve. 

 Besides, a rate cut tomorrow is so widely expected, that a failure to do so would likely jolt fragile markets, at least for the day. "The market would fall on its backside," says Dennis Hynes, managing director at R.W. Presspritch, a New York brokerage firm. "If the Fed doesn't cut rates, the market goes down 300 points." 
   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | m131 : Money Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPDUnited States | monetary policy | interest rates   ANDocument glob000020011205du9s01bo2  



 HD First Chicago Economist: Rate Cuts Could Be Very Temporary    WC215 words   PD28 September 1998   ET20:00   SNDow Jones News Service   SCDJ   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 1998, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP NEW YORK (Dow Jones)--A cut in interest rates by the Federal Reserve could be "very temporary," according to First Chicago NBD Corp.'s (FCN) deputy chief economist Diane Swonk. 

 "They (the Fed) are moving in to stabilize financial markets, not necessarily stimulate the U.S. economy. That means this ease, and whatever we may see over the next couple of months, may be very, very temporary," Swonk said in an interview with CNBC on Monday. 
   TD She said that a cut in interest rates now is probably the hardest policy-making decision ever made by the Fed. 

 "They are essentially easing in the face of what looks to be an economic rebound in the U.S., with declining unemployment and what could be wage push inflation down the road," Swonk explained. 

 Swonk sees a potential interest rate cut of 25 basis points. 

 She also expects to sees a 200,000 gain in non-farm payroll data and an unchanged unemployment rate of about 4.5% to be released later in the week. 


The economist also predicts that auto sales will lift slightly from
the depressed levels reported in July and August.
   - Nicole Ridgway; 201-938-5174



(END) DOW JONES NEWS  09-28-98



02:00 PM

   CObone : Bank One Corp | foteic : FTI Consulting Inc   INi814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m11 : Equity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nitv : Interview   REnamz : North America | usa : United States | usc : Midwest U.S. | usil : Illinois | usoh : Ohio   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument dj00000020010916du9s08t6n  



 HD U.S. Swaps: Spreads Unchanged To Slightly Firmer Before FOMC    WC287 words   PD28 September 1998   ET23:56   SNCapital Markets Report   SCCM   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 1998, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP NEW YORK (Dow Jones)--Interest-rate swap spreads were unchanged to slightly firmer Monday, as most participants stayed on the sidelines ahead of the Federal Open Market Committee meeting Tuesday. 

 There was some mild curve flattening in quoted spreads as shorter tenors firmed more than most longer tenors. 
   TD But most of the meager activity seen Monday focused in five- and 10-year tenors, with a couple of five-year/10-year switches reported. 

 "Everybody's hanging out and waiting to see what (Tuesday) brings," said one trader, referring to the meeting of Federal Reserve policymakers. "Then some weird things could happen." 

 Market participants widely expect the FOMC to ease monetary policy Tuesday in order to provide liquidity to markets battered by recent global problems. 

 In a recent survey by Dow Jones Newswires and CNBC, 27 of 31 primary dealers of government securities forecast an interest-rate cut. 

 The 10-year swap spread inched 0.25 basis points higher Monday to a midmarket of 80.75 basis points, while the five-year spread rose 0.75 basis points to a midmarket of 75 basis points. 

 At the front end of the curve, the two-year spread firmed by 1.25 basis points to close at a midmarket of 52.5 basis points, while the three-year swap finished at 57.5 basis points, up almost one basis point. 

 Elsewhere, the seven-year swap was unchanged at 78 basis points. 


And the 30-year spread was quoted about one basis point firmer at 73.5
basis points.
-By Ross A. Snel; 201 938-2086; ross.snel@cor.dowjones.com



(END) Dow Jones Newswires  09-28-98



1756EDT

   RF4275   NSc17 : Funding/Capital | c172 : Corporate Debt Instruments | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m15 : Derivative Securities | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument cm00000020010916du9s029zm  



 HD U.S. Agencies: Slow Trades: Few Issues; High Redemptions    WC351 words   PD28 September 1998   ET22:35   SNCapital Markets Report   SCCM   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 1998, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP NEW YORK (Dow Jones)--It was wait and see time on the market for U.S. agency debt Monday, as most players sat on the sidelines ahead of Tuesday's meeting of the Federal Reserve's Open Market Committee. 

 Whether or not the Fed cuts rates or by how much, nobody wanted to get caught on the wrong side of the bet Monday, with the result being only light trading and 10 new deals for an aggregate $585 million. 
   TD In the meantime, Treasurys were off a bit in rangebound trading. The benchmark 30-year bond was down 17/32 by late afternoon, to yield 5.147%. 

 "This hasn't been a very volatile day in terms of trading or spreads," said Richard Gordon, director of agency and mortgage-backed securities at ABN AMRO Inc. 

 While some issues may have "tightened up a notch" against Treasurys, Gordon said, volume was very light as participants looked ahead to the FOMC meeting. 

 Of course, given the low interest rate environment and the current rush to redeem callable issues, much market attention is given to the effect the resultant cash infusions will have on spreads. 

 Today was no exception, with nearly $3 billion ($2.965 billion) of redemptions being announced by agencies. 

 The largest of these announcements revealed Fannie Mae's planned redemption of 15 issues worth a total $2.65 billion. These securities have coupons ranging from 5.53% to 6.08%. 

 Gordon said that numbers like this may be the key thing to watch over the coming months. 

 "The key thing about the agency market right now is that there's an awful lot over the next three months that is in the money," he said, referring to agency debt facing possible call as a "large percentage of the universe." 

 The large volume of probable calls "can either widen or tighten spreads, depending on whether its's done in an orderly fashion," said Gordon. 

 -Ed Zwirn; 201 938-2091; ed.zwirn@cor.dowjones.com 

 (END) Dow Jones Newswires  09-28-98 

 1635EDT 
   RF4122   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | e21 : Government Finance | e212 : Government Borrowing | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument cm00000020010916du9s029wy  



 HD =Economists/Fed Cut -2: 50-Basis Pt Cut Would Be Unusual    WC318 words   PD28 September 1998   ET21:09   SNCapital Markets Report   SCCM   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 1998, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP A cut of 50 basis points, or half a percentage point, in the Federal Funds rate would indicate the global contagion has put the Fed on its highest state of alert. The Fed hasn't made such a dramatic shift in interest-rate policy since the stock-market crash of 1987. Usually the Fed cuts rates in smaller increments to avoid shocking the markets, Wesbury said. But this time, as in 1987, the markets are already shocked, he said. 

 One indication is the $3.5 billion private-sector bailout of the hedge fund Long-Term Capital Management L.P. that was orchestrated by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York last week. The fund lost $2.3 billion in investments around the world during the first eight months of 1998, and the New York Fed said it intervened because the fund's collapse might have damaged the entire U.S. financial system. 
   TD A day before the bailout was announced, Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan sent his clearest signal yet that the central bank was poised to cut rates, saying the global contagion had "infected our markets as well" and caused disruptions in the flow of funds. 

 Wesbury said a 50-basis-point Fed rate cut will have "virtually no real economic effect" in the short term, although it will calm financial markets. It's unlikely to reignite inflation, he said, since deflationary pressures on the economy are greater than inflationary pressures. Nor will the cut spur U.S. banks to lend to crisis-hit countries. 


"But I do believe the stock market will rally," he said. "I also
believe it will bring credit spreads down, and take some of the tension
out of world markets."
-By Joseph Rebello; 202-862-9279; e-mail:
joseph.rebello@cor.dowjones.com



(END) Dow Jones Newswires  09-28-98



1509EDT

   RF4224   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument cm00000020010916du9s029tp  



 HD =Economists: Mkts Won't Be Happy With Quarter-Point Fed Cut    BY By Joseph Rebello    WC406 words   PD28 September 1998   ET20:26   SNCapital Markets Report   SCCM   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 1998, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP WASHINGTON (Dow Jones)--The Federal Reserve is expected to cut U.S. interest rates Tuesday for the first time in 32 months, bringing a long-awaited measure of relief to financial markets that have been roiled by a global economic contagion. 

 But analysts say the the relief could be short-lived unless the U.S. central bank also signals an intent to keep cutting. Most predict the Fed's policymaking Open Market Committee (FOMC) will vote to cut the key Federal Funds rate a quarter percentage point to 5.25%. Most also say that won't be enough to keep U.S. investors satisfied for long. 
   TD "Twenty-five basis points is not enough to alleviate deflationary pressures on the economy," said Brian Wesbury, an economist with Griffin, Kubik, Stephens & Thompson Inc. in Chicago. As a result "if they don't follow it up with further cuts, we'll find ourselves back in the same soup after a while." 

 A cut in the Funds rate would end 18 months of interest-rate inertia at the central bank that economists say has created the tightest U.S. monetary conditions in nine years. It would help allay market fears of an impending credit crunch in the U.S. that could halt the economy's eight-year expansion. 

 Economists say the Fed's willingness to make additional cuts could be reflected in a package of policy measures likely to be announced Tuesday. Most say a quarter-point cut in the Fed Funds rate is likely to be accompanied by a similar cut in the Discount Rate. The discount-rate cut would be largely symbolic, but it would signal a Fed tilt toward further cuts, said Jim Glassman, an economist with Chase Securities Inc. in New York. 

 Some economists say Fed should take stronger action immediately - by cutting the Funds rate half a percentage point to 5%. That would bring the Funds rate much closer in line with expectations in the U.S. bond markets, which call for the rate to fall a full percentage point by the middle of 1999. Without such a cut Tuesday, U.S. stock prices could fall, Wesbury said. 

 "Twenty-five basis points will be the difference between a good day and a bad day in the markets on Tuesday," he said. 

 (MORE) Dow Jones Newswires  09-28-98 

 1426EDT 
   RF4224   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument cm00000020010916du9s029si  



 HD U.S. Debt Futures Mixed As Market Awaits FOMC Meeting Tues    WC413 words   PD28 September 1998   ET17:27   SNCapital Markets Report   SCCM   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 1998, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP CHICAGO (Dow Jones)--Interest rate futures are mixed mid-morning Monday in quiet trading as the market awaits Tuesday's meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee. 

 Expectations are for at least a 25 basis-point cut in the Federal funds rate by the policy-making arm of the central bank. 
   TD (For more information on Treasurys see page 4041.) 

 Traders at the Chicago Board of Trade and the Chicago Mercantile Exchange said activity is relatively quiet. And will likely remain so unless there is a significant price movement that sends futures out of their existing ranges. 

 "Everybody's wedged and hedged going into tomorrow's meeting," said Rick Santelli, vice-president at Sanwa Futures, adding that most of that positioning was done last week. 

 He said a major point of interest Monday morning was the start of simultaneous electronic and open-outcry trading in Treasurys at the CBOT. The exchange's Project A system, which normally only operates after the futures pits close, is now operating simultaneously. Santelli said it is playing some havoc with technicians who are finding it difficult to trace the movement of prices in both locations. Volume early on was estimated around 21,000 contracts. 

 Otherwise, one trader at the CME said Goldman Sachs has sold about 4,000 one-year bundles, meaning they sold the first four Eurodollar futures contracts together. Paine Webber and J.P. Morgan have also been active in the options market, selling 10,000 each of the December 95.00/95.25 call spreads at 7 and 6.5 basis points. 

 "They're probably figuring 50 basis points by December is all we'll get," said one trader. 


There is some concern futures markets may sell-off Tuesday if the
Federal Reserve cuts rates only by 25 basis points. The December Fed
funds futures contract sees an average rate for the month of 5.0%, but
the December Eurodollar contract is calling for a funds rate as low as
45.75%. The rate is currently 5.5%.
Contract                       Price       Change
Sep Federal Funds             94.505      Dn 1.0 Bp
Mar 1999 Eurodollars          95.240      Unch
Dec 10-Years                  120-16      Up 2/32
Dec T-Bonds                   129-23      Dn 3/32
Mar 99 to Mar 00 Euro Spread  4.0 Vs 3.0
Michael McHugh (312)750-4142
   michael.mchugh@cor.dowjones.com



(END) Dow Jones Newswires  09-28-98



1127EDT

   RF4101   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m15 : Derivative Securities | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument cm00000020010916du9s029lv  
 Page 1 of 1      2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.


 

 Page 1      2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.

