 


 HD Tsys Seen Lower At NY Open, 30-Yr Down 19/32 In London    WC512 words   PD1 July 1999   ET13:30   SNCapital Markets Report   SCCM   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP LONDON (Dow Jones)--Treasurys are seen opening lower in New York and are falling in London midday Thursday as traders pocket profits after Wednesday's rally on the Federal Reserve's 25 basis point interest rate rise and shift of policy to neutral. 

 Also market participants now don't outrule another rate rise on strong economic fundamentals. 
   TD Although the Fed has shifted its bias to neutral from a tightening policy stance, which should boost Treasurys, some market observers said the central bank wants to keep its options open while waiting for more information on the economy, and conclude another rate hike might well be on the cards. 

 "The idea that this is great news was damped down, as the shift to neutral doesn't mean the Fed won't do anything," said Phyllis Reed, bond market strategist at Barclays Capital. 

 Also, the fact that the relief rally in bonds was upstaged by an even bigger rally in stock markets "is even more worrying," Reed said, as stocks are seen as hugely overvalued already. 

 The market Thursday is waiting for some critical numbers, the National Association of Purchasing Management's business outlook index and non-farm payroll figures early in the New York session. If they come in strong, it could keep the benchmark's yield above 6% again, Reed said. 

 Around 1100 GMT, the bellwether 30-year Treasury was at 89 17/32, down 19/32, to yield 6.01%. At the Chicago Board of Trade, the September bond futures contract was trading at 115-25, down 4/32 from the previous floor close. 

 Treasurys were slightly higher in Tokyo late Thursday, following a surge in New York overnight after the Federal Reserve's shifted its monetary policy bias. Overnight in New York, Treasurys rallied and the yield on the 30-year bond fell back below 6%. 

 "There has been a lot of short-covering - after all, the Fed's shift in bias was a surprise," said a dealer at a Japanese securities house. 

 But trading was subdued by the afternoon, as the market looks to the NAPM business outlook index due out later in the global session. Market participants are also awaiting June non-farm payroll data and unemployment rate figures to be released Friday. 


At 1105 GMT in London, the dollar was quoted at Y120.83, down from
Y121.23 late Wednesday in New York. The euro was at $1.0342, unchanged
from late New York.
   5 3/4%   2-year     100 10/32  dn   4/32  5.58%
   5 1/4%   5-year      98 03/32  dn   8/32  5.71%
   5 1/2%  10-year      97 14/32  dn  14/32  5.84%
   5 1/4%  30-year      89 17/32  dn  19/32  6.01%
   2-30-yr yield spread: 43 BPS vs 44 BPS
-By Karen Eriksen ;44 171 842 9318; karen.eriksen@dowjones.com
-0-      01/07/99 11-30G



(END) Dow Jones Newswires  07-01-99



0730EDT

   RF1079 4041 44460   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REeurz : Europe | namz : North America | uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | weurz : Western Europe   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument cm00000020010826dv71016c4  



 HD Treasury Lower On Data, Fed Reassessment; 30-Yr Dn 27/32    BY By Barbara Etzel    WC426 words   PD1 July 1999   ET20:00   SNCapital Markets Report   SCCM   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP NEW YORK (Dow Jones)--Treasurys have sustained strong losses as profit taking, losses in European bonds, economic data and a reassessment of the Federal Reserve's announcement on Wednesday have undermined the market. 

 At 1:45 p.m. EDT, the benchmark 30-year Treasury was down 27/32 from late Wednesday, at 89 9/32, to yield 6.03%. At the Chicago Board of Trade, the September bond futures contract was at 115-18, down 11/32. 
   TD Traders have been reassessing Wednesday's statement by the Federal Reserve that Fed had shifted to a neutral bias on interest rates. 

 "On reflection today, that's not really positive," said David Connors, manager of U.S. government securities trading at Credit Suisse First Boston. 

 In Wednesday's announcement, the Federal Reserve noted that it would be alert to the emergence, or potential emergence, of inflationary forces that could undermine economic growth. 

 "In reality, the bias is still to tighten even though the official bias has turned to neutral," said Connors. 

 On Wednesday, the Fed boosted its federal funds rate by 25 basis points while announcing that it was returning to a neutral bias. 

 Yet economic data has given the market more reason to focus on future interest rate hikes and to deemphasize the neutral bias. 

 The National Association of Purchasing Management released its composite index for June on Thursday morning, showing a level of 57.0, up from 55.2 in May and well above the median expectation of 54.5. 

 The NAPM's prices paid index was at 53.5 in June, versus 52.2 in May. The June level was its highest since October, 1997. 

 "It would appear that the manufacturing sector is doing very well, said Mike Moran, chief economist at Daiwa Securities America. 


Traders will keenly watch Friday's June non-farm payroll data which is
expected to show an increase of 200,000 jobs, up from May's 11,000 gain.
The unemployment rate is expected to drop to 4.2% from 4.3% in May.
   5 3/4%   2-year 100 10/32  dn   4/32   5.59%
   5 1/4%   5-year  98  1/32  dn  10/32   5.72%
   5 1/2%  10-year  97 13/32  dn  15/32   5.85%
   5 1/4%  30-year  89  9/32  dn  27/32   6.03%
   2-30-Yr Yield Spread: 44 BPS Vs 44 BPS



(MORE) Dow Jones Newswires  07-01-99



1400EDT

   RF1079 20715 4041   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia | namz : North America | nz : New Zealand | usa : United States   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument cm00000020010826dv7101548  



 HD =REPEAT:June NAPM Shows Stronger Growth, Price Pressure    BY By Brian Blackstone    WC523 words   PD1 July 1999   ET19:12   SNCapital Markets Report   SCCM   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP NEW YORK (Dow Jones)--Manufacturing data released Thursday point to very strong U.S. growth with a hint of emerging price pressures. 

 The National Association of Purchasing Management June index came in at 57, well above the break-even 50 level between expansion and contraction of activity. June's NAPM corresponds to annualized gross domestic product growth of 4.7%. In May, the NAPM index was 55.2. 
   TD That kind of growth rate would probably test the U.S. central banks patience for what many consider to be excessively strong economic growth. On Wednesday, the Federal Reserve nudged interest rates 25 basis points higher to take some of the steam out of the economy and choke off any emerging inflationary pressures. 

 For the manufacturing sector, which was hit hard by the economic and financial crisis that plagued overseas economies since late 1997, June's report showed the continuation, even acceleration, of a welcome turnaround. 

 "I think the manufacturing sector has to be very happy with what we're seeing," said Norbert Ore, chair of NAPM's business survey committee. 

 Along with the acceleration of manufacturing growth, prices purchasers pay for materials posted their second straight advance. The prices index was below 50 for well over a year prior to May. 

 "We're starting to see commodity-type products have pricing power," Ore added. 

 June readings on new orders and production suggest that there should be more growth in manufacturing ahead, Ore said. The production index increased four points in June to 63.0, while new orders increased to 61.7. 

 Sectors of the economy that have showed strength all year, particularly construction and automobiles, continued to contribute to overall manufacturing growth in June. Analysts have said it is unlikely the U.S. economy will slow much without a significant moderation in those sectors. 

 But Ore is unsure whether there's enough momentum to push the overall composite index to the 60-level later this summer. 

 "I'm not sure there's enough to support that type of index number," he said, adding that a 60 reading "would be awfully strong." 

 And Ore doesn't see Wednesday's 25-basis point interest rate hike cutting into the manufacturers' plans for capital investment. 

 "I don't think short-term rates have a real impact on capital spending plans," Ore said. Besides, there's enough capacity in the sector that firms probably won't embark on big capital spending plans. Instead, they'll try to squeeze more productivity out of existing capital and labor. 

 Meanwhile, improved conditions overseas pushed the export orders index to its fifth straight above-50 reading. Export improvement could also lead to further strength in overall economic growth. 


A widening trade gap sliced over two percentage points off of first
quarter GDP growth, and GDP grew 4.3% anyway. Without export weakness to
absorb excess domestic growth, consumer spending will have to slow even
more to bring overall growth rates down.
-By Brian Blackstone; 201-938-4156;
 brian.blackstone@dowjones.com



(END) Dow Jones Newswires  07-01-99



1312EDT

   RF4217   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument cm00000020010826dv710153h  



 HD =NAPM Shows Recovery From Global Economic Crisis    BY By Barbara Etzel    WC522 words   PD1 July 1999   ET18:58   SNCapital Markets Report   SCCM   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP NEW YORK (Dow Jones)--Manufacturing data released Thursday back up the notion that the global economy is nearing recovery from the Asian financial crisis. 

 But, while the Federal Reserve referred to an easing of the strain in the financial markets and a firming of economic activity in its statement on Wednesday, it still is too soon to tell what effect the ongoing global economic recovery will have on future interest rate policy. 
   TD The National Association of Purchasing Management data showed that New Orders, Export Orders and Prices Paid have climbed to their highest levels since the latter half of 1997. 

 "(The NAPM data) is consistent with the notion that there is a global economic recovery underway," said Paul Kasriel, chief U.S. economist at the Northern Trust Company. 

 Exports had taken one of the biggest hits from the global economic crisis. The Export Orders Index showed continued growth as well as a reversal in the decline that began in December, 1997, the NAPM said. 

 Exports were a major drag on the U.S. economy in 1998, Kasriel said. "With the strengthening in the Asian economies and even some of the European economies, I think we are seeing a revival in U.S. manufacturing." 

 The global financial crisis has helped to restrain inflationary pressures worldwide. However, the NAPM prices paid index reached its highest level since October 1997 at 53.5. That reading was above the pivotal 50 level for the second consecutive month. 

 While there has been a turnaround in the prices component, its is still well below the 1994 average of 72.4, so there still is room for more gains, Kasriel said. 

 "It looks as though we definitely have made a turn in commodity prices," said Kasriel. 

 New Orders also posted its highest level since July 1997. 

 "The drag from problems abroad is lessening," said Mike Moran, chief economist at Daiwa Securities America. 

 However, it is too early to draw conclusion about what the Federal Reserve will do in August or October, according to Moran. 

 "This type of report implies that the Fed is going to have to do more than a single 25-basis point move," he said. 

 On Wednesday the Federal Reserve raised the federal funds rate by 25 basis points, taking back one of the three rate cuts it had given in the fall of 1998 to guard against the ill effects of the global financial crisis. 

 The Federal Reserve faces a dilemma, said Kasriel. While the global economy is on the mend it is still fragile. If the U.S. economy slows, it could set the rest of the world back. 

 One of the important factors holding down U.S. inflation has been the weak global economy. With global demand beginning to return, commodity prices moving higher and domestic demand strong, inflation is possible, said Kasriel. 


"It seems to me that it is a recipe for an upward movement in core
inflation going forward," Kasriel said.
-By Barbara Etzel; 201-938-4425;
 barbara.etzel@dowjones.com



(END) Dow Jones Newswires  07-01-99



1258EDT

   RF4219   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument cm00000020010826dv7101534  



 SEInvestment   HDFrom panic into calmer waters   BYRobert Guy      WC1,021 words   PD1 July 1999   SNThe Australian Financial Review   SCAFNR   EDLate   PG60   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 1999. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.   
   LPTHE TURNING POINT

Although the new financial year will not see the same degree of volatility in bond and currency markets as in 1998-99 year , the future direction of US and domestic interest rates, a pick-up in global growth and concerns about inflation will provide more than enough excitement.
   TDPanic was the overwhelming theme of the first stanza of the 1998 financial year, as the deepening economic quagmire in Asia, a flight to quality away from emerging markets in the wake of the Russian debt default, the collapse of highly leveraged hedge funds and devaluations in Latin America weighed on the local currency.

Global financial institutions wasted no time in dumping assets that had any connection with the crisis in Asia and the downward spiral in commodity prices and that did not offer the security of US fixed interest.

A prime target was the Australian dollar which slumped to a record low of US55.77 CENTS in late August, falling victim to short selling by hedge funds and institutional selling.

Fears of a meltdown in the global financial system and a possible slowing in US growth led the US Federal Reserve to cut interest rate cuts three times over a seven-week period.

The world's central banks followed suit, delivering more than 100 decreases in interest rates, with the Reserve Bank of Australia making one 25 basis point cut to 4.75 per cent cut on December 2.

These rate cuts and the closing out of $US50 billion to $US60 billion of short positions helped lift the Aussie dollar to 61 CENTS by January.

From the beginning of January to late April, the $A remained largely range-bound between US 62 CENTS and US 64 CENTS, largely based on the benign outlook for commodity prices, before a surge in resource stocks and the prices of some commodities helped it soar to a high of US 67.47 CENTS .

Sentiment was buoyed in mid-May with the decision by credit rating agency Standard & Poor's to raise the country's sovereign debt rating one notch to AA+.

Mr Stephen Halmarick, bond and currency strategist with Salomon Smith Barney, said: "It was a great recovery in the Australian dollar, and is a reflection of how well the economy stood up to Asia.

" The Australian dollar recovered from a massively oversold position, with uprgrades to global growth helping sentiment towards the Australian dollar."

However, in the past few weeks, the likelihood of a 25 basis point rise in US interest rates today, resulting in a negative yield spread between the US and Australia, and enforced weakness in the Japanese yen, inspired by Bank of Japan selling, helped send the Aussie to drift sideways. .

Looking forward, currency analysts see the Australian dollar's fortunes remaining dependent on the outlook for world growth, the pricing of commodities and the country's current account deficit.

Consensus forecasts point to the Ausralian dollar trading at US 70 CENTS by December.

Mr Clifford Bennett, senior treasury strategist with BNP Australia, said: "I have yet to buy the commodity price story and until we see some pick-up in prices, it will be hard for the Aussie to move higher."

Mr Bennett said that investors who had taken long positions in the currency on the back of the recovery in global growth would become frustrated over ensuing weeks and months if the Australian dollar failed to move beyond the US 66.50 CENTS level.

Mr Bennett said there was the potential for the Australian dollar to move as low as US 61 CENTS by the end of the year.

Mr Craig James, chief economist with Colonial State Bank, said: "Over the second half of 1999, factors driving the Australian dollar higher clearly outweigh negative or restraining factors.

"Overall, firmer global growth and commensurate improvement in commodity prices are seen underpinning the Australian dollar in coming months together with expectation of tighter domestic monetary policy late in 1999," Mr James said.

The Australian bond market was the mirror image of the currency market throughout the 1998-99 financial year, with the fear of financial market collapse underpinning a bull market, while the process of global healing instigated in late 1998 ensured a

bear market during the first half of 1999.

Mr Bart Dowling, fixed interest strategist with Merrill Lynch, characterised the 1998 financial year as "extremely volatile."

The increased optimism for global growth filtering through the financial community and fears of a rise in inflation underwrote a rise in 10-year bond yields from 4.73 per cent in mid-December to 6.30 per cent at present.

This reversed the move towards bonds seen earlier in the financial year during the emerging market crisis.

With the US Federal Reserve clearly stating its intention to protect against inflation, US monetary policy will remain the focus of domestic bond analysts.

With most market analysts believing the Fed will raise interest rates at least once more and many believing that a full take-back of the three rate cuts in 1998 is likely upcoming economic data will be closely watched to help assess the timing of such moves.

Next week's Japanese Tankan survey and the US core CPI data for June, to be released in mid-July, are key economic data being closely watched.

If the Tankan shows continued improvement in the Japanese economy and consumer price inflation edges higher in the US, many believe the Fed will act swiftly to raise rates in order to dampen the inflationary threat and prolong the US economic expansion.

While most believe that local bond yields will drift higher in the short term, lower inflation and the low probability of the RBA raising rates will see them settle at about the 6 per cent level by December.

Analysts also see the spread between the domestic and US 10-year bondompressing to between zero and 20 basis points, underpinned by a better inflationary outlook than the US, a looser labour market, prudent fiscal policy and more potential upgrades to Australia's credit rating.
   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News   REaustr : Australia | namz : North America | usa : United States | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania   PUBFairfax Media Management Pty Limited   ANDocument AFNR000020111227dv7100bnh  



 HD Manufacturing Continued To Rebound In June, With Hint Of Inflation    WC1,088 words   PD1 July 1999   ET16:25   SNDow Jones Business News   SCDJON   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- Manufacturing data released Thursday pointed to strong U.S. growth with a hint of emerging price pressures, introducing new uncertainty over whether the Federal Reserve might again raise interest rates to keep inflation at bay. 

 The National Association of Purchasing Management's June composite index rose unexpectedly to 57.0 from 55.2 in May, showing growth continued in the once-beleaguered manufacturing sector for the fifth consecutive month. 
   TD Analysts were looking for a dip to a 54.5 reading. A reading above 50 indicates an expansion in activity; a reading below 50 indicates a contraction. 

 NAPM, which is an association of manufacturing companies' purchasing executives, said the growth in its June composite index corresponds to a 4.7% rate of growth in gross domestic product, a robust pace that would cause the central bank to worry that the economy is overheating. 

 In an alarming note, NAPM's prices paid index moved to its highest level since October 1997. The index came in at 53.5 in June, up from 52.2 in May. As recently as December 1998, the index was at 31.1, indicating a strong acceleration in prices over the past six months. 

 Fed officials and analysts are watching pricing levels closely to detect any emerging signs of inflation, especially after the Fed Wednesday raised short-term interest rates by a quarter point to prevent any buildup of price pressures in the booming economy. The Fed also suggested yesterday that it might not need to raise rates further in the near term, but the strong NAPM data raised some questions about whether that will hold true. 

 The inflation-sensitive bond market was spooked by the report, especially the prices-paid data. Late Thursday, the Treasury's bellwether 30-year bond was down more than a half-point, while is yield, which moves inversely to price, was up to 6.00%. Earlier, the long bond was off more than a point, with its yield at 6.06%. 

 For the manufacturing sector, which was hit hard by the economic and financial crisis that plagued overseas economies since late 1997, June's report showed the continuation, even acceleration, of a welcome turnaround. 

 The sector "continued its recovery in June. Both production and new orders exhibited significant growth when compared to May," said Norbert Ore, chair of the National Association of Purchasing Management's Manufacturing Business Survey Committee. 

 "We're starting to see commodity-type products have pricing power," Ore added. 

 June readings on production and new orders suggest that there should be more growth in manufacturing ahead, he said. The production index increased four points in June to 63.0, while the new orders index jumped to 61.7% from 58.9%, reaching its highest level since July 1997. 

 Manufacturing employment grew for the second month, but a slower pace than previous, with NAPM's employment index registering a 51.9 reading against 53.5 in May. It was the second month that the reading came in above 50, indicating growth. 

 Inventory activity in June indicated a slower rate of reduction than reported in May. The inventories index for June rose to 44.1 from 42.2 in May, with a reading below 50 indicating an overall decline in the sector. This continues a long-term trend of inventory reduction by manufacturers, NAPM said. 

 Meanwhile, improved conditions overseas pushed the export orders index to its fifth straight above-50 reading, supporting the notion that the global economy is nearing recovery from the Asian financial crisis. Export improvement could also lead to further strength in overall economic growth. 

 Exports had taken one of the biggest hits from the global economic crisis, and were a major drag on the U.S. economy in 1998, helping to restrain inflationary pressures. A widening trade gap sliced over two percentage points off of first quarter GDP growth, and GDP grew 4.3% anyway. Without export weakness to absorb excess domestic growth, consumer spending will have to slow even more to bring overall growth rates down. 

 "The drag from problems abroad is lessening," said Mike Moran, chief economist at Daiwa Securities America. Although it is too early to draw conclusions about what the Fed will do at its policy meetings in August or October, he said, "this type of report implies that the Fed is going to have to do more than a single 25-basis point move." 

 The Fed again faces a policy dilemma, said Northern Trust Company economist Paul Kasriel. While the global economy is on the mend it is still fragile. If the U.S. economy slows, it could set the rest of the world back. 

 But with global demand beginning to return, commodity prices moving higher and domestic demand strong, inflation is possible, he said. 

 "It seems to me that it is a recipe for an upward movement in core inflation going forward," Kasriel said. 

 Sectors of the economy that have showed strength all year, particularly construction and automobiles, continued to contribute to overall manufacturing growth in June. Analysts have said it is unlikely the U.S. economy will slow much without a significant moderation in those sectors. 

 But NAPM's Ore is unsure whether there's enough momentum to push the overall composite index to the 60-level later this summer. 

 He also doesn't see Wednesday's quarter-point interest rate hike by the Fed cutting into the manufacturers' plans for capital investment. 

 In a separate report Thursday, the Commerce Department said U.S. construction spending dropped again in May as a slight contraction in investment in buildings and structures resulted in the first back-to-back decrease in more than two years. 

 The Commerce Department said total construction put in place slipped 0.9% in May to a seasonally adjusted $694.3 billion annual rate. Last month's decline came on the heels of a revised 2.0% decline in April, Commerce said. 

 The unexpected decrease in completed construction last month was broad-based and the result of a drop-off in both private and public investment. Analysts were expecting a rebound in the number of homes, streets and other construction begun in May. 

 Private construction was down 0.7% in May to a $541.8 billion rate. Public spending, meanwhile, also suffered last month, declining 1.5% for its third decline in a row. That hasn't happed since mid-1991. 

 Copyright (c) 1999 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved. 
   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument djon000020020329dv71030fy  



 HD Investor Capiello Sees Stk Rally Lasting Through Summer    WC214 words   PD1 July 1999   ET23:45   SNDow Jones News Service   SCDJ   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP NEW YORK (Dow Jones)--By raising interests by only 25 basis points, Frank Capiello, president of McCullough Andrews & Capiello, believes that the Federal Reserve has allayed the worst of investor fears, setting the stage for a stock market rally that will last through the summer. 

 "Good things are happening that make the summer rally pretty viable," Capiello told CNBC Thursday. 
   TD Capiello said a stronger dollar, particularly against certain European currencies, forecasts of bumper crops in the U.S., and strong earnings will help sustain the stock market. 

 He expects the Dow Jones Industrials to rise a "couple of hundred points." 

 Near the fall, when year-2000 worries and fears over yet another interest-rate hike resurface, the stock market may start to give up some of its gains. Capiello also said that "cash generation for redemption" purposes will put pressure on stocks in the fall. 

 Capiello doesn't recommend investing in cyclicals because he believes that they are "fully valued," and instead likes high-technology and bank stocks, including Chase Manhattan Corp. (CMB) and Intel Corp. (INTC). 


For investing abroad, Capiello favors Mexico and, to a lesser extent,
Japan.
   - By Zahida Hafeez; 201-938-5176



(END) DOW JONES NEWS  07-01-99



05:45 PM

   COintl : Intel Corporation   INi814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m11 : Equity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nitv : Interview   REnamz : North America | usa : United States | usca : California | use : Northeast U.S. | usny : New York | usw : Western U.S.   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument dj00000020010827dv71021wj  

HDNewscast: Fed's  interest rate  hike good for economic market   WC367 words   PD1 July 1999   SNNBC News: Today   SCTODA   LAEnglish   CY(c) Copyright 1999, NBC Universal Inc. All Rights Reserved.    
   LPANN CURRY, anchor:

Overseas stock markets were higher during the night after an interest rate hike by the Federal Reserve board. Stocks in Tokyo were almost--were up almost 2 percent. Prices were also higher in early trading in London.
   TDThe Fed is signalling that Wednesday's rate increase may be enough to keep inflation under control. The rate was raised a quarter point, making the cost of borrowing money, more expensive. NBC's chief financial correspondent Mike Jensen has details.

MIKE JENSEN reporting:

Unidentified Man: One. Smile.

JENSEN: With the clang of a bell in the press room, news of the Fed's quarter point increase flashes to hundreds of millions of borrowers, lenders and investors. Jim Mitchell, who farms 900 acres in Ohio, hears about the increase on his radio.

Unidentified Radio Announcer: It has raised its target for key interest rates by one quarter of a percent.

JENSEN: It's bad news for him because he'll have to pay an extra $68 a month on his loans. It's also bad for the 16 million Americans with variable rate mortgages or home equity loans. And for people who are looking to buy a house.

Lori Gehring gives a rate alert to the real estate brokers in her Atlanta office.

Ms. LORI GEHRING: It's a--the rate increase has already been built into our pricing currently.

JENSEN: Home mortgages that were going for 6.9 percent two months ago now expected to hit 8 percent by Labor Day. Credit cards that have variable rates were 15.4 percent rising to 16. So, does anyone benefit? Yes. Retirees like Mel and Terry Camper in Florida who may get a slightly higher rate on their CDs.

Ms. TERRY CAMPER: I have a great-grandson. I look forward to his schooling. It would help a bit.

JENSEN: Six month CD rates averaging 4.05 percent two months ago, could rise to 4.1. And if this one small increase by the Fed doesn't slow America's red hot economy down enough, they'll be more where that came from. Mike Jensen, NBC News, New York.
   NSntra : Transcript | e1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBBurrelle?? Information Services   ANDocument TODA000020120224dv7101grv  

HDNewscast: Fed's  interest rate  hike good for economic market      WC367 words   PD1 July 1999   SNNBC News: Today   SCTODA   LAEnglish   CY(c) Copyright 1999, NBC Universal Inc. All Rights Reserved.    
   LPANN CURRY, anchor:   

Overseas stock markets were higher during the night after an interest rate hike by the Federal Reserve board. Stocks in Tokyo were almost--were up almost 2 percent. Prices were also higher in early trading in London.   
   TDThe Fed is signalling that Wednesday's rate increase may be enough to keep inflation under control. The rate was raised a quarter point, making the cost of borrowing money, more expensive. NBC's chief financial correspondent Mike Jensen has details.   

MIKE JENSEN reporting:   

Unidentified Man: One. Smile.   

JENSEN: With the clang of a bell in the press room, news of the Fed's quarter point increase flashes to hundreds of millions of borrowers, lenders and investors. Jim Mitchell, who farms 900 acres in Ohio, hears about the increase on his radio.   

Unidentified Radio Announcer: It has raised its target for key interest rates by one quarter of a percent.   

JENSEN: It's bad news for him because he'll have to pay an extra $68 a month on his loans. It's also bad for the 16 million Americans with variable rate mortgages or home equity loans. And for people who are looking to buy a house.   

Lori Gehring gives a rate alert to the real estate brokers in her Atlanta office.   

Ms. LORI GEHRING: It's a--the rate increase has already been built into our pricing currently.   

JENSEN: Home mortgages that were going for 6.9 percent two months ago now expected to hit 8 percent by Labor Day. Credit cards that have variable rates were 15.4 percent rising to 16. So, does anyone benefit? Yes. Retirees like Mel and Terry Camper in Florida who may get a slightly higher rate on their CDs.   

Ms. TERRY CAMPER: I have a great-grandson. I look forward to his schooling. It would help a bit.   

JENSEN: Six month CD rates averaging 4.05 percent two months ago, could rise to 4.1. And if this one small increase by the Fed doesn't slow America's red hot economy down enough, they'll be more where that came from. Mike Jensen, NBC News, New York.   
   INi81501 : Credit Types/Services | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ntra : Transcript | e1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBBurrelle's Information Services   ANDocument TODA000020070819dv71003fo  

HD Federal Reserve  Turns Up Interest Rates Just A Notch    BY Dale Kasler    WC943 words   PD1 July 1999   SNKRTBN Knight-Ridder Tribune Business News: The Sacramento Bee - California   SCKRTBN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright (C) 1999 KRTBN Knight Ridder Tribune Business News; Source: World Reporter (TM)
   LP The Federal Reserve tried to cool off the red-hot U.S. economy Wednesday by raising interest rates for the first time in two years. But the move was so gentle, and the economy is so vibrant, that some experts wondered whether it will have much impact. 

 Following two days of discussions, the Fed said it was raising the federal funds rate -- the interest that banks must charge each other for overnight loans -- from 4.75 percent to 5 percent. The move represented an effort by the Fed, which remains ever-vigilant about inflation, to keep prices under control by curbing corporate and consumer spending. 
   TD The rate hike was widely expected, given recent public comments by Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan. 

 What surprised -- and delighted -- many businesspeople was that the Fed then suggested it might not raise rates again in the foreseeable future. 

 The suggestion sent stock prices soaring. It even caused a modest decline in some interest rates, which had risen in recent weeks in anticipation of the Fed's rate hike. 

 The almost jubilant reaction to the rate hike shows that Greenspan, by telegraphing his moves, can successfully slow the economy without causing "sudden panic in the financial markets," said chief economist Ted Gibson of the California Department of Finance. 

 Gibson said higher interest rates already have curtailed home sales and mortgage refinancing around the country, just as Greenspan wanted. Home sales in the United States fell 5.1 percent last month, the government reported Wednesday. 

 Yet Sung Won Sohn, chief economist at Wells Fargo & Co., said he wonders if Greenspan went far enough. 

 Sohn's reasoning is this: The most effective way to slow the economy is to engineer a stock market correction -- by putting a dent in consumer wealth and confidence. So far, obviously, that hasn't happened. On Wednesday the Dow Jones industrial average, which had been as many as 83 points lower until the Fed's announcement, wound up rising 155.45 points to close at 10,970.80. The Standard & Poor's 500 and Nasdaq composite index both rose to record closing levels. 

 "Rather than cooling, this might actually help economic growth, and that's not what Chairman Greenspan intended," Sohn said. 

 Sohn said he believes the Fed will raise rates again this year, even though Wednesday's announcement suggested otherwise. 

 The Fed said it had moved its policy directive, or bias, from raising rates to "neutral." In effect, the Fed said it isn't leaning toward further rate increases beyond the quarter-point hike. 

 The Fed said that while it remains "alert to the emergence, or potential emergency, of inflationary forces," it acknowledged that inflation appears to be contained because of increases in business productivity. Higher productivity allows businesses to raise salaries without raising prices. 

 The result of the Fed rate announcement and suggestion of no more hikes was widespread euphoria among stock and bond traders. "Everybody was expecting that this might mark the start of two, three increases," said economist John Mitchell at U.S. Bancorp in Portland. 

 Not only did stock prices jump, some interest rates actually fell. Rates on 30-year Treasury bonds dropped to 5.96 percent from 6.06 percent, for instance. 

 And mortgage rates, which had risen from about 6.8 percent to about 7.6 percent this year for 30-year fixed rate loans, may start heading back south. 

 "With the relief in the bond market, we could see mortgage rates ease," said Lynn Reaser, an economist with BankAmerica Corp. 

 Still, some borrowing rates are going up. BankAmerica raised its prime lending rate, a benchmark affecting all sorts of corporate and consumer loans, a quarter-point to 8 percent. 

 That could mean higher rates on home equity loans, car loans, credit cards and other short-term borrowing. 

 Yet in an era of falling unemployment, interest rate fluctuations actually may do very little to cool off the economy. Just before the Fed's announcement, the Conference Board reported that its index of consumer confidence rose for the eighth straight month. 

 As long as the stock market stays rosy, Americans will remain confident and spend money, most experts believe. "The stock market has made millionaires out of a lot of people," said Jim McCarthy of Legacy Capital Management Inc., a money-management firm in Roseville. 

 A recent UCLA study said stock market gains have increased Californians' spending by billions of dollars a year, with much of the money being poured into real estate. As a result, higher mortgage rates probably won't crush demand for housing. 

 "It doesn't mean the end of the boom," said Leslie Appleton-Young, chief economist at the California Association of Realtors. 

 Sacramento's robust economy -- which has driven unemployment to a record-low 3.9 percent -- is expected to keep home buyers active. There were signs of a slight slowdown in real estate activity in May, but that probably was caused by the region's construction trades labor shortage, not higher mortgage rates, said Greg Paquin of The Gregory Group, a Sacramento real estate information firm. 

 "Builders can't build 'em fast enough," he said. 

 "People still feel good about their jobs, their incomes are rising, and I don't think a quarter-point is going to make much of a difference in that," he said. 

 Likewise, car dealers shrugged off the potential impact of higher interest rates. People have been buying cars in droves lately in spite of higher rates, said Katina Rapton of Mel Rapton Honda in Sacramento. 

 Bee staff writers Loretta Kalb and Kevin Yamamura contributed to this report. 
   INi814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSc15 : Performance | c152 : Earnings Projections | c1521 : Analyst Comment/Recommendation | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | nanl : Analysis | ncat : Content Types   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPC6011   IPDEconomic Indicators | Economic News | Interest Rates | Comment & Analysis | General News | United States of America, Americas~US | Americas | North America | Pacific Rim | Federal_Reserve_USA | Federal Reserve Banks   ANDocument krtbn00020010828dv71016dv  

HD Interest Rate  Increase Gets Mixed Reactions in Stockton, Calif.    BY Carol McKay    WC595 words   PD1 July 1999   SNKRTBN Knight-Ridder Tribune Business News: The Record - Stockton, California   SCKRTBN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright (C) 1999 KRTBN Knight Ridder Tribune Business News; Source: World Reporter (TM)
   LP After the Federal Reserve Bank nudged short-term interest rates Wednesday, the stock market went crazy, investors wondered about the possiblity of further increases, and commercial banks pushed up the prime rate. 

 That was Wall Street. What about Main Street? 
   TD The answer? Depends on who you ask. 

 "It's kind of a nonevent," said Mark Plovnick, dean of the Eberhardt School of Business at University of the Pacific. 

 Because people have anticipated an increase for the past several weeks --and because even greater increases were anticipated by some --the "very modest move" should provide the money-minded with a sigh of relief. 

 "This is about as good as it gets," Plovnick said. "The environment should remain pretty stable. From the consumer point of view, whether it's their mortgages or car loans ... it's almost a zero impact." 

 In fact, the increase could accomplish what it set out to do and calm the U.S. economy, heading off inflationary pressures. 

 "It probably bodes well for the next six or seven months," said Paul Tatsch, associate professor of finance at Eberhardt. "A half-percentage point would have made monthly payments $30 to $40 more. It would surprise me to see a significant impact on regular people." 

 But not everyone agrees. 

 "I think it's a big deal. It's the same thing with gas prices. Little (increases) add up," said Lita Rodriguez, a Stockton resident who is concerned about the future impact on mortgage rates. "I want to buy a house not too long from now. With everything going up ... ," she said. 

 Even if the increase may mean little to most people, however, there is a portion of the population that could be hurt by the hike, even at just a quarter-point. 

 "It could have a ripple effect," said John Knight, a UOP finance and real estate associate professor. He described a possible "flurry of activity. You might see people who were on the fence (about making a big purchase) say to themselves, `Better act now before it goes up even more.' 

 There will, however, be a group of people, he added, that will have to delay "big-dollar decisions" because any rate increase -- no matter how small -- would be stifling. 

 "Are we going to see the economy come to an abrupt halt?" Knight laughed. "No." 

 Local commercial banks may run into trouble if they raise their prime rates, as Bank of America did just after the Fed announcement. 

 "Loan demand has not been very good," said Robert Kavanaugh, a director of Guaranty Federal Bank. "It seems like people are using their credit cards like crazy. But they're not borrowing from their bankers." For smaller banks to follow the lead of the larger banks would be counterproductive. 

 Douglass Eberhardt, president of the Bank of Stockton, agreed. 

 "We won't be changing our consumer rates tomorrow," he said just before going into a bank officials' meeting where rates were to be discussed. 

 The one thing most experts agree upon is the fact that making predictions about interest rates is an unwise thing to do. 

 "I have lived through markets in the past where we've seen an increase and it didn't affect (the real estate market)," said Lorrie Docter, broker and co-owner of Docter & Docter Realtors Inc. of Stockton. Docter, who heard the announcement on the radio Wednesday morning, said she's been watching rates rise and fall since she began in 1965. "We'll just have to wait and see." 
   INi814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPC6029   IPDEconomic News | Interest Rates | Economic Indicators | United States of America, Americas~US | Americas | North America | Pacific Rim | Commercial Banks NEC   ANDocument krtbn00020010828dv71016d3  

HD Effect of  Interest Rate  Increase on Inflation, Market Unclear    BY Michael Markowitz    WC778 words   PD1 July 1999   SNKRTBN Knight-Ridder Tribune Business News: The Record - Hackensack, N.J.   SCKRTBN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright (C) 1999 KRTBN Knight Ridder Tribune Business News; Source: World Reporter (TM)
   LP To understand why the Federal Reserve raised interest rates, take a look at a couple of numbers. 

 The first one is 0.6 percent. That, according to a Commerce Department report released Tuesday, is the rate consumer spending grew in May. It was even higher than the strong April rate of 0.5 percent. 
   TD The second number is 4.2 percent. That was the May unemployment rate, a 29-year low. 

 To politicians and business people, those numbers are signs of strong economic growth. But to the Fed, they are also danger signs. 

 Robust consumer spending could lead to higher prices. A tight job market could lead to higher wages. Together, that adds up to inflation, the wealth-destroying enemy that the Fed is determined to keep from resurfacing. 

 So by raising rates Wednesday a quarter of a point -- the first increase in 27 months -- the Fed hopes to perform a delicate task: slow down growth ever-so-slightly by making spending more expensive, thereby preventing inflation without causing the economy to crash to a halt. 

 In addition, the slower growth should dampen some of the exuberence on Wall Street, where spectacular price rises have created a "wealth effect," prompting people to spend their paper gains as if they were cash. 

 Did the Fed succeed? 

 Banks, as expected, immediately raised their prime rate from 7.75 percent to 8 percent, locking in the higher rate in time for the end of the second quarter Wednesday and theorectically curtailing some business and consumer borrowing for big-ticket items. 

 In reality, however, the move may not mean much. 

 Bankers don't expect loan applications to dry up, and economists said people aren't likly to put off buying houses and cars because of a quarter-point rate increase. 

 "You might see a change in loan applications for a day or two, but it will readjust itself," said Gerald H. Lipkin, chairman of Valley National Bancorp, based in Wayne. "You might see a slight change, but it's more symbolic." 

 And as for Wall Street, well, the Dow Jones Industrials rose about 200 points in the minutes after the Fed's 2:15 p.m. announcement, turning a losing day into a gainer mostly because the central bankers said they were adopting a "neutral" stance on the future, an indication they might not be hiking rates again when they meet next, in August. 

 In fact, so many people figured that Wednesday's rate increase would be the first in a series of quarter-point rises that they found the Fed's "neutral" pronouncement odd. 

 "The Fed did a very, very bizarre thing today," said Joel Naroff, president of Naroff Economic Advisors and chief economist for Commerce Bank of Cherry Hill. "If the Fed wants to slow things down in the stock market, 25 basis points isn't going to do it, and the move to neutral doesn't seem to make a lot of sense." 

 If any parts of the economy feel a squeeze because of the Fed's actions, it will be housing construction and some kinds of manufacturing, the sectors normally most sensitive to interest-rate shifts, said James Hughes, dean of the Edward J. Bloustein School of Plannning and Public Policy at Rutgers University in New Brunswick. 

 But even with the increase Wednesday, rates are lower than they were a year ago, when the Fed cut them because of fears the Asian economic crisis would dampen growth in the United States, and in many cases it will take months for the effects of the higher rates to filter through the economy. 

 "A quarter of a point is still relatively modest given the strength of the economy," Hughes said. "The overall impact on the economy will be a slight slowdown, but in most areas I don't think it will matter much." 

 If ordinary Americans do feel a pinch because of a slowdown in business spending and hiring, it will happen at the bottom of the economic ladder, Hughes said. At a time when the economic boom is just starting to filter down to the low-income, there is a real fear that those groups would be the first to feel a slowdown. 

 In general, though, Hughes thinks the hype surrounding the rate hike is out of proportion to its importance. 

 "The Fed is getting an incredible amount of attention because all of our other problems have been solved," he said. "There's no more Asian crisis. The Balkans War is over. There is no news. [Fed Chairman] Alan Greenspan is the best show in town right now." 
   INi814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSc15 : Performance | c152 : Earnings Projections | c1521 : Analyst Comment/Recommendation | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | nanl : Analysis | ncat : Content Types   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPC6011   IPDEconomic News | Inflation | Economic Indicators | Interest Rates | Comment & Analysis | General News | United States of America, Americas~US | Americas | North America | Pacific Rim | Federal_Reserve_USA | Federal Reserve Banks   ANDocument krtbn00020010828dv71016ck  

HD Mortgage Rates Not Expected to Change, Despite  Interest Rate  Increase    BY Teresa Burney    WC560 words   PD1 July 1999   SNKRTBN Knight-Ridder Tribune Business News: St. Petersburg Times - Florida   SCKRTBN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright (C) 1999 KRTBN Knight Ridder Tribune Business News; Source: World Reporter (TM)
   LP Borrowers may see many interest rates go up in the wake of the Federal Reserve's decision to raise rates. But people in the market for a home mortgage may not have much to worry about. 

 Mortgage interest rates may not climb much higher than they already have, if they climb at all, economists and mortgage brokers speculate. That's because mortgage rates began rising a few weeks ago -- 30-year fixed rates are up to about 7.75 percent -- after Fed chairman Alan Greenspan made hints about what was to come. 
   TD "It's already been built in," said David Lereah, economist for the Mortgage Bankers Association of America. 

 "Actually, I don't expect (the Fed's rate increase) to affect us too much more," said Alan Ashfield, president of Tri-Star Capital Corp. in Clearwater. 

 Some economists are even saying mortgage rates may have peaked, and that they'll soon drop. The National Association of Realtors' chief economist predicts the recent rise is temporary and that 30-year fixed rates will drop to 6 percent or 6.5 percent by the end of the year. 

 While others do not think rates will drop that much, they do not expect the rates to go much higher. 

 "I think 8 would be the ceiling," Lereah said. "I think there is a limit on how high they will go because there is really no inflation. The Fed's just taking out insurance against inflation." 

 Of course, that's only minimal good news for people who need a mortgage now, since the rate for a 30-year, fixed-rate mortgage already is at its highest rate in two years. That's a full percentage point higher than it was six months ago. 

 A 1-percentage-point increase raises the monthly cost of a $100,000 mortgage by about $78. That's enough to cut some low-end buyers out of the market, Lereah said. 

 "Eventually these higher rates have got to hurt," he said. "One full percentage point means there's 200,000 families that have been priced out of the market." 

 But it's not only the interest rate increase that may force some buyers out of the market. House prices across the country have been rising as homes have been selling fast -- and in some areas, for more than the asking price. 

 "I dare say a number of these people have been forced to chuck it for now," said Keith Gumbinger, of HSH Associates, a financial publisher that keeps track of mortgage trends and forecasts. 

 Applications for mortgages are down more than 7 percent from the same week last year, the Mortgage Bankers Association of America reported Wednesday. 

 Ashfield of Tri-Star Capital has seen business fall off about 50 percent in the past few weeks, but he attributes most of that drop to fewer applications for loan refinancings. Most home owners likely to refinance right now already have done so; others will wait for rates to fall again. 

 Still, home sales numbers remain strong, though they show some signs of cooling. Existing homes sales fell in May, but the pace remains 4.6 percent higher than a year ago. 

 "I think people who are going to buy houses are going to buy them no matter what," Ashfield said. 
   INi814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPC6011   IPDEconomic News | Interest Rates | Economic Indicators | Mortgages&Mortgage Rates | General News | Forecasts & Predictions | United States of America, Americas~US | Americas | North America | Pacific Rim | Federal_Reserve_USA | Federal Reserve Banks   ANDocument krtbn00020010828dv71016br  

HD Market Pleased by  Federal Reserve 's Modest Rate Hike    BY Gregg Fields    WC950 words   PD1 July 1999   SNKRTBN Knight-Ridder Tribune Business News: The Miami Herald - Florida   SCKRTBN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright (C) 1999 KRTBN Knight Ridder Tribune Business News; Source: World Reporter (TM)
   LP The Federal Reserve gave a slight boost to interest rates Wednesday and pledged not to do it again soon -- producing a euphoric stock market rally that posted several records and, curiously enough, possibly set the stage for lower mortgage rates for home buyers. 

 In further good news Wednesday, new data released by the government suggested that the economy is going to keep growing at its current near-breakneck pace for the foreseeable future. 
   TD "The way the market reacted, you would have thought the Fed cut rates," said Dave Orr, an economist for First Union and a longtime student of the Federal Reserve, the nation's central bank. 

 The reason Wall Street reacted so positively: It had feared that the Fed would do far more. 

 The Fed nudged the so-called federal funds rate up by a quarter of a percentage point, to 5 percent. Fed funds are what banks charge each other for overnight loans, and they are used as a benchmark for pricing a basket of common consumer borrowing, such as variable rate mortgages and credit cards. 

 With the fed funds up, the prime rate is expected to rise as well, to 8 percent from the current 7.75 percent. The prime is defined as what banks charge leading commercial customers but, in reality, it is a base against which many other loans are priced. 

 But analysts said that, as significant as what the Fed did, more significant was what it did not do. For one thing, it did not raise the discount rate, or what it charges banks when they borrow money short-term. 

 The Fed also did not say that it would consider more increases in the near future -- a shift from its recent comments that suggested a rate hike was coming. Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan has recently said several time that higher rates might be needed to tamp down economic growth and reduce inflationary risks. 

 But in a statement Wednesday, the Fed said it is adopting a neutral stance toward more rate hikes because there is scant evidence that tight labor markets and high growth is causing spiraling wages or other forms of upward price pressure. 

 "Labor markets have continued to tighten over recent quarters, but strengthening productivity growth has contained inflationary pressures," the Fed said in a statement. 

 Wall Street, which has been racked by jarring volatility in recent weeks over fears that the Fed would significantly tighten credit availability this year, roared its approval of the modest move. 

 The NASDAQ Composite Index, which is heavy with technology companies, rocketed up 44.30 points, or 1.7 percent, to close at an all-time record of 2,686.41. The Standard & Poor's 500 Index of large industrial and service companies also shattered its old record, to close at 1,372.82. 

 Although the Dow Jones Industrial Average did not set a record, it nevertheless erased a 54-point loss after the Fed made its announcement, at 2:15 p.m., to finish the day at 10,970.80, a gain of 155.45 points. 

 "Our strategist sees some weakness in early July, and then a much better market with more strength at the end of the year," said Ed Tavlin, a stock analyst with Fahnestock & Co. in Hallandale. 

 The Fed's actions also might actually drive down interest rate on the loans that millions of American families care most about: home mortgages. 

 Mortgages are heavily influenced by long-term government securities, whose interest rates are not controlled by the Fed but by investors who buy and sell in the open market. 

 Rates on long-term securities rise when the buyers fear that inflation is likely to break out, a phenomenon that occurred in recent weeks. 

 Those fears appear to have been significantly put to rest by the Fed on Wednesday. 

 The price of the bellwether 30-year bond rose $10.63 for every $1,000 in face value after the Fed announcement. The yield, which moves inversely to price, declined to 5.98 percent from more than 6 percent -- suggesting that mortgage rates could be set to ease as well. 

 "If the Fed barely boosted rates and said it no longer was biased toward increasing them, I would say that's good news," said Tom Murphy, a South Florida developer of ultra-luxury homes. 

 Although housing traditionally is one of the most interest-sensitive sectors of the economy, developers said today's buyers are less concerned about loan rates than in previous times. Rather, they are being persuaded to buy homes on the strength of low unemployment, strong gains in the stock market and an almost relentless rollout of positive economic forecasts. 

 "If you're not making money in this economy, you're in bad shape," said Oscar Barbara, a Miami developer of more-affordable housing, such as townhouses. "The economy is good, people have jobs and the stock market is going gangbusters." 

 Those good times seem virtually assured of continuing --particularly now that the Fed has signaled that it will not use its interest rate powers to ratchet down growth. 

 The Conference Board, a business research group in New York, said its widely watched Index of Leading Economic Indicators rose 0.3 percent in May. Because the index gauges activity three to six months in the future, analysts said the finding strongly suggests that the U.S. economic expansion will continue unfettered into next year. 

 "The leading indicators show the resilience and robustness of this expansion, which is poised to become the longest ever in early 2000," said Michael Boldin, director of business cycle research at the Conference Board. 
   INi814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPC6019   IPDInterest Rates | Economic Indicators | Economic News | United States of America, Americas~US | Americas | North America | Pacific Rim | Federal_Reserve_USA | Central Reserve Depository NEC   ANDocument krtbn00020010828dv710167c  

HD Rate Hike No Indication of Future Actions,  Federal Reserve  Says    BY Merrill Goozner    WC968 words   PD1 July 1999   SNKRTBN Knight-Ridder Tribune Business News: Chicago Tribune - Illinois   SCKRTBN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright (C) 1999 KRTBN Knight Ridder Tribune Business News; Source: World Reporter (TM)
   LP WASHINGTON--The Federal Reserve Board followed through Wednesday on its well-telegraphed intention to raise interest rates but surprised financial markets by leaving the future direction of interest rates up in the air. 

 The Federal Open Market Committee, led by Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan, raised the so-called federal-funds rate, which banks charge each other for overnight funds, a quarter of a percentage point, to 5 percent, in a bid to head off inflation. 
   TD It was its first rate increase since March 1997 and unwound one of the three quarter-point emergency rate cuts the Fed adopted last fall as global financial markets teetered on the brink of collapse. 

 But the Fed's policymaking committee issued an ambiguous statement about future rate actions at the end of its annual two-day meeting, saying it had "no predilection about near-term policy action." 

 Analysts seemed taken aback by the Fed's switch from a tightening bias to a neutral stance toward future rate hikes, because most Fed watchers had been predicting Wednesday's rate hike would be just the first of several over the next few months. The economy has been growing much faster than expected, unemployment is at its 29-year low at 4.3 percent and inflation has been running at a 3.3 percent rate this year, up from 1.6 percent for all of 1998. 

 Indeed, Greenspan just a few weeks ago seemed convinced that tight labor markets would inevitably unleash inflationary pressures, which the central bank is obligated to head off. During his most recent testimony on Capitol Hill, Greenspan said that economic growth greater than 3 percent was unsustainable. The economy grew 4.3 percent in the first quarter, and most economists estimate that it grew at a 3.5 to 4 percent rate in the second quarter, which ended Wednesday. 

 But Fed policymakers shifted gears during this week's meeting, once again turning their eyes toward the prices that people and businesses pay for goods and services as the bellwether for signs of an overheated economy. The most recent price report showed zero inflation, after a worrisome rise of 0.7 percent in April. 

 The statement said that "in the current dynamic environment, it must be especially alert to the emergence, or potential emergence, of inflationary forces that could undermine economic growth." 

 "Greenspan continually calls these audibles at the line of scrimmage," said Paul Kasriel, an economist at Chicago's Northern Trust Bank who is among those who had been predicting a series of rate hikes. "Few people believe a quarter-point increase will slow this economy to 3 percent, so he appears to be back looking for more evidence of inflation." 

 There will be plenty of new data in the six weeks before the Fed committee meets again, including the second-quarter growth rate and two more reports on unemployment and consumer prices. 

 The stock and bond markets surged on news that the Fed was switching to a neutral stance on future rate hikes. 

 The Dow Jones industrial average jumped nearly 200 points in the immediate wake of the Fed's 2:15 p.m. EDT announcement, moving from negative territory and finishing up 155.45 points, or 1.4 percent, at 10,970.80. 

 The rally was just as explosive in the bond market, where the benchmark 30-year Treasury bond jumped $12.81 per $1,000 in face value. That dropped its yield to 5.96 percent from 6.06 percent late Tuesday. 

 The immediate impact of the rate cut will be positive for consumers and a small negative for business. The Bank of America on Wednesday raised its prime rate, the interest rate offered its best corporate customers, to 8 percent from 7.75 percent. Other banks are expected to follow suit quickly. 

 But mortgage rates and consumer credit card rates may actually begin to fall, because they had been rising over the last several months in expectation that the Fed would be making several tightening moves. 

 "We'll see a quarter point drop in 30-year mortgage rates," said David Lereah, chief economist for the Mortgage Bankers Association. "You're going to see real strong home buying numbers in July and housing construction activity may begin picking up again." 

 The 30-year mortgage rate has risen nationally to about 7.7 percent in recent weeks. As a result, home buying and construction activity had been slowing. 

 With the Fed apparently no longer fixated on the idea that the economy is growing too quickly, Fed watchers will begin sifting through every economic report for signs that prices are rising beyond the comfort range. 

 For example, the Chicago Purchasing Managers report issued Wednesday showed manufacturing activity in the area was picking up, with the overall index rising to 60.0 in June from 57.9 in May. The price component of the index also climbed, with 57.2 percent of businesses reporting paying higher prices for goods, up from 52.5 percent in May. 

 But most analysts expect there will be few signs of wage inflation when the new unemployment report and hourly wage report come out Friday. "Workers still don't have a great deal of bargaining power," said Dean Baker, a labor economist at the Preamble Center. "They still feel relatively insecure compared to 10 years ago." 

 The combination of continued robust growth and higher prices for goods coming from recovering economies overseas could drive the inflation rate higher and force the Fed to raise interest rates later this year. 

 "The risks of inflation are building," said Diane Swonk, deputy chief economist at Bank One Corp. in Chicago. "A year from now we'll see rates significantly higher than they are today," she predicted. 
   INi814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPC6011   IPDInterest Rates | Economic Indicators | Economic News | United States of America, Americas~US | Americas | North America | Pacific Rim | Federal_Reserve_USA | Federal Reserve Banks   ANDocument krtbn00020010828dv710166q  



 HD Fed Lifts Rates, Turns Neutral for Future --- Markets Celebrate on Hopes Quarter-Point Increase Will Be Last for a While    BY By David Wessel    CRStaff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal   WC1,281 words   PD1 July 1999   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGA3   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)
   LP WASHINGTON -- The Federal Reserve lifted its key interest rate by one-fourth of a percentage point yesterday but thrilled financial markets by suggesting it might not raise rates again in the "near term." 

 Citing "the uncertain resolution . . . of conflicting forces in the economy going forward," the Fed's policy committee ended its two-day meeting with a consensus "that includes no predilection about near-term policy action," according to the Fed. 
   TD Although the Fed said it remains "especially alert to the emergence, or potential emergence, of inflationary forces," the "neutral" stance appears to reduce the likelihood of a rate rise at its Aug. 24 meeting. 

 Investors had feared the Fed might signal that more rate increases are on the way. When the Fed didn't do so, stock and bond markets cheered; usually, stocks and bonds slide when the Fed raises rates. The Dow Jones Industrial Average, which was down 50 points before the Fed issued its 157-word statement at 2:15 p.m. EDT, reversed course, ending the day at 10970.80, up 155.45 from Tuesday. That was the highest closing level on the industrials in six weeks. The yield on the 30-year Treasury bond fell to 5.959% from 6.06%. The dollar was mixed, falling against the euro and rising against the yen 

 Fed officials gave no hint that they were unhappy with the market reaction. But by sparking a market rally, the Fed, deliberately or not, added fuel to an economy that it has said was at risk of overheating. 

 The Fed said that "strengthening productivity growth has contained inflationary pressures" even as the unemployment rate has fallen to levels that make some inflation-fearing Fed officials uneasy. 

 The Fed described its decision to raise its target for the federal funds interest rate, at which banks lend to each other overnight, to 5% from 4.75% as undoing some of last fall's cuts in interest rates. 

 In three installments, the Fed cut rates by three-fourths of a percentage point because the global financial crisis was spilling over into U.S. financial markets. "Since then," the Fed said, "much of the financial strain has eased, foreign economies have firmed and economic activity in the U.S. has moved forward at a brisk pace." 

 The increase in the federal funds rates will push up other short-term interest rates in the U.S. economy. Several big banks promptly raised their prime lending rate, to which many business and home-equity credit lines are linked, to 8% from 7.75%. 

 Long-term interest rates, which influence mortgage rates and business borrowing costs, have already risen in anticipation of the Fed move and the possibility of another increase later. The Mortgage Bankers Association said yesterday that the effective rate on 30-year fixed-rate mortgages (including points) was 7.81% last week, up 0.4 percentage point from a year ago. 

 Until this year, the Fed announced interest-rate changes but didn't disclose its end-of-meeting stance. After its May meeting, the Fed made its first use of a new policy and said it wasn't raising rates but it was leaning in that direction. Some analysts observed that past rate increases were often followed by unannounced shifts to what is known as a "neutral bias," only to be followed by rate increases at subsequent meetings. 

 "The Fed's statement certainly leaves the door open to more hikes," said Ian Shepardson of High-Frequency Economics, a Valhalla, N.Y., economics firm; he expects another rate increase in August or October. Bruce Steinberg, Merrill Lynch & Co.'s top economist, said another rate increase is "certainly possible, but is not a sure thing" and depends on the pace of economic growth over the next couple of months. 

 "We're surprised," said James O'Sullivan of Morgan Guaranty Trust Co. "Effectively they've given a `buy' signal to the stock and bond markets." He is no longer as confident as he was that the Fed will lift rates in August or October. 

 By advertising the rate increase well in advance to minimize the risk of a sharp financial-market reaction, the Fed also allowed its critics to mobilize. The president of the AFL-CIO and the president of the National Association of Manufacturers have urged the Fed to leave rates alone. 

 The Fed's statement was welcomed in overseas markets, which might have been hurt if the Fed had signaled that this rate increase was the first of a series. A February 1994 rate rise, the first of several, led global investors to pull money out of emerging markets and put it in more attractive U.S. securities, adding to the Mexican financial crisis late that year. 

 Brian Gendreau, an emerging-markets analyst at Salomon Smith Barney, said global markets reacted in advance to the Fed move. Latin American stock markets, for instance, peaked just before the Fed's May 18 announcement that it was leaning toward higher rates. 

 Mexico, said Mr. Gendreau, is in better shape than it was five years ago: It is borrowing less and now has a freely floating exchange rate that should help absorb the shock of high U.S. rates. Argentina, however, fixes its currency to the dollar and will see interest rates rise at least as much as U.S. rates do, an unwelcome development for an economy already in recession. 

 In an interview, Mexican central banker Guillermo Ortiz said the Fed's decision to shift its stance is "a powerful signal that the balance between growth and inflation [in the U.S. economy] is better now." And, despite the negative effects of an increase in U.S. rates, that signal could end up improving conditions for Mexican borrowers, he said. The Mexican stock market gained 3.3% on the Fed announcement. Brazilian and Chilean markets also rose, but Argentina's declined. European and Asian stock markets were closed when the Fed made its announcement. 

 Analysts and government officials elsewhere shrugged off the impact of higher U.S. rates. "The Canadian economy is in the best shape it has been in more than a decade," and therefore its currency is less vulnerable to an increase in U.S. rates, said Ruth Getter, chief economist at Toronto Dominion Bank. (Higher rates in the U.S. tend to lift the value of a dollar against other currencies.) 

 In Thailand, the first victim of the 1997-99 global financial crisis, the baht has been steady and the economy has largely weaned itself off foreign borrowing. A one-quarter percentage point increase in U.S. rates "isn't significant enough" to lure money out of Thailand and put downward pressure on the baht, said Atchana Waiquamdee, the Bank of Thailand's chief economist. 

 The International Monetary Fund, in an annual review of the U.S. economy written last week but released yesterday, said improving economic conditions in the rest of the world mean that a "modest" Fed rate increase "would have a less damaging effect than it would have had earlier." 

 The IMF said Fed rate increases were needed "unless there is evidence that the strength of demand growth is abating," and cautioned that "waiting too long to act would risk having to raise rates more sharply later to stem a pickup in inflation." 

 Journal Link: For the full text of the Federal Reserve's Open Market Committee statement on interest rates, see The Wall Street Journal Interactive Edition at http://wsj.com
   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSc17 : Funding/Capital | c173 : Financing Agreements | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument j000000020010828dv7100hvj  



 HD Ford Backs Fed Decision To Up  Interest Rate  25 BPs >F GM    BY By Andrea Puchalsky    WC249 words   PD30 June 1999   ET20:58   SNDow Jones News Service   SCDJ   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP DETROIT (Dow Jones)--Ford Motor Co. (F), which is enjoying brisk new vehicle sales and rising profits as a result of a solid economy, said it's pleased with the Federal Reserve's decision to boost the interest rate by just a quarter-point and its decision to adopt a neutral bias going forward. 

 "The Ford position is 'This ain't too bad,"' said Ford spokesman George Pipas. 
   TD Pipas said the move could contribute to a "cooling off," of U.S. vehicle sales. But he quickly added "weakening is not an adjective I want to apply to the sales level," which is expected to yield 8.8 million vehicles sold in the first six months of 1999 once June sales are tallied. 

 The auto makers will report June and six-month sales results this week. DaimlerChrysler AG (DCX) will report its June U.S. vehicle sales Thursday followed by General Motors Corp. (GM) and Ford on Friday. 

 "Frankly, you have a hard time taking shots at the Federal Reserve for the way they have managed the economy over the past decade, and keeping inflation in check," Pipas said. 


"I think net/net, we view this as not a bad thing and from a long-term
standpoint it's probably a good thing," he added.
   - Andrea Puchalsky; 313-226-1251;
   andrea.puchalsky@wsj.com



(END) DOW JONES NEWS  06-30-99



02:58 PM

   COdamb : Daimler AG | frdmo : Ford Motor Company | gnmoc : General Motors Company   INi351 : Motor Vehicles | i35101 : Passenger Cars | i814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | iaut : Automobiles | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m11 : Equity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REeurz : Europe | gfr : Germany | namz : North America | usa : United States | usc : Midwest U.S. | usmi : Michigan | weurz : Western Europe   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument dj00000020010827dv6u01vx1  



 HD =REPEAT: Bonds Rally, Then Level Off After Fed Hike    WC656 words   PD30 June 1999   ET22:01   SNCapital Markets Report   SCCM   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP NEW YORK (Dow Jones)--The Federal Reserve gave the bond market what it expected Wednesday and put a cherry on top by dropping its bias in favor of higher rates. 

 The dollar, meanwhile, dropped against the single European currency and held near flat against the Japanese yen. 
   TD In an effort to contain inflationary pressures, the central bank delivered on forecasts by boosting its target for the Federal funds rate - the overnight bank lending rate - by a quarter percentage point to 5%, the first interest-rate increase in two years. The decision came at the conclusion of a regularly scheduled meeting of policy makers. 

 Investors and dealers were pleasantly surprised by the Fed's decision, announced in a statement from its policy makers, "to adopt a directive that includes no prediliction about near-term policy action." 

 In other words, the Fed isn't looking to boost rates again - at least not at this stage. 

 Prices rose across most bond asset classes, though the benchmark Treasury bond gave back some of the better-than-one point gain it made immediately after the Fed decision was announced at 2:15 p.m. EDT. 

 Corporate bond spreads ratcheted in about two to four basis points, and junk bond prices jumped around 1/2 point. Prices of asset-backed securities didn't move much, however. That sector hasn't seen much new issuance lately. 

 "The market is experiencing a relief rally because the Fed did not maintain its bias toward higher rates," said Michael Ryan, fixed-income strategest at PainWebber Securities. 

 "The language was softer than expected," added Joel Kent, economist at Lehman Brothers, in reference to the Fed's policy statement. "I think the market is viewing this as a positive, especially with the neutral bias." 

 At around 3:05 p.m. EDT, the 30-year Treasury bond was up 31/32 to 89 26/32, to yield 5.99%. 

 Meanwhile, the dollar's performance showed that by dropping its so-called "tightening" bias, the Fed may have removed some of the U.S. currency's upward momentum. 

 "People thought that if (the Fed) retained the tightening bias, it would create enough of an interest-rate differential to sink the euro," said Kathy Jones, currency analyst at Prudential Securities in New York. 

 The euro was quoted at $1.0343, up from $1.0301 just before the Fed announcement. 


     Underwriting Should Pick Up



While the Fed action didn't stem the dollar's losses against the euro,
securities dealers and investors clearly were pleased, and analysts said
the market's tone should improve now that uncertainty about Fed policy
has been lifted.



Underwriters, too, hope to rekindle business in the days ahead. Since
last month - when the Fed said it was leaning toward a rate hike - many
companies had to either downsize their bond offers or repackage them
with higher yields - or both - to draw investors.



"My belief is things will be better," said Greg Habeeb, bond fund
manager at Calvert Funds. "Taking the bias back to neutral will bring
some stability to the marketplace."



Among other bond classes, issuance of fixed-rate, asset-backed bonds
is expected to pick up. In the weeks leading up to the rate hike,
asset-backed investors were showing a preference for floating-rate
securities, which are defensive investments when rates are rising.



Bond markets abroad should also get a boost from the U.S. central
bank's action, economists said.



"What you're seeing in the U.S. market will be replicated across the
world (Thursday)," said Ramachandra Bhagavatula, international economist
at NatWest Capital Markets in New York, "because there aren't very many
local reasons, either in Japan or Europe, to look for an increase in
interest rates."



(By Jennifer Ablan, Michael Casey, Gene Colter, Barbara Etzel,
Stephanie Hoo, Betsy Stephens and Steven Vames)



(END) Dow Jones Newswires  06-30-99



1601EDT

   RF1140 4228   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument cm00000020010826dv6u0162s  



 HD Treasurys Down In Light Volume Ahead of FOMC;30-Yr -5/32    WC394 words   PD30 June 1999   ET20:00   SNCapital Markets Report   SCCM   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP NEW YORK (Dow Jones)--Treasurys are lower in thin trading as players remain on the sidelines ahead of the highly anticipated decision on interest rate policy due shortly. 

 At 1:45 p.m. EDT, the benchmark 30-year Treasury bond was down 5/32 from late Tuesday, at 88 22/32, to yield 6.08%. At the Chicago Board of Trade, the September bond futures contract was at 114-29, down 4/32. 
   TD The bond has pulled away from its daily lows as support levels have held. Futures traders reported some limited short covering. Still, volume has been very light head of the FOMC announcement on rates expected at about 2:15 p.m. EDT. 

 The vast majority of the market is anticipating that the Federal Reserve will raise interest rates 25 basis points. But what is much less clear is what the Federal Open Market Committee will say to the market about its action. 

 If the FOMC is unclear about the liklihood of future interest rate increases, then there is a possibility that Treasurys will have a relief rally. If however the FOMC is direct and gives the impression that more interest rate hikes are coming, then Treasurys may come under some pressure. 

 Already this morning there were more signs the economy remains healthy. A stronger-than-expected Purchasing Management Association of Chicago report showed the June index rising to 60 from 57.9 in May. 


That report introduced some weakness into the Treasury market as it
suggested that Thursday's National Association of Purchasing Management
index will be strong as well. That report, as well as Friday's June
non-farm payroll data will be crucial to expectations about the U.S.
economy's growth rate.
   5 3/4%   2-year 100 02/32  dn   2/32   5.72%
   5 1/4%   5-year  97 15/32  dn   5/32   5.85%
   5 1/2%  10-year  96 20/32  dn   7/32   5.96%
   5 1/4%  30-year  88 22/32  dn   5/32   6.08%
   2-30-Yr Yield Spread: 36 BPS Vs 39 BPS
   -By Barbara Etzel, 201-938-4425;
   barbara.etzel@dowjones.com
(Christine Marie Nielsen in Chicago also contributed to this report.)



(END) Dow Jones Newswires  06-30-99



1400EDT

   RF1079 20715 4041   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia | namz : North America | nz : New Zealand | usa : United States   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument cm00000020010826dv6u015yz  



 HD =Fed Watch: Forecasters Stick To Their Guns On Rates    WC698 words   PD1 July 1999   ET00:09   SNCapital Markets Report   SCCM   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP By Brian Blackstone 

 NEW YORK (Dow Jones)--The Federal Reserve's shift to a neutral policy stance will affect the timing, but not the extent, of future rate hikes, central bank watchers believe. 
   TD As widely expected, the Federal Reserve raised its target for short-term interest rates Wednesday by 25 basis points to 5% after policy makers concluded a two-day meeting. 

 A statement released after that meeting said the Fed had also chosen "to adopt a directive that includes no predilection about near-term policy action," another way of saying it dropped the bias toward higher rates it had adopted in May. 

 To a lot of Fed watchers, that means don't look for another rate increase at the next meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee in August. 

 But beyond that, the questions of whether and when the Fed will raise rates again remain open. Again, the answers depend on where forecasters stood before Wednesday's rate change. 

 "I haven't changed my big-picture view, but it does dampen some the forecast for August," said Daiwa Securities Chief Economist Michael Moran. 

 Prior to Wednesday, Moran had expected the Fed would follow the June move with another 25-basis-point hike in August. But he still expects the Federal funds target rate will finish 1999 at 5.25%. 

 Some Fed watchers say that if the central bank had seen an August tightening as a decent likelihood, it wouldn't have changed its bias. 

 If the Fed does hold its fire in August, it would leave only three meetings - Oct. 5, Nov. 16, and Dec. 21 - for the Fed to bump up rates more. One other element here: The central bank probably won't want to add to financial-market disruption associated with Y2K, so that could really just leave October as the last chance. 


       Giving Data Chance To Slow On Their Own



Anthony Karydakis, senior financial economist at Banc One Capital
Markets in Chicago, came in Wednesday thinking another rate increase in
August was a toss-up. Not anymore.



"Now it has to be October," he said. Like Daiwa's Moran, Karydakis
still thinks the funds rate will be 5.25% at the end of the year, as he
did prior to this week's meeting.



The Federal funds rate is the rate banks charge one another for
overnight loans. By setting a target for that rate, the Fed directly
influences interest rates. Many commercial banks already raised their
lending rates Wednesday after the Fed hiked its Fed funds target.



It appears the only thing that could change economists' longer-term
forecasts would be a noticeable slowdown in economic activity. Indeed,
by going to a neutral stance, Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan and his
cohorts may be giving economic data one more chance to show that the
economy's slowing on its own.



Some sectors of the economy, like the interest-rate sensitive housing
market, have shown signs of moderating from very robust levels earlier
this year. In May, new home sales fell 5% to an annual rate of 888,000.
Sales of pre-owned homes fell 4% that same month.



Those who had thought all along a single tightening move would be
enough were buoyed by the central bank's change in sentiment.



The Fed's "letting the economy peter out by itself," said Richard
Yamarone, senior economist at Argus Research in New York. He thinks Fed
policy makers will sit on their hands for the rest of the year.



But others say that although housing and consumer spending are bound
to slow, it won't be enough to satisfy the Fed, especially with foreign
demand likely to pick up this year.



"Consumer spending has moderated from Herculean to merely Olympian,"
said Ev Ehrlich, president of Washington, D.C.-based ESC Co., a
consulting firm.



Ehrlich, a former undersecretary at the Commerce Department, expects
economic data over the next couple of months will show enough strength
to justify 50 more basis points of tightening this year.
-By Brian Blackstone; 201-938-4156; brian.blackstone@dowjones.com



(END) Dow Jones Newswires  06-30-99



1809EDT

   RF1043 4043   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument cm00000020010826dv6u01660  



 HD =Bonds Rally, Then Level Off After Fed Hike; Dlr Flat    WC419 words   PD30 June 1999   ET21:23   SNCapital Markets Report   SCCM   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP NEW YORK (Dow Jones)--The Federal Reserve gave the bond market what it expected Wednesday and put a cherry on top by dropping its bias in favor of higher rates. 

 The dollar, meanwhile, dropped against the single European currency and held near flat against the Japanese yen. 
   TD In an effort to contain inflationary pressures, the central bank delivered on forecasts by boosting its target for the Federal funds rate - the overnight bank lending rate - by a quarter percentage point to 5%, the first interest-rate increase in two years. The decision came at the conclusion of a regularly scheduled meeting of policy makers. 

 Investors and dealers were pleasantly surprised by the Fed's decision, announced in a statement from its policy makers, "to adopt a directive that includes no prediliction about near-term policy action." 

 In other words, the Fed isn't looking to boost rates again - at least not at this stage. 

 Prices rose across most bond asset classes, though the benchmark Treasury bond gave back some of the better-than-one point gain it made immediately after the Fed decision was announced at 2:15 p.m. EDT. 

 Corporate bond spreads ratcheted in about two to four basis points, and junk bond prices jumped around 1/2 point. Prices of asset-backed securities didn't move much, however. That sector hasn't seen much new issuance lately. 

 "The market is experiencing a relief rally because the Fed did not maintain its bias toward higher rates," said Michael Ryan, fixed-income strategest at PainWebber Securities. 

 "The language was softer than expected," added Joel Kent, economist at Lehman Brothers, in reference to the Fed's policy statement. "I think the market is viewing this as a positive, especially with the neutral bias." 

 At around 3:05 p.m. EDT, the 30-year Treasury bond was up 31/32 to 89 26/32, to yield 5.99%. 

 The dollar, meanwhile, was off against the euro but little changed against the yen. By dropping its so-called "tightening" bias, the Fed may have removed some of the dollar's upward momentum. 

 "People thought that if (the Fed) retained the tightening bias, it would create enough of an interest-rate differential to sink the euro," said Kathy Jones, currency analyst at Prudential Securities in New York. 

 The euro was quoted at $1.0343, up from $1.0301 just before the Fed announcement. 

 (MORE) Dow Jones Newswires  06-30-99 

 1523EDT 
   RF1140 4228   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument cm00000020010826dv6u0161n  



 HD Quarter-End Buying Supports T-Bills; Market Awaits Fed    WC245 words   PD30 June 1999   ET17:58   SNCapital Markets Report   SCCM   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP NEW YORK (Dow Jones)--The Treasury bill market backed up a little late Wednesday morning as the market awaits the Federal Reserve's interest rate announcement expected at about 2:15 p.m. EDT. 

 Three-month bill rates rose one basis point to 4.72% Wednesday. The six-month bill rate was unchanged at 4.92%. The one-year bill was up one basis point at 4.92%. 
   TD But short-dated bills have held on to most of Tuesday's gains. The market remains supported by quarter-end buying as investors adjust their holdings, traders said. 

 But if, as expected, the Fed raises the overnight lending rate 25 basis points, bills should turn lower once the technical buying is over. 

 "The only way you can like bills" at present levels is if the central bank leaves rates unchanged, said one bill trader. 


In other money markets, the rate Japanese banks were paying for
one-month dollar-denominated LIBOR was at 5 1/8, up from 5 1/16 late
Tuesday. The comparable rate for European banks was also 5 1/8.
   3-month Bill (9/30)  4.72%   up 1.0 BP
   6-month Bill (12/30) 4.92%   unch
   1-Year Bill  (6/22)  4.92%   up 1.0 BP
   Federal Funds 5 7/8%; Overnight Repo Rate 4.90%
-By Brian Blackstone; 201-938-4156



(END) Dow Jones Newswires  06-30-99



1158EDT

   RF4191   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument cm00000020010826dv6u015wt  



 SEBUSINESS   HDWhat's up today     WC98 words   PD30 June 1999   SNSt. Louis Post-Dispatch   SCSLMO   EDEDITION: FIVE STAR LIFT   PGPAGE: C1   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 1999, St. Louis Post-Dispatch.  All Rights Reserved.  
   LPThe market is today again awaiting word from the Federal Reserve about an interest rate hike. The Fed continues a two-day meeting today and an announcement is expected. To the surprise of many investors, no such announcement was made Tuesday. A rate hike could mean a little more money for some savers and a little less for debtors.  

The Boeing Co. and machinists at plants in the Pacific Northwest and in Kansas are continuing negotiations. Machinists at Boeing's operations in the St. Louis area aren't part of the current negotiations.  
   COboeing : The Boeing Company   INi364 : Aerospace Products/Parts | i3640010 : Civil Aircraft | iaer : Aerospace/Defense   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusmo : Missouri | namz : North America | usa : United States | usc : Midwest U.S.   IPDLBIZ   PUBSt. Louis Post-Dispatch   ANDocument SLMO000020040605dv6u00neu  

HDNewscast:  Federal Reserve  announces  interest-rate  increase to help slow the booming US economy   WC902 words   PD30 June 1999   SNNBC News: Nightly News   SCNTLN   LAEnglish   CY(c) Copyright 1999, NBC Universal Inc. All Rights Reserved.    
   LPBRIAN WILLIAMS, anchor:

When the Federal Reserve moves, they can shake up the economy and rattle markets worldwide. Well, today, the Fed moved, but slowly, a small increase in interest rates. Not much shaking or rattling afterwards, but it will be felt in every American home, and before too long. They are just trying to let up on the throttle of a speeding economy. They are hoping this will work. We have two reports tonight on what this all means, beginning with NBC News chief financial correspondent Mike Jensen.
   TDMIKE JENSEN reporting:

News of the Fed's quarter-point increase flashes to hundreds of millions of borrowers, lenders and investors, sets off a wave of buying at securities exchanges like this in Chicago.

Unidentified Man: The tension got greater and greater and greater, and that's why we had this explosion.

JENSEN: The Dow shoots up 200 points, closing with a gain of 155. The NASDAQ up 44. Why did the Fed raise rates? Because the US economy is growing so fast, it could be headed for a burnout. Higher interest rates should slow it down by making it more expensive to borrow, a small dose of medicine now to keep the patient healthy in the months ahead.

Jim Mitchell, who farms 900 acres in Ohio, hears about the increase on his radio.

Unidentified Radio Announcer: By one-quarter of a percent.

Mr. JIM MITCHELL: Probably would translate into a $50 to $75 a month increase on--on the amount of money that we have borrowed at the present time.

JENSEN: Also bad for the 16 million Americans with variable-rate mortgages and home-equity loans, and for people looking to buy a house. Lori Gehring gives a rate alert to the real-estate brokers in her Atlanta office.

Ms. LORI GEHRING: Most people are locking in currently, in anticipation there may be future increases.

JENSEN: Home mortgages that were going for 6.9 percent two months ago, now expected to hit 8 percent by Labor Day.

Mr. BILL ANDERSON (Bankrate.com): Interest rates, particularly mortgages, have increased in the last two months substantially, and may continue to increase if economic expansion continues.

JENSEN: Credit cards that have variable rates were 15.4 percent, rising to 16. Interest payments on the national debt also going up, costing taxpayers an additional $5 billion a year. So does anyone benefit? Yes. Retirees like Mel and Terrie Kanfer in Florida, who may get a slightly higher rate on their CDs.

Ms. TERRIE KANFER: Oh, it always comes in handy.

JENSEN: Six-month CD rates, averaging 4.05 percent two months ago, could rise to 4.1. But for most Americans, like Jim and Carolyn Mitchell, today's rate increase will mean higher loan payments. And if this one small increase by the Fed doesn't slow America's red-hot economy down enough, there'll be more where that came from. Mike Jensen, NBC News, New York.

JIM AVILA reporting:

This is Jim Avila in Chicago. And that is the sound of an over-revved American economy.

Mr. DAVID SEIDERS (National Association Of Home Builders): It's red-hot. You know, a little cooling on the demand side, really not a bad thing for us.

AVILA: Money flowing through the hands of Americans so fast, frontline contractors say they can't handle the business.

Mr. OVED GALARZA: People are not sticking their money in the bank no more. They're basically investing in properties and cleaning them up.

AVILA: Chicago contractor Oved Galarza works 14 hours a day, often six days a week, and still his clients are on a waiting list.

Mr. GALARZA: You know, a week, two weeks, three weeks, sometimes maybe a month. And at that point they will not want to wait.

AVILA: It now takes an average four months to build a house, a full month longer than it did just a year ago, because builders are having trouble finding both labor and supplies. Americans built nearly a million and a half homes in May of this year, a record, up 15 percent over 1998. Demand so high, there's a shortage of construction materials. Prices jumping, drywall up 16 percent this year. Insulation, 11 1/2. Cement, four percent. Brick, up 3.4 percent. Even those willing to pay are frustrated.

Ms. JILL RIDDELL: We can't find anyone to do the work.

AVILA: Jill Riddell just wants her apartment painted, but calls to six contractors yield no help. Three don't even bother to call her back. Today, Jill and her tenants are painting themselves.

Ms. RIDDELL: I had no idea it was going to be that difficult to find somebody do something as simple as painting.

AVILA: And there's real concern the building frenzy leads to shabby work. Architect Douglas Farr says prices are 25- to 50 percent higher than they should be, because of a new phenomenon the industry calls "drive-by bidding."

Mr. DOUGLAS FARR: Now they just drive by, they sort of lick their finger, put it in the air, and give you a price.

AVILA: The sound of an American economy in danger of spinning out of control, exactly what the Federal Reserve hopes to stop with today's hike in interest rates. Jim Avila, NBC News, Chicago.
   COfed : Federal Reserve Board   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | ntra : Transcript | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter   REusa : United States | chico : Chicago | namz : North America | usc : Midwest U.S. | usil : Illinois   PUBBurrelle?? Information Services   ANDocument NTLN000020120223dv6u00r6w  



 SEInvestment - Shares   HDCautious wait for US rate move   BYAngus Grigg      WC548 words   PD30 June 1999   SNThe Australian Financial Review   SCAFNR   EDLate   PG51   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 1999. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.   
   LPEquities

A late rally by blue-chip industrials, saw the Australian sharemarket close marginally higher yesterday, with investors remaining cautious prior to Thursday's interest rate announcement in the US.
   TDThe All Ordinaries Index gained 1.2 points to 2991.3, after reaching 3002.1 in morning trade. The Dow Jones Industrial Average rallied 1 per cent, providing a lead for the local market and the Japanese Nikkei, which also gained 1 per cent, while the Hang Seng shed 0.5 per cent.

Mr John Banos, chief strategist with HSBC Securities, said investors want to see how the Federal Reserve moves before making any major asset allocation decisions.

The equities market can handle a 25 or 50 basis point rise in interest rates, he said, but the key factor will be if the Federal Reserve maintains its bias to tightening or reverts to a neutral bias.

Mr Greg Matthews, chief investment officer at Macquarie Investment Management said the bond market had remained cautious prior to the FOMC meeting, but the equity market had not.

"The equities market is largely ignoring the Federal Reserve's stance, feeling an increase in interests rates will be offset by an increase in profits due to better economic growth," he said.

A late rally in telecommunications and banking stocks, ensured a positive close for the market, with Telstra gaining 13 to $8.66, putting the telco's gains at 6.8 per cent in the past seven sessions.

Optus was among the heaviest traded stocks for the session, closing 9 higher at $3.46, as third ranked telco AAPT lost 16 to $4.72.

NAB was the best of the banks, rising 50 to $25.44, Westpac gained 1 to $10.02, while Commonwealth lost 24 to $24.24. Second tier bank, Macquarie was quiet, after its recent rally remaining virtually unchanged.

Newspaper publisher, Fairfax, was 15 stronger at $4.24, on news the group had formed a joint venture with US company, Classified Ventures Inc, to create the auction site, SOLD.com.

In the Resources sector, BHP was the strongest, putting on 20 to $17.80, while Rio Tinto fell 40 to $24.86.

A rise in aluminium and copper prices was largly ignored by the market, with the All Resources Index closing 0.3 per cent lower. Copper play, MIM was unchanged despite having 18 million shares traded, as was aluminium stock Comalco.

Mr Mark Jolley, an economist with Deutsche Bank said Federal Reserve Chairman Dr Alan Greenspan is likely to be most concerned with the inflation pressure provided by the rise in the base metal prices.

"The present rally in the base metals, running into an expected FOMC tightening, is a potent warning for interest rate markets. We are in a Fed tightening cycle and there are no guarantees that it will stop at 50 or 75 bps if base metals continue to rally," he said.

The building material index lost 2.4 per cent, with CSR down 14 to $4.44, Pioneer shed 16 to $3.91 and Boral fell 3 to $3.65.

News Corporation was lower for the second day, its ordinary script down 8 to $13.03 and its preference shares lost 10 to $11.70.
   NSmnonfr : Non-ferrous Metals | c1522 : Share Price Movement/Disruptions | m11 : Equity Markets | malum : Aluminum Markets | mcopp : Copper Markets | e1202 : Interest Rates | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m14 : Commodity Markets | m142 : Metals Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter   REaustr : Australia | usa : United States | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | namz : North America   PUBFairfax Media Management Pty Limited   ANDocument AFNR000020111227dv6u00bq8  

HDProfile: What expected  interest rate  increase could mean to one's wallet   WC663 words   PD30 June 1999   SNNBC News: Today   SCTODA   LAEnglish   CY(c) Copyright 1999, NBC Universal Inc. All Rights Reserved.    
   LPMATT LAUER, co-host:

On CLOSE UP this morning, interest rates. Today might just be a good day to lock in your mortgage rate or pay off your credit card debts. Federal Reserve is expected to raise interest rates a quarter of a percentage point today. CNBC's Ron Insana is watching the Fed closely.
   TDRon, good to see you. Welcome back.

RON INSANA reporting:

Thanks, Matt.

LAUER: In fact, everybody thinks this is going to happen. The economy's real strong, so why is it happening?

INSANA: Well, the Federal Reserve has to look nine to 12 months down the road to see if a very strong economy will produce inflation in about a year's time. And if the Fed thinks that's the case, it'll go ahead and raise interest rates today and maybe even tell Wall Street and main street that it's thinking about raising rates again come August.

LAUER: What you're talking about basically is the Fed has a couple of options here. They can say, A, this is a one-shot deal. How will that impact Wall Street?

INSANA: That'd be pretty good news. We think from the analysts we've spoken with that stocks and bonds would rally if the Fed said they're raising interest rates a quarter point and then plan to do nothing for a little while. That's the first option. The other is that they may say we'll raise it again in six weeks.

LAUER: All right. However, before I let you get to that other option...

INSANA: Yeah.

LAUER: ...what if they raise it one time, what should the little guy do? What should the average consumer do?

INSANA: Very little. A quarter-point increase in official interest rates doesn't do that much. To the average, let's say, credit card holder, it would increase debt payments on say $1,000 in debt by $50 a year. So that's $4 a month. Not too--not a reason to change strategies right now.

LAUER: Going back to what you talked about a second ago. If they say they are going to maintain a tightening bias...

INSANA: Yes.

LAUER: ...which is what you folks talk about...

INSANA: Yes.

LAUER: ...all the time, what does that mean?

INSANA: It means they're inclined to raise interest rates again if the economic numbers they see in the next six weeks tell them that the economy is still very strong. Which means the Fed, come August when it meets again, could raise interest rates by another quarter or another half percent.

LAUER: And Wall Street will react how to that kind of news?

INSANA: Maybe negatively then because that might tell Wall Street that the Fed is embarking on a series of interest rate hikes. And that's never good news for the stock market.

LAUER: And for the little guy, if that scenario takes place, you should lock in some interest rates right now?

INSANA: Absolutely. And start paying down some credit card debt because you'll be increasingly affected by those interest rate increases if it becomes part of a process rather than a one-shot deal.

LAUER: What does your--your gut tell you? What's going to happen?

INSANA: Most analysts expect the Fed to raise the quarter point and keep the tightening bias, say that they're inclined to raise interest rates going forward. The positive would--surprise would be if they took that bias away.

LAUER: But--so we're in for a little uncertainty in your...

INSANA: We'll know...

LAUER: ...future.

INSANA: ...2:15 Eastern time today.

LAUER: All right. Ron Insana. And by the way, you can keep track on the latest financial news all day long on CNBC, that's on cable. It's 7:11. Here's Katie.

KATIE COURIC, co-host:

Thank you, Matt.
   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | emort : Mortgage Rate | ntra : Transcript | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBBurrelle?? Information Services   ANDocument TODA000020120224dv6u01gqp  

HDProfile: What expected  interest rate  increase could mean to one's wallet      WC663 words   PD30 June 1999   SNNBC News: Today   SCTODA   LAEnglish   CY(c) Copyright 1999, NBC Universal Inc. All Rights Reserved.    
   LPMATT LAUER, co-host:   

On CLOSE UP this morning, interest rates. Today might just be a good day to lock in your mortgage rate or pay off your credit card debts. Federal Reserve is expected to raise interest rates a quarter of a percentage point today. CNBC's Ron Insana is watching the Fed closely.   
   TDRon, good to see you. Welcome back.   

RON INSANA reporting:   

Thanks, Matt.   

LAUER: In fact, everybody thinks this is going to happen. The economy's real strong, so why is it happening?   

INSANA: Well, the Federal Reserve has to look nine to 12 months down the road to see if a very strong economy will produce inflation in about a year's time. And if the Fed thinks that's the case, it'll go ahead and raise interest rates today and maybe even tell Wall Street and main street that it's thinking about raising rates again come August.   

LAUER: What you're talking about basically is the Fed has a couple of options here. They can say, A, this is a one-shot deal. How will that impact Wall Street?   

INSANA: That'd be pretty good news. We think from the analysts we've spoken with that stocks and bonds would rally if the Fed said they're raising interest rates a quarter point and then plan to do nothing for a little while. That's the first option. The other is that they may say we'll raise it again in six weeks.   

LAUER: All right. However, before I let you get to that other option...   

INSANA: Yeah.   

LAUER: ...what if they raise it one time, what should the little guy do? What should the average consumer do?   

INSANA: Very little. A quarter-point increase in official interest rates doesn't do that much. To the average, let's say, credit card holder, it would increase debt payments on say $1,000 in debt by $50 a year. So that's $4 a month. Not too--not a reason to change strategies right now.   

LAUER: Going back to what you talked about a second ago. If they say they are going to maintain a tightening bias...   

INSANA: Yes.   

LAUER: ...which is what you folks talk about...   

INSANA: Yes.   

LAUER: ...all the time, what does that mean?   

INSANA: It means they're inclined to raise interest rates again if the economic numbers they see in the next six weeks tell them that the economy is still very strong. Which means the Fed, come August when it meets again, could raise interest rates by another quarter or another half percent.   

LAUER: And Wall Street will react how to that kind of news?   

INSANA: Maybe negatively then because that might tell Wall Street that the Fed is embarking on a series of interest rate hikes. And that's never good news for the stock market.   

LAUER: And for the little guy, if that scenario takes place, you should lock in some interest rates right now?   

INSANA: Absolutely. And start paying down some credit card debt because you'll be increasingly affected by those interest rate increases if it becomes part of a process rather than a one-shot deal.   

LAUER: What does your--your gut tell you? What's going to happen?   

INSANA: Most analysts expect the Fed to raise the quarter point and keep the tightening bias, say that they're inclined to raise interest rates going forward. The positive would--surprise would be if they took that bias away.   

LAUER: But--so we're in for a little uncertainty in your...   

INSANA: We'll know...   

LAUER: ...future.   

INSANA: ...2:15 Eastern time today.   

LAUER: All right. Ron Insana. And by the way, you can keep track on the latest financial news all day long on CNBC, that's on cable. It's 7:11. Here's Katie.   

KATIE COURIC, co-host:   

Thank you, Matt.   
   NSntra : Transcript | e1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBBurrelle's Information Services   ANDocument TODA000020070819dv6u003ei  

HD Federal Reserve  Likely to Raise Interest Rates    BY Danielle Herubin    WC889 words   PD30 June 1999   SNKRTBN Knight-Ridder Tribune Business News: The Charlotte Observer - North Carolina   SCKRTBN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright (C) 1999 KRTBN Knight Ridder Tribune Business News; Source: World Reporter (TM)
   LP In an unusual consensus, economists and financial experts are in almost complete agreement that the Federal Reserve today will raise its key interest rate today by 1/4 of a percent. 

 The Fed may continue to raise rates -- in August and November to cool the economy. 
   TD But stores that sell large consumer goods such as cars may try to come up with special sales or rebates to counter the dampening effects of a higher cost loan. 

 Marcus Huffman, a salesman at BMW-Ducati Motorcycles of Charlotte, which is actually in Matthews, said sales have been strong, in part because BMW has been offering 3.9 percent loan rates, down from the usual 9.9 percent. 

 "You might have a guy really thinking about a motorcycle, and this is enough to push him over the edge," Huffman said. "If the rates are high, it does discourage some." 

 David Orr, chief economist at First Union, said he thinks one rate hike is not enough to do what the Fed wants to accomplish. 

 "They want to slow the growth of spending to where it matches the growth of consumer incomes," Orr said. 

 David M. Jones, chief economist for Aubrey G. Lanston & Co., a New York-based securities firm, said he thinks the Fed will raise the rate three times by \ point each before the end of the year, which will put rates where they were before last fall. 

 Fed policy-makers last raised the fed funds rate on March 25, 1997 -- a quarter-point increase to 5.5 percent. After holding rates steady for the next 18 months, the Fed lowered the federal funds target to 4.75 percent in three quarter-point steps on Sept. 29, Oct. 15 and Nov. 17 to counter fears of a global credit crisis. 

 "We don't know how high rates have to go" to get people to stop spending, Jones said. 

 Jones said each time the Fed raises its rate, there is a three-tier impact on interest rates charged by banks: one group moves ahead of the actual vote, one group moves immediately with the news, and another group rises later on, Jones said. 

 These "early" rates -- on fixed rate mortgages and the 30-year Treasury bond -- began taking off May 6, when Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan first began talking about tightening the economy in a Chicago speech. 

 Today and through the end of the week, Jones said, the immediate reaction of a Fed rate hike will be felt by anyone who borrows anything affected by the prime rate. The prime rate -- or the rate most commonly used for business customers with the best credit -- will move up immediately, usually mimicking the amount the Fed raises its rates. 

 Commercial lending is affected; it typically is the prime rate plus 1 or 2 percent. And variable rate mortgages tied to the prime rate or short-term rates such as the 1-year Treasury will go up right away, he said. 

 Rates on car loans, personal loans and bank credit cards typically will follow later, Jones said. 

 "They take a while before they follow," Jones said. "Banks just don't move them around as much. They tend to set those rates for a longer period." 

 However, rates on new gold cards have already been moving up, partly in anticipation of the Fed's move. 

 The effects spread from there. Consumers get leery of buying large items, such as houses, cars and boats, because they don't want higher monthly payments. Banks start making less in profits in this and other areas, which can threaten their stock price or cause them to raise fees to their customers. 

 "There are direct and tangible effects and indirect, mainly psychological ones," said James Grant, of Grant's Interest Rate Observer, a newsletter. "The direct effect is that the rise in the federal funds rate immediately imposes a rise in the cost of wholesale borrowing -- by that I mean borrowing by the kind of banks that fill the skyline in Charlotte. 

 "The credit markets in this country are themselves financed with borrowed money," he added. "It affects the profitability of banks and thrift institutions and brokerage firms and hedge funds." 

 J.W. Davis, president of MountainBank in Hendersonville, said he would advise consumers to "be a little more short-term in their investment right now." 

 "Don't go beyond about six months on any investment," Davis said. 

 UNC Charlotte economist John Connaughton said he doesn't expect a federal funds hike to noticeably slow the booming N.C. economy, which grew a remarkable 5 percent over inflation last year. 

 "When the the rate was 5{ percent a year ago, things were very, very good," he said. "There's no reason a 5, 5\ percent federal funds rate should have any impact on what we see here." 

 While most experts are saying the results of the hike will be calm, some on Wall Street have been grumbling that there is any rate hike at all. 

 "The main question people are asking me is, "Why are rates going up in a world in which there is so little inflation?" Grant said. "The answer is simple. People are borrowing because they find rates attractive. Rates are going up because they are perhaps too attractive." 
   INi814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPC6011   IPDEconomic News | Interest Rates | Economic Indicators | United States of America, Americas~US | Americas | North America | Pacific Rim | Federal_Reserve_USA | Federal Reserve Banks   ANDocument krtbn00020010828dv6u01609  

HD Study Finds Loan Interest Rates Have Been Down for Last Five Years    BY Donna De Marco    WC562 words   PD30 June 1999   SNKRTBN Knight-Ridder Tribune Business News: The Washington Times - Washington, D.C.   SCKRTBN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright (C) 1999 KRTBN Knight Ridder Tribune Business News; Source: World Reporter (TM)
   LP Consumers are paying lower interest rates on a variety of loans than they did five years ago, according to a study released yesterday. 

 The report, by the Consumer Federation of America and the Credit Union National Association, shows that both banks and credit unions have been offering lower rates on seven types of consumer loans since 1994. 
   TD "That's the good news for consumers," said Bill Hampel, chief economist for the Credit Union National Association. 

 The bad news is that the Federal Reserve today is widely expected to raise a key interest rate, which would prompt banks and credit unions to raise their lending rates. 

 The study also showed that banks are charging from 0.8 percent to 2.7 percent more for loans than credit unions, which credit unions say is significant but banks claim is a small difference. 

 "Across the board, consumers pay more for credit at banks than at credit unions," said Stephen Brobeck, executive director of the Consumer Federation of America. "This credit union difference reflects mainly the fact that the nonprofit cooperatives exist principally to serve their members." 

 Rick Bowman, chief financial officer at First Virginia Banks Inc., said the small difference between credit union loans and bank loans, is exactly that -- small. 

 "I've looked at other credit union rates and they are usually comparable with banks, but that's surprising," he said. "They should be significantly lower." First Virginia is an independent banking company based in Falls Church with 12 different banks, including seven banks with 307 offices in Virginia. 

 "They don't pay taxes and they have no shareholders," said Fritz Elmendorf, spokesman for the Consumer Bankers Association in Arlington. "Naturally, they can beat out (bank) loans." 

 Credit union officials, however, say the small difference is significant. For example, a household with $7,500 in credit-card debt would pay nearly $200 more a year to service the debt at banks than at credit unions, said Bill Hampel, chief economist at the Credit Union National Association. 

 "Cardholders could save more than $10 billion by shifting credit-card debt from banks to credit unions," Mr. Hampel said. 

 For credit-card consumer loans, bank rates average 15.74 percent, while credit union loan rates average 13.04 percent. According to the association, banks handle about $229 billion in credit card loans, and credit unions handle about $20 billion. 

 Loans for credit cards are the one category in which rates actually have increased in the last five years. In December 1994, credit union loans averaged 12.95 percent, while bank rates were at 18.15 percent. 

 Banks and credit unions have the most similar rates for 30-year, fixed-rate mortgages. Banks offer an average 7.24 percent rate, while rates on credit union loans average 7.16 percent. 

 In December 1994, credit union loans averaged 9.21 percent, while bank rates were at 9.11 percent. 

 The battle between credit unions and banks has grown from an industry competition to a full-fledged political war, after Congress last year passed the Credit Union Membership Access Act, which allowed credit unions' memberships to vastly expand. 

 "Everybody is competing to serve the customer with the best product," Mr. Elmendorf said. "Banks have a wider range of services. Credit unions have a smaller menu." 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPC8611   IPDInterest Rates | Economic Indicators | Economic News | United States of America, Americas~US | Americas | North America | Pacific Rim | Business Associations   ANDocument krtbn00020010828dv6u015ze  

HD Detroit Free Press Susan Tompor Column    BY Susan Tompor    WC606 words   PD30 June 1999   SNKRTBN Knight-Ridder Tribune Business News: Detroit Free Press - Michigan   SCKRTBN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright (C) 1999 KRTBN Knight Ridder Tribune Business News; Source: World Reporter (TM)
   LP QUIT WHINING AND TAKE JOY IN ECONOMY: Last saturday, I took my budding toddler shopping for his first pair of good shoes. And I met a smart mom whose clever approach can give us all some fiscal inspiration. 

 At a time when others might dwell on the outrageous $35 price tags common on baby shoes, this smart mom brought a camera. She not only bit the bullet and bought the shoes, she took pictures of 10-month-old Jake waddling around in his new, overpriced white shoes. 
   TD My first thought was what a smart lady. 

 My second thought was what a good way to look at the Federal Reserve's dreaded, interest rate hikes. 

 In other words, quit complaining and relish the moment. 

 If it's hard for you to make the connection between baby shoes and the Fed, think of baby steps. The Fed, which is expected to raise interest rates today, is likely to move cautiously. Watch for an expected rate hike of a quarter of a percentage point today and possibly two more rate hikes before the year is out. 

 Before you grumble, remember that the Fed lowered rates three times late last year. The federal funds rate, the rate banks charge each other for overnight loans, fell to 4.75 percent from 5.5 percent last year. 

 Even so, "this move just isn't going to kill the economy. They're just taking back what they gave us," said Diane Swonk, deputy chief economist for Bank One in Chicago. 

 Yes, the party is likely to slow down as people cut down on borrowing. Car sales and home sales can't be as strong as they were earlier in 1999. 

 But, and here's where the smart mom approach comes in handy, think about what a fantastic party it has been. 

 Thursday we can celebrate the 100-month anniversary of this economic expansion. It's been more than eight years since we've seen anything close to a recession. The record, post-World War II expansion was 106 months in the 1960s. 

 A truly amazing thought when you consider that roughly 20 years ago they called many Michigan residents "the Black Tags." Many of us packed our cars, with our black and white Michigan license plates, to look for work in other states. 

 Michigan's jobless rate peaked at 15.5 percent, on average, for 1982. 

 Now, Americans are enjoying the lowest jobless rate in 29 years. Michigan's annual average unemployment rate has been less than 5 percent since 1996. For the last year and a half, our monthly jobless rate has been 4 percent or lower. 

 To be sure, people are losing their jobs as companies close or merge. But many people can find new jobs in Michigan. On another shopping trip last weekend, I met a fellow who used to work for the old Crowley's at Lakeside Mall. Crowley, Milner & Co. went out of business earlier this year, and now this fellow sells women's shoes at the Easy Spirit store in the Somerset Collection. 

 "Everybody is employed who wants to be, pretty much," said Van Bussmann, corporate economist for DaimlerChrysler AG. 

 I'm not trying to sugar-coat a rate hike. Or sound like a mom who is telling us to think of starving children in China. 

 But too often we focus on a short-term pinch on our wallets when we should take the smart mom approach and step back to look at the big picture. 

 And the big picture, like little Jake, still looks pretty darn good. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gjob : Labor Issues   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPDInterest Rates | Economic Indicators | Economic News | Unemployment | General News | United States of America, Americas~US | Americas | North America | Pacific Rim | Michigan   ANDocument krtbn00020010828dv6u015xu  

HD Loan-Dependent Businesses Would Be First to Feel a  Federal Reserve  Hike    BY Gregg Fields    WC878 words   PD30 June 1999   SNKRTBN Knight-Ridder Tribune Business News: The Miami Herald - Florida   SCKRTBN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright (C) 1999 KRTBN Knight Ridder Tribune Business News; Source: World Reporter (TM)
   LP Basil Bernard knows what happens when interest rates inch higher. 

 "There's less spending, and all of a sudden, there's less buoyancy in the economy," says Bernard, owner of Apricot Office Supplies in Miami. "When the Fed starts creeping up, it affects what you owe. It's necessary to increase prices, and if the customer won't stand for it, he may not buy." 
   TD If forecasters are correct, today the Fed starts creeping up. At around 2:15 this afternoon, the Federal Reserve is expected to announce it is boosting short-term interest rates by one-quarter of one percentage point. It will be the Fed's first hike in interest rates in more than two years. More hikes may come in future months. 

 Lynn Reaser, chief economist for NationsBank Private Bank, said two huge Florida industries -- housing and car sales -- will probably feel a slowdown right away, by making mortgages and auto loans more expensive. But, she adds, any drop will be off of near-record levels. 

 But the most immediate impact likely will be felt by small business owners -- like Bernard-- who collectively form the backbone of the South Florida economy. Most immediately, it will raise the interest rate on the credit lines from banks that small business owners use to finance inventory and operating costs. 

 As borrowing becomes more expensive, small business owners must either watch their margins erode, scale back hiring and expansion, or attempt to somehow make their shops more productive. 

 Even so, small business owners say they're relatively optimistic that the Fed's expected rate hike won't be a devastating blow. 

 Credit the 1990s economic boom. After eight years, they say, they've winnowed their borrowing to a minimum and built up cushions of capital. Thus, higher interest rates aren't the harrowing prospect they once were. 

 The National Federation of Independent Business, a small-business interest group, recently found that only one-third of all small businesses are borrowing money regularly -- a historic low -- and typically they owe less than $50,000. 

 Furthermore, the technological revolution has meant that even small businesses can afford computer-age automation, which has made their employees more efficient, providing some breathing room when profit margins come under attack. 

 "Really, what we are is a high-performance business," said Larry Barfield, co-owner with his wife at Kings Bay Athletics in South Miami-Dade. "If you're not efficient, it wouldn't matter if money was free." 

 Barfield, who purchases $600,000 in goods each year, says his company typically pays two percentage points over the prime rate, which is currently 7.75 percent. But he adds: "We try not to have any line of credit." 

 Nevertheless, the relatively sanguine view of the Fed's expected hike could change if, as is typical, the Fed raises rates more than once. A sizable contingent of economists expect the Fed to raise rates perhaps three times by the end of the year, sending short-term rates up three-quarters of a percentage point. 

 The Fed controls the so-called discount rate, which is what banks are charged on money they borrow from the Fed. The discount rate is at 4.5 percent. The Fed also heavily influences the fed funds rates, which is what banks charge each other on short-term loans. Fed funds are currently at 4.75 percent. 

 The Fed is raising rates out of fear that the relentlessly strong U.S. economy is growing so fast that it will produce shortages of goods and labor, unleashing inflation. 

 Higher rates would reduce inflationary pressures. But it would do so by tamping down consumer spending -- something small business owners fear more than negligibly higher interest rates. 

 "The issue is, will they slow down the volume of customers coming through the door?" said Bill Dunkelberg, chief economist for the NFIB. "That seems to be the goal." 

 If rates were to rise sharply, by 1 percentage point or more, the economy would essentially come to a standstill, according to a recent survey of more than 3,000 chief financial officers across the country. The survey was conducted for the Financial Executives Institute by Duke University. 

 But barring such a sharp increase, most of the financial executives expect nothing more than a curtailment in earnings growth. 

 If there's an upside to the higher rates, say economists, it's that the Fed is acting before there's a problem, and at a time when the economy is strong enough to absorb them. There is no evidence of inflation in the current economy, and Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan has suggested his goal is trimming economic growth to 3 percent from the current 4 percent -- still a respectable performance. 

 By contrast, in the late 1970s, the Fed raised rates only after inflation was crippling the U.S. economy. Rates were hiked so high the country went into a steep recession and put many small businesses into bankruptcy. 

 "If the Fed doesn't do something to curb super strong consumer spending, we will see inflation," said Mark Vitner, an economist for First Union. "If they don't do something they risk falling behind the curve." 
   INi814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPC6011   IPDEconomic News | Interest Rates | Economic Indicators | Forecasts & Predictions | General News | United States of America, Americas~US | Americas | North America | Pacific Rim | Federal_Reserve_USA | Federal Reserve Banks   ANDocument krtbn00020010828dv6u015wq  

HD Financial Community Anticipates  Federal Reserve  Rate Hike    BY Danielle Herubin    WC929 words   PD30 June 1999   SNKRTBN Knight-Ridder Tribune Business News: The Charlotte Observer - North Carolina   SCKRTBN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright (C) 1999 KRTBN Knight Ridder Tribune Business News; Source: World Reporter (TM)
   LP In an unusual consensus, economists and financial experts are in almost complete agreement that the Federal Reserve today will raise its key interest rate today by 1/4 of a percent. 

 The Fed may continue to raise rates -- in August and November to cool the economy. 
   TD But stores that sell large consumer goods such as cars may try to come up with special sales or rebates to counter the dampening effects of a higher cost loan. 

 Marcus Huffman, a salesman at BMW-Ducati Motorcycles of Charlotte, which is actually in Matthews, said sales have been strong, in part because BMW has been offering 3.9 percent loan rates, down from the usual 9.9 percent. 

 "You might have a guy really thinking about a motorcycle, and this is enough to push him over the edge," Huffman said. "If the rates are high, it does discourage some." 

 David Orr, chief economist at First Union, said he thinks one rate hike is not enough to do what the Fed wants to accomplish. 

 "They want to slow the growth of spending to where it matches the growth of consumer incomes," Orr said. 

 David M. Jones, chief economist for Aubrey G. Lanston & Co., a New York-based securities firm, said he thinks the Fed will raise the rate three times by 1/4 point each before the end of the year, which will put rates where they were before last fall. 

 Fed policy-makers last raised the fed funds rate on March 25, 1997 -- a quarter-point increase to 5.5 percent. After holding rates steady for the next 18 months, the Fed lowered the federal funds target to 4.75 percent in three quarter-point steps on Sept. 29, Oct. 15 and Nov. 17 to counter fears of a global credit crisis. 

 "We don't know how high rates have to go" to get people to stop spending, Jones said. 

 Jones said each time the Fed raises its rate, there is a three-tier impact on interest rates charged by banks: one group moves ahead of the actual vote, one group moves immediately with the news, and another group rises later on, Jones said. 

 These "early" rates -- on fixed rate mortgages and the 30-year Treasury bond -- began taking off May 6, when Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan first began talking about tightening the economy in a Chicago speech. 

 Today and through the end of the week, Jones said, the immediate reaction of a Fed rate hike will be felt by anyone who borrows anything affected by the prime rate. The prime rate -- or the rate most commonly used for business customers with the best credit -- will move up immediately, usually mimicking the amount the Fed raises its rates. 

 Commercial lending is affected; it typically is the prime rate plus 1 or 2 percent. And variable rate mortgages tied to the prime rate or short-term rates such as the 1-year Treasury will go up right away, he said. 

 Rates on car loans, personal loans and bank credit cards typically will follow later, Jones said. 

 "They take a while before they follow," Jones said. "Banks just don't move them around as much. They tend to set those rates for a longer period." 

 However, rates on new gold cards have already been moving up, partly in anticipation of the Fed's move. 

 The effects spread from there. Consumers get leery of buying large items, such as houses, cars and boats, because they don't want higher monthly payments. Banks start making less in profits in this and other areas, which can threaten their stock price or cause them to raise fees to their customers. 

 "There are direct and tangible effects and indirect, mainly psychological ones," said James Grant, of Grant's Interest Rate Observer, a newsletter. "The direct effect is that the rise in the federal funds rate immediately imposes a rise in the cost of wholesale borrowing -- by that I mean borrowing by the kind of banks that fill the skyline in Charlotte. 

 "The credit markets in this country are themselves financed with borrowed money," he added. "It affects the profitability of banks and thrift institutions and brokerage firms and hedge funds." 

 J.W. Davis, president of MountainBank in Hendersonville, said he would advise consumers to "be a little more short-term in their investment right now." 

 "Don't go beyond about six months on any investment," Davis said. 

 UNC Charlotte economist John Connaughton said he doesn't expect a federal funds hike to noticeably slow the booming N.C. economy, which grew a remarkable 5 percent over inflation last year. 

 "When the the rate was 5 1/2 percent a year ago, things were very, very good," he said. "There's no reason a 5, 5 1/4 percent federal funds rate should have any impact on what we see here." 

 While most experts are saying the results of the hike will be calm, some on Wall Street have been grumbling that there is any rate hike at all. 

 "The main question people are asking me is, "Why are rates going up in a world in which there is so little inflation?" Grant said. "The answer is simple. People are borrowing because they find rates attractive. Rates are going up because they are perhaps too attractive." 

 CONSUMER RATES IN FLUX: The Federal Reserve doesn't announce its new interest rate target until today. But the interest rates affecting consumers every day have already shifted -- and not in lock-step. 

 CATEGORY 
   INi814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPC6019   IPDInterest Rates | Economic Indicators | Economic News | United States of America, Americas~US | Americas | North America | Pacific Rim | Federal_Reserve_USA | Central Reserve Depository NEC   ANDocument krtbn00020010828dv6u015w4  



 HD Treasurys Rally As Fed Boosts Rates But Returns To Neutral Bias    WC755 words   PD30 June 1999   ET14:46   SNDow Jones Business News   SCDJON   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- Treasurys prices rallied Wednesday, sending the long-bond's yield back below 6%, after the Federal Reserve raised a key short-term interest rate but returned to a neutral bias on monetary policy, indicating that a further rate boost may not be needed. 

 While the Federal Open Market Committee raised the federal-funds target rate by one-quarter percentage point to 5.00%, as expected, it surprised many in the market by adopting a neutral bias. The discount rate was left unchanged at 4.50%. The fed-funds rate is the rate banks charge each other for overnight loans, while the discount rate is the rate at which the Fed loans money to member banks. 
   TD Late in Wednesday's session, the yield on the bellwether 30-year Treasury was at 5.959%, down from 6.06% late Tuesday. The bond's price - which moves inversely to the yield - climbed 1 9/32 to 90 1/8. It had been down about 1/2 point earlier in the session after a strong Midwest manufacturing report. 

 Among other Treasurys, the 10-year note rose 1 1/32 at 97 28/32 to yield 5.78%. The two-year note gained 10/32 at 100 14/32 to yield 5.52%. Three-month bills slid seven basis basis points to 4.63, to yield 4.75%. 

 "Most traders thought that the evidence coming in was starting to shape up to another series of tightenings," said Gib Clark, manager of government trading at Zions First National Bank. 

 One trader said the market now has been placed into a wait-and-see mode through the summer as more economic data will be analyzed to see what the FOMC is likely to do on Aug. 24, when the committee next meets. 

 Wednesday's quarter-point boost in the fed-funds rate was deemed necessary by the FOMC as a pre-emptive strike against too-rapid economic growth. Real gross domestic product advanced 4.3% in the first quarter, after surging 6.0% in the last period of 1998. 

 Prior to Wednesday's tightening, the Fed hadn't raised interest rates since March 1997 and hadn't changed key rates since last November, when it made the final of three rate cuts aimed at shielding the U.S. economy from the global economic crisis. 

 In moving to its tightening bias in May, the Fed cited the domestic market recovery and "improved" foreign economic prospects. 

 However, at the conclusion of the latest FOMC meeting, the panel said, "Owing to the uncertain resolution of the balance of conflicting forces in the economy going forward, the FOMC has chosen to adopt a directive that includes no predilection about near-term policy action." 

 The FOMC said, however, it must remain "especially alert to the emergence, or potential emergence, of inflationary forces." 

 Wednesday's economic news pointed to a growing manufacturing sector. The Purchasing Management Association of Chicago said its index of area business activity rose to 60.0 in June on a seasonally adjusted basis from 57.9 in May. In May, the index fell from 63.3 in April. A reading above 50 indicates expansion in the manufacturing sector and a reading below 50 indicates a contraction. 

 The prices-paid index, the inflation component of the Chicago index jumped to 57.2 in June, its highest level in 18 months, from 52.5 last month. Also, the employment component rose to 55.1, its highest level in over a year. 

 The report comes ahead of Thursday's heavily anticipated national manufacturing report by the NAPM and Friday's report on June nonfarm payrolls and unemployment. The Chicago index "does point to a pretty firm NAPM" report, said Joseph Lavorgna, senior economist at Deutsche Bank Securities in New York. 

 Thirteen economists surveyed by Dow Jones and CNBC show a median forecast for June NAPM to slip to 54.5 from 55.2 in May, with expectations ranging from 52 to 56. 

 In other data Wednesday, the Conference Board said the U.S. economic expansion should last through 1999 as leading indicators show little evidence of cyclical imbalances that would jeopardize the economy's stability. 

 The Conference Board's composite index of leading indicators rose 0.3% in May to 107.4, more than reversing the 0.1% decline in April, according to preliminary estimates. The May index matched analysts' expectations. 

 Copyright (c) 1999 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument djon000020020329dv6u02yvf  



 HD U.S. Swaps: Spreads Out Again; Market Waits For Friday    WC492 words   PD29 June 1999   ET22:18   SNCapital Markets Report   SCCM   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP NEW YORK (Dow Jones)--Swap spreads continued to widen by up to a basis point and a half Tuesday ahead of the Federal Open Market Committee's expected announcement that it will raise rates. 

 While the announcement is expected Wednesday, sources said that not much will be done in the swaps market until after the employment report on Friday. 
   TD "After the employment numbers are given then the market will have a better sense of where rates will go," said a trader referring to how many rate hikes there will be. 

 The market has already priced in a 25-basis point increase, but what many want to know is how many - and how often - rate hikes the Federal Reserve is planning. 

 "People are just squaring up their books ahead of Alan and the gang. A lot are afraid of what will happen," said a trader referring to Alan Greenspan and other members of the Federal Reserve. 

 "The main concern is how the announcement is going to hit other markets - and seep into ours. Like, what swaps will do on the back of equities, or what if emerging markets get hit? It could be like last year's crisis," the trader said. 

 There was almost no action Tuesday except for a large seller of two-year spreads in the morning. The action was enough to push the two-year spread to close the furthest out of all the spreads at 46 basis points. 

 A dismal performance in two-year Treasurys didn't help the spread much either. However, traders said that even if the two-year Treasurys had done well, the spread may still have suffered due to the recent trend of swap spreads following Treasury yields rather than having a negative correlation. 

 Case in point, the long bond was up 12/32 on the day but the 30-year swap spread closed out a basis point at 79.75. The five- and 10-year spreads also closed out by a basis point despite not much happening in the correlating Treasurys. 

 Spreads may have been moved by Libor, as six-month Libor opened out by 16 basis points although it didn't cause a Eurodollar sell-off as expected, one trader said. 

 Spreads are expected to continue to head outward until the credit fears and interest rate hikes are resolved. Then, traders said, the corporate issuances will start burning up the pipeline, prompting some inward action. 

 "When the issues come out, swap spreads will come in dramatically," said one trader. 


Maturity   Swap Spread    Treasury Yield   Swap Rate*
 2 yr         46.00          5.677            6.1370
 5 yr         71.75          5.810            6.5275
10 yr         85.50          5.920            6.7750
30 yr         79.75          6.060            6.8575
 *Rates at 3 pm EDT
-By Paula Froelich; 201-938-2010;
 paula.froelich@dowjones.com



(END) Dow Jones Newswires  06-29-99



1618EDT

   RF4275   NSc17 : Funding/Capital | c172 : Corporate Debt Instruments | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m15 : Derivative Securities | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument cm00000020010826dv6t015gh  



 HD Ex-Fed Governor:Fincl Markets Are Prepared For Rate Hike    WC207 words   PD29 June 1999   ET17:50   SNDow Jones News Service   SCDJ   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP NEW YORK (Dow Jones)--Intense speculation within financial markets over the last few weeks about interest-rate tinkering by the Federal Reserve has actually paved the way for a rate hike, according to Susan Phillips, a former Federal Reserve governor. 

 During a CNBC interview Tuesday, she explained that financial markets have prepared themselves for a 25-basis-point hike by already building such a move into their pricings. That means any increase by the Fed will have less of an impact on stocks or bonds, making the decision to lift rates that much easier. 
   TD "I would argue that this is a time to go ahead and make the pre-emptive hike," Phillips said. "The markets are prepared; once the markets are prepared, you're not going to have a jolt." 


She said a rate increase would be designed to address international
economies, some of the more tattered of which might be on the verge of a
rebound. "As soon as other parts of the world start to come back, those
factors that have been holding down inflationary impulses will
disappear," Phillips said.
   - Scott Eden; 201-938-5173



(END) DOW JONES NEWS  06-29-99



11:50 AM

   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nitv : Interview   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument dj00000020010827dv6t01twz  



 HD =Fed Watchdog Group Gives Blessing For Rate Hike    BY By Brian Blackstone    WC331 words   PD29 June 1999   ET23:03   SNCapital Markets Report   SCCM   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP NEW YORK (Dow Jones)--The U.S. central bank got an endorsement Tuesday to raise interest rates from a group of academic and business economists that comments regularly on monetary policy. 

 Three members of the so-called "Shadow Open Market Committee" said in a roundtable discussion broadcast over the Internet that the Federal Reserve should start taking back last fall's monetary policy easings with a quarter-point hike at the conclusion of its two-day meeting Wednesday. 
   TD The Fed eventually will take back the 75 basis points in interest rate cuts it enacted last year, said Allan Meltzer, Carnegie Mellon University professor and SOMC founding member. Other participants included Banc of America Securities Chief Economist Mickey Levy and former Cleveland Fed president Lee Hoskins. 

 Bond and stock markets essentially have priced in an interest rate hike of 25 basis points and 28 of 29 primary dealers of U.S. government securities expect the Fed to boost its overnight lending rate to 5% from 4.75%. But there's considerable difference of opinion as to whether the Fed will raise rates further later in the year. 

 That the group endorsed a rate hike comes as no surprise. The SOMC, founded in 1973, is in the "monetarist" camp of economists who think that excessive money growth leads to inflation. 

 Indeed, SOMC members think the Fed has already waited too long in addressing what they see as impending inflationary pressures. They said that by lowering the funds rate, the Fed pumped too much money into the economy, fueling excessively strong domestic demand. 


It hasn't put pressures on prices yet, but "inflation always lags the
buildup in excess demand," said Meltzer. He said the Fed should aim to
bring money growth down to about 4% a year from its current 9% pace.
   -By Brian Blackstone; 201-938-4156; brian.blackstone@dowjones.com



(END) Dow Jones Newswires  06-29-99



1703EDT

   RF4224   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument cm00000020010826dv6t015hx  



 HD =Fed Watchdog Group Gives Blessing For Rate Hike    BY By Brian Blackstone    WC333 words   PD29 June 1999   ET23:02   SNCapital Markets Report   SCCM   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP NEW YORK (Dow Jones)--The U.S. central bank got an endorsement Tuesday to raise interest rates from a group of academic and business economists that comments regularly on monetary policy. 

 Three members of the so-called "Shadow Open Market Committee" said in a roundtable discussion broadcast over the Internet that the Federal Reserve should start taking back last fall's monetary policy easings with a quarter-point hike at the conclusion of its two-day meeting Wednesday. 
   TD "I think they will at the end take back" the 75 basis points in interest rate cuts the Fed enacted last year, said Allan Meltzer, Carnegie Mellon University professor and SOMC founding member. Other participants included Banc of America Securities Chief Economist Mickey Levy and former Cleveland Fed president Lee Hoskins. 

 The bond and stock markets have essentially priced in an interest rate hike, and 28 of 29 primary dealers of U.S. government securities expect the Fed to boost its overnight lending rate to 5% from 4.75%. But there's considerable difference of opinion as to whether the Fed will raise rates further later in the year. 

 That the group endorsed a rate hike comes as no surprise. The SOMC, founded in 1973, is in the "monetarist" camp of economists who think that excessive money growth leads to inflation. 

 Indeed, SOMC members think the Fed has already waited too long in addressing what they see as impending inflationary pressures. They said that by lowering the Fed funds rate, the Fed pumped too much money into the economy, fueling excessively strong domestic demand. 


It hasn't put pressures on prices yet, but "inflation always lags the
buildup in excess demand," said Meltzer. He said the Fed should aim to
bring money growth down to about 4% a year from its current 9% pace.
-By Brian Blackstone; 201-938-4156;
 brian.blackstone@dowjones.com



(END) Dow Jones Newswires  06-29-99



1702EDT

   RF4225   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument cm00000020010826dv6t015ht  



 HD Treasurys Mixed As Curve Flattens; 30-Yr Up 13/32    BY By Barbara Etzel    WC455 words   PD29 June 1999   ET22:07   SNCapital Markets Report   SCCM   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP NEW YORK (Dow Jones)--Treasurys ended Tuesday mixed, with gains in the 30-year bond outpacing the rest of the curve, causing the yield curve to flatten. 

 At 3:45 p.m. EDT, the benchmark 30-year Treasury was up 13/32 from late Monday, at 88 29/32, to yield 6.06%. At the Chicago Board of Trade, the September bond futures contract settled at 115-01, up 13/32. 
   TD Traders said short covering and squaring positions ahead of Wednesday's Federal Reserve announcement on interest rate policy was dominated the day's trading. Many traders have profited from losses by Treasurys in recent weeks and now are taking the opportunity to book profits ahead of the Fed's announcement and important data later in the week. 

 "In general I would attribute most of this to short covering," said Scott Graham, head trader at Prudential Securities, of the bond's gains. 

 "Once the Fed tightens it will not be much of a problem to restart shorts," said Graham. 

 The vast majority of the market is anticipating that the Federal Reserve will announce a 25-basis-point interest rate increase Wednesday at approximately 2:15 p.m. EDT. But the key factor will be what the Federal Reserve says in making its announcement. 

 As the bond gained, curve flattening action was seen. The occurs when traders sell the two-year note, which sends yields higher, and buy the bond, which sends yields lower - thereby producing a flatter curve. The spread between the two-year note and bond declined to 39 basis points, from 43 basis points late Monday. 

 Curve flattening typically occurs after the Federal Reserve tightens, said Joel Kent, senior market economist at Lehman Brothers. According to research by his firm, the curve flattened on each of the eight days that the Federal Reserve raised interest rates between 1994 and 1997. 

 It's possible that some were trying to get ahead of that move Tuesday, however, the day's thin volumes require caution in drawing too much of a conclusion from the day's action, warned Kent. 


"The fact that there is no inflation and the Fed is being preemptive
really does help the back end," said Kent.
   5 3/4%   2-year 100  4/32  dn   1/32   5.67%
   5 1/4%   5-year  97 21/32  up   2/32   5.81%
   5 1/2%  10-year  96 28/32  up   5/32   5.92%
   5 1/4%  30-year  88 29/32  up  13/32   6.06%
   2-30-Yr Yield Spread: 39 BPS Vs 43 BPS



(MORE) Dow Jones Newswires  06-29-99



1607EDT

   RF1079 20715 4041   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia | namz : North America | nz : New Zealand | usa : United States   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument cm00000020010826dv6t015fv  



 HD Short T-Bill Rates Fall, Retail Sidelined Ahead Of Fed    WC297 words   PD29 June 1999   ET20:07   SNCapital Markets Report   SCCM   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP NEW YORK (Dow Jones)--U.S. Treasury bill rates fell Tuesday, with three- and six-month securities posting the biggest price gains. 

 But traders say activity has been very thin, suggesting that a handful of trades may be moving prices in otherwise little volume. 
   TD Three-month bill rates fell three basis points to 4.71% Tuesday. The six-month bill rate also fell three basis points to 4.91. The one-year bill was unchanged at 4.89%. 

 Many investors remain sidelined ahead of Wednesday's interest rate announcement from the Federal Reserve. Traders say there's been little retail interest Tuesday and that some of the three- and six-month buying may be by speculative accounts betting that the Fed will limit itself to a single rate hike this year. 

 The Fed is widely expected to raise the fed funds target rate 25 basis points to 5% Wednesday. 

 "Twenty-five basis points is built in," said one trader. 

 The tone of the market could improve following Wednesday's rate announcement as investors balance their books ahead of month- and quarter-end. 

 "There could be some decent quarter end curve-related trades on top of the Fed moving," said a trader. 


In other money markets, the rate Japanese banks were paying for
one-month dollar-denominated LIBOR was at 5 1/16, unchanged from Monday.
The comparable rate for European banks was at 5 1/16, also unchanged.
   3-month Bill (9/30)  4.71%     dn 3.0 BP
   6-month Bill (12/30) 4.91%     dn 3.0 BP
   1-Year Bill  (6/22)  4.89%     unch
   Federal Funds 4 7/8%, Overnight Repo Rate 4.83%



(END) Dow Jones Newswires  06-29-99



1407EDT

   RF4191   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument cm00000020010826dv6t015d2  

HD Norfolk, Va., Area Lenders Watch for Boost in Interest Rates    BY Tom Shean    WC619 words   PD29 June 1999   SNKRTBN Knight-Ridder Tribune Business News: The Virginian-Pilot - Norfolk, Virginia   SCKRTBN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright (C) 1999 KRTBN Knight Ridder Tribune Business News; Source: World Reporter (TM)
   LP Amid warnings that the Federal Reserve may boost short-term interest rates this week, lenders in Hampton Roads have braced themselves for the outcome of the Fed's Open Market Committee today and Wednesday. 

 Rates for auto loans and other short-term credit have remained relatively stable in recent months, but the cost of 30-year home loans has been climbing because of concerns that the nation's economy may be overheating. That, in turn, has slowed the pace of residential sales in the region, some area lenders said. 
   TD Given the government's recent reports that inflation remains subdued, there's little justification for the Fed to boost rates and slow the economy, contends Louis L. Tourgee III, division vice president of CTX Mortgage in Virginia Beach. 

 "Everybody is trying to be the guy who predicts when the sky will fall," Tourgee said. 

 Investors in bonds, home mortgages and other long-term debt watch closely for any evidence of inflation because higher rates erode the value of their investments. 

 Their concerns have propelled long-term rates, including mortgage rates, in recent months. In Hampton Roads, the cost of a 30-year, fixed-rate home loan has climbed by as much as a half percentage point since late May. Several lenders in the region are charging between 7.5 percent and 7.75 percent for a 30-year, fixed-rate loan, compared with 7 percent to 7.25 percent a month ago. 

 Some of the bond market's anxiety about inflation ebbed Monday as investors accepted lower yields for long-term Treasury securities. The yield on the Treasury's 30-year bonds dropped to 6.09 percent on news that inflation appeared to be under control. 

 Last Friday, the yield on the 30-year Treasury bond hit 6.19 percent, its highest level since late 1997. Monday's yield was still up substantially from 5.64 percent a year ago. 

 Despite the rise in mortgage rates in recent months, some Hampton Roads homebuilders have continued to borrow and build, said Douglas Richard, Hampton Roads regional president of Community Bank in Virginia Beach. 

 The Virginia Association of Realtors reported last week that home sales in Hampton Roads rose 10 percent in May from the year-earlier total. However, the higher cost of financing a long-term, fixed-rate home loan apparently hampered residential sales during June. 

 "We've already seen an impact over the last two weeks," said Bill Anderson, supervising broker for Long & Foster Realty's office on 21st Street in Norfolk. 

 Higher rates, Anderson said, have prompted some buyers to hold off, while others have had to settle for less costly homes. 

 Like mortgage lenders in the area, Anderson was wary about predicting where the cost of financing a home loan is headed. 

 At Chartway Federal Credit Union, the volume of mortgage applications has fallen recently as the rate for its 30-year mortgage loans has climbed, said Phil Richards, vice president of strategic planning and marketing at the Virginia Beach-based credit union. 

 During the past month, the rate for Chartway's long-term, fixed-rate loan has edged up to 7.75 percent without any points, which can be used to reduce the stated interest rate. However, rates for shorter-term loans have remained relatively stable, fueling strong demand for Chartway's auto and personal loans, Richards said. 

 Since 1996, area mortgage lenders have been able to bolster their lending by refinancing existing home loans that were taken out at higher rates. But the pool of homeowners who were candidates for lower-cost loans has dwindled because most have refinanced, Tourgee of CTX said. 
   INi814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPC6162 | 6019   IPDInterest Rates | Economic Indicators | Economic News | Mortgages&Mortgage Rates | General News | United States of America, Americas~US | Americas | North America | Pacific Rim | Virginia | Federal_Reserve_USA | Mortgage Bankers & Correspondents, Central Reserve Depository NEC   ANDocument krtbn00020010828dv6t015tn  

HD Nation Braces for Expected Increase in Interest Rates    BY David Schwab    WC642 words   PD29 June 1999   SNKRTBN Knight-Ridder Tribune Business News: The Star-Ledger - Newark, New Jersey   SCKRTBN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright (C) 1999 KRTBN Knight Ridder Tribune Business News; Source: World Reporter (TM)
   LP The eyes of the financial world are turning from Wall Street to Washington. 

 The Federal Open Market Committee, which sets monetary policy for the Federal Reserve, meets today and tomorrow in a long anticipated session. 
   TD Most analysts expect the Fed to move to raise short-term interest rates by a quarter of a percentage point. Interest rate hikes tend to slow the economy and head off inflation, resulting in higher interest rates for corporations borrowing to expand as well as home buyers shopping for a mortgage. 

 The Fed's decision is expected to be announced tomorrow at about 2:15 p.m. 

 A bigger question, many analysts say, is whether more interest rate hikes will be needed to slow an economy that grew by a brisk 4.3 percent in the first quarter. The FOMC meets next on Aug. 24, and one key indicator will be Friday's employment report. 

 Yesterday's economic indicators convinced some analysts that further rate hikes are looming, as the Commerce Department reported consumer spending in May rose 0.6 percent, outpacing personal income, which rose 0.4 percent. Surging consumer spending boosts corporate profits but also drives inflation. 

 "It is going to take quite a lot to slow the consumer spending express," said Joel Naroff, president of Naroff Economic Advisors and chief economist for Cherry Hill-based Commerce Bank. 

 Sung Won Sohn, an economist with Wells Fargo & Co. in Minneapolis, said financial markets expect the federal funds rate to increase by .70 percent by the end of the year, which would probably mean three separate rate hikes. 

 The federal funds rate -- what banks charge each other for overnight loans -- is influenced by the target rate set by the FOMC. The target is now 4.75 percent, and the FOMC is expected to raise that to 5 percent. 

 On Wall Street, stocks rose in anticipation of the meeting, with some analysts saying investors were optimistic the Fed would not raise rates more than once. 

 The Dow Jones industrial average rose for a second day, gaining 102.59, or 1 percent, to 10,655.15. The Nasdaq composite index rose 49.79, or 2 percent, to 2,602.44. 

 Analysts will also be looking to see what, if anything, the Fed says if it raises interest rates. 

 At its meeting last month, the FOMC announced it had changed its so-called "bias" from neutral -- a stance neither favoring a rate increase or decrease -- to one favoring a rate increase. That signaled the Fed was prepared to raise rates if the economy did not slow on its own. 

 Greenspan, himself, dropped the biggest hints when he testified before a Congressional panel two weeks ago. 

 With the nation's unemployment rate at a 29-year low, Greenspan warned labor shortages threatened to push up wages and prices. There are few signs of inflation for now, and consumer prices were unchanged in May. But Greenspan said that it's easier to raise rates modestly to head inflation off in advance rather than wait until significant price increases appear. 

 FOMC meetings are normally cause for plenty of speculation. Analysts dissect speeches by Greenspan and other Fed officials and use computer models to try to predict what the Fed might do. 

 For the last two years, CNBC-TV, the financial news cable television station based in Fort Lee, has been using another method. 

 A camera crew films Greenspan arriving at the Fed's headquarters, racing across the street, briefcase in hand. A thin briefcase supposedly signals no rate hike while a thick one with papers sticking out indicates a change. 

 "It was 100 percent infallible for a long stretch, but at the last meeting they were wrong," said Martine Charles, a spokeswoman for CNBC. "Even analysts have been known to be wrong." 
   INi814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPC6019   IPDInterest Rates | Economic Indicators | Economic News | United States of America, Americas~US | Americas | North America | Pacific Rim | Federal_Reserve_USA | Central Reserve Depository NEC   ANDocument krtbn00020010828dv6t015q0  

HD Interest Rate  Increase to Have Little Effect on Most    BY Andy Dworkin    WC1,091 words   PD29 June 1999   SNKRTBN Knight-Ridder Tribune Business News: The Dallas Morning News - Texas   SCKRTBN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright (C) 1999 KRTBN Knight Ridder Tribune Business News; Source: World Reporter (TM)
   LPFederal Reserve officials start meeting Tuesday to discuss whether to raise interest rates, a move economists said would have surprisingly little effect on the average American's financial life. 

 That's because most traders in U.S. financial markets have already taken a rate hike into account, holding stock prices down somewhat and driving up the interest on things like bonds and fixed-rate mortgages. 
   TD "The last two months, the market has been expecting a 25 basis point rise," said Ron Speaker, manager of Janus' $1.3 billion Flexible Income bond fund. One hundred basis points equals one percentage point. "Then, in the last month, people said, 'Wait a minute. Is 25 going to be enough?'" 

 Traders then started acting like a 50 basis-point increase had been set, he said. 

 This advanced action marks a dramatic shift in how America's markets work, allowed by a new openness in the once top-secret Federal Reserve. The openness should make the economy more stable, and speed up corrections, economists said. 

 The group that is meeting, the Federal Reserve's Open Market Committee, is the central bank's main outlet for adjusting the amount of money in circulation in the United States -- a move accomplished by buying or selling masses of government bonds. That, in turn, moves short-term interest rates. 

 For years, this group operated in the shadowy fashion of Freemasons. When members acted to affect interest rates, they didn't tell anyone --bond traders and others just had to guess whether the Fed was acting by watching market trades. 

 In recent years, though, the Fed loosened its lips, releasing minutes of meetings. 

 Still, Fed rate changes caught markets by surprise. As recently as 1994, bond and stock prices tumbled after the Fed announced the first of seven rate hikes within a year. The Dow Jones industrial average, for example, logged its biggest drop in two years when the Fed raised rates by 25 basis points on Feb. 4, 1994. 

 Since then, everything has changed. 

 "We have plenty of warning now, which we didn't have before," said Daniel Laufenberg, a former Fed researcher who is now chief U.S. economist for American Express Financial Advisers. 

 The Fed's secrecy was "injecting volatility and uncertainty into the system," said Charles Plosser, dean of the Simon Business School at the University of Rochester. "They have become much more open, and that's good, I think. I would encourage them to be even more open" by publicly announcing its guidelines for when it will change rates. 

 While Fed governors haven't moved that far into the sunshine, economists said officials are practically advertising a rate hike this week. 

 At its May meeting, the open market committee announced it had a "bias" toward raising rates in the future. And on June 17, Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan told Congress he was worried about inflation increasing without a rate hike, and said the Fed should be "pre-emptive" to stop inflation. 

 That let interest rates jump this month before the Fed could say "frog." 

 Rates on the 30-year Treasury bond, a key indicator of future interest rates, have risen from about 5.6 percent in late April to close at 6.1 percent on Monday. 

 The interest levels on fixed-rate mortgages, which track alongside the 30-year bond, have also risen. After touching lows of 6.38 percent in late September, rates now stand at 7.63 percent -- "exactly where we were two years ago," said Gary Akright, president of Dominion Mortgage Corp. in Dallas. 

 Rates were at just 7 percent in late May, he said. 

 The stock market, too, has anticipated the increase. After a huge spring run-up, the Dow has been fairly flat since May, with brokers blaming an expected 25 basis point Fed hike. 

 "We've already taken that out, plus a little bit," said Dallas broker David Johnson. 

 That doesn't mean the Fed's actions this week will be totally without influence. Banks, for one, wait until after the Fed has acted to raise their prime rates -- the interest rates they charge their best customers. Those rates affect interest rates on floating-rate credit cards and home equity loans, said James Chessen, chief economist for the American Bankers Association. 

 And in the mortgage market, "every quarter of a point you go up, it eliminates more people," said Mr. Akright. "If fact, we've got people we're working with right now who may not do it. They didn't pull the trigger fast enough." 

 Still, he said, the effects will probably be small. The new home market is red hot, even though it slowed a little recently. Mortgages are still very affordable. 

 And while a rate hike might stem refinancing, fewer people are refinancing homes anyway, Mr. Akright said. That's because more than half of the Americans making mortgage payments refinanced in 1998. So this spring, even before interest rates rose, the number of refinancing was half what it was last spring. 

 Meanwhile, many credit card holders don't ever pay the interest on floating-rate cards. And the interest rate on new, fixed-rate cards moves slowly and rarely, economists said. 

 The main way the Fed committee could impact markets, economists said, is by doing the unexpected -- raising rates by 50 basis points or more, or not changing them at all. 

 Either move could spur a rally, economists said. No change might cause interest and mortgage rates to drift back down in a few months. A 50 basis-point raise, meanwhile, would be cheered because it would signal that the Fed has taken one decisive step, and might be less likely to raise rates again when it meets in August. 

 The main fear of traders, indeed, is that the Fed will start a series of hikes similar to the one it launched in 1994. "Small changes in the federal funds rate won't amount to much in terms of economic growth, unemployment, even inflation," said Southern Methodist University economist Nathan Balke. "But most of the time the Fed changes interest rates, it does so in runs. 

 The bank does so because it takes nine to 18 months for an interest rate change to fully work its way through the economy, and the Fed wants to move gradually in case other economic conditions change in that period. 

 "The cumulative effect of a sequence of Fed changes would have a much more dramatic effect," Mr. Balke said. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPC6231   IPDMarket Reports | Market News | Interest Rates | Economic Indicators | Economic News | United States of America, Americas~US | Americas | North America | Pacific Rim | Security & Commodity Exchanges   ANDocument krtbn00020010828dv6t015of  

HD As Rates Rise, Gold Credit Cards Losing Luster    BY Amber Veverka    WC594 words   PD29 June 1999   SNKRTBN Knight-Ridder Tribune Business News: The Charlotte Observer - North Carolina   SCKRTBN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright (C) 1999 KRTBN Knight Ridder Tribune Business News; Source: World Reporter (TM)
   LP Gold cards are losing their luster -- and now they cost customers more. 

 The average rates on new fixed-rate gold credit cards jumped from 13.9 percent in May to 15.08 percent this month, the highest rate in 15 months, according to Bankrate.com's June survey of card offers. 
   TD In contrast to gold cards' 8.5 percent jump in rates, rates on standard and platinum cards inched up less than 3 percent during the same period. 

 For a customer with a monthly balance of $2,000, the average held by people who revolve balances, the change in gold card rates would mean an extra $1.97 per month in interest charges. 

 Card issuers are hiking gold card rates partly because they expect the Federal Reserve Board to raise key rates Wednesday. But they're also raising rates because gold just doesn't glitter like it used to, according to Bankrate.com, a division of Intelligent Life Corp. "The gold card is becoming more and more of a mainstream product," said Greg McBride, Intelligent Life financial analyst. "The institutions that used to provide a favorable rate -- their very best rate -- on their gold card are not now." 

 Platinum Visa and MasterCards, introduced about three years ago, have shoved gold cards out of the spotlight and stolen some of their better customers, said Moshe Orenbuch, credit card analyst for Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette. Left with riskier customers going after gold cards, issuers raise interest rates to compensate, he said. 

 Giant card issuers such as First USA no longer push gold cards heavily, the way they did as little as three years ago. 

 First USA, owned by Chicago-based Bank One, tested gold against platinum and found customers turning up their noses at gold. 

 "As we saw the platinum was performing better, we started moving more of our offers to a platinum card," said Jeff Unkle, First USA spokesman. 

 Bank of America, the nation's largest bank, offers variable-rate gold cards, but not fixed rate. 

 "Consumers do not perceive (the gold card) to have extra value," said Robert McKinley, president of CardWeb.com, which tracks card rates and offers. 

 Visa and MasterCard gold cards must offer a credit limit of at least $5,000. Five years ago, gold cards were offered to people who made at least $30,000 or $35,000 a year, McKinley said. Now most issuers have dropped that threshold to $25,000. 

 Gold cards carry perks standard cards typically don't, such as rental car insurance, towing assistance and purchase protection. And platinum cards usually carry a slightly richer selection of such perks. But those may not mean much to most customers: McKinley said only 15 percent of cardholders ever use a card's perks. If people aren't responding to perks, they seem to be attracted to platinum's often-higher credit limits. Or, say experts, it just may be the notion that carrying a platinum card is somehow a little classier than carrying gold. 

 But platinum is already having to make room for the next high-end card, titanium. First USA launched titanium cards within the past year. 

 And what happens when card issuers run out of precious metals to name their cards after? 

 "We have to continue to be innovative," Unkle said. 

 Higher rates on gold cards could be short-lived, changing when the general interest rate environment changes. Or, some say, it could be more permanent, as the gold card continues to become slightly more downscale. 
   INibcs : Business/Consumer Services | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpersf : Personal Finance   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPC6141   IPDInterest Rates | Economic Indicators | Economic News | Personal Finance | General News | United States of America, Americas~US | Americas | North America | Pacific Rim | Personal Credit Institutions   ANDocument krtbn00020010828dv6t015od  



 HD The Fed, Not the Economy, Is Overheating    BY By Brian S. Wesbury    WC1,127 words   PD29 June 1999   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGA14   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)
   LP It now appears all but certain that the Federal Reserve will raise interest rates tomorrow. Keynesians and monetarists are saying that it is about time. Even some supply-siders favor the move, but argue weakly that it is "for the wrong reasons." Nonetheless, the Fed is making a costly mistake: Raising rates is the wrong move for the wrong reasons. 

 Why would the Fed raise rates? Because the economy has been growing at a 4% rate and the Fed believes that the sustainable level of economic growth is just 3% (1% labor-force growth and 2% productivity growth). The excess growth, according to Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan, has been "spurred by the rise in equity and home prices," a "wealth effect" that the Fed believes has added at least one percentage point to growth over the past three years. This, he fears, threatens to produce an increase in inflation by lowering the rate of unemployment to a point where upward wage pressures will become irresistible. 
   TD The Fed's reasoning, however, contains some questionable assumptions, the first of which is that productivity is growing at just 2%. This figure is at best a guess: Productivity is virtually impossible to measure in the service sector and new technologies have made measurement errors worse. 

 Thus, even as academic economists debate whether productivity is rising by 1.75% or 2% per year, "New Era" companies -- that is, those using new technologies to raise productivity -- are pushing productivity through the roof. For example, Amazon.com sold $375,000 worth of books per employee in 1998, while their closest competitor, Barnes & Noble, sold just $100,000. Amazon accomplished this 275% increase in productivity in three years -- an average annual increase of 55%. More broadly, the explosion of online possibilities has radically increased the value of computers even as their price has fallen. When prices fall, but value rises, by definition productivity is increasing. 

 This overall increase in productivity is immeasurable. But where we can measure productivity, it is surging. For example, productivity in durable-goods manufacturing has increased at a 5.9% annual rate -- the fastest it has grown in the postwar era and stronger even than the best estimates of productivity gains during the Industrial Revolution. Indeed, were it not for the serious policy implications, the current suggestion that productivity is growing at 2% would be a laughing matter. Productivity growth is not only much greater than 2% but will remain so for decades. 

 But what about the so-called wealth effect? The thinking at the Fed seems to be that raising interest rates will damp the stock-market boom and thus force consumers to spend more conservatively. Alas, there is a flaw in this reasoning: The "wealth effect" does not exist. As most accountants -- but too few economists -- know, it is impossible for the economy as a whole to spend the wealth created by the stock market. 

 Think about it. If I buy a stock for $50 a share and it appreciates to $100 a share, I definitely have more paper wealth. But in order to spend that wealth, I must sell the stock to someone else. Only then will I have $100 to spend, while the buyer will have the stock but not the money. For every credit, there must be a debit. Increases in asset prices cannot increase aggregate demand. 

 The same logic applies to homeowners or stockholders who borrow against their assets in order to spend. It is impossible for aggregate spending to increase because for every borrower there must be a saver. Once again, credits in the economy must equal debits. 

 The stock market represents the value of future earnings. And when productivity is strong, stock prices go up. However, while a company or individual can spend those future earnings by issuing or selling stock, the economy as a whole cannot. We must wait for the actual earnings before aggregate demand increases. 

 A third point on which the Fed errs is its view that low unemployment presages inflation. This notion flatly ignores the laws of supply and demand. A rise in nominal wages will not create inflation as long as the Fed does not accommodate the higher wages with excess money creation. 

 But there is a still more important point. There are now roughly 800,000 new business starts in the U.S. per year. Many of these are highly efficient New-Era companies that will eventually replace less efficient Old Era ones. One mechanism for this transformation is higher real wages. Highly productive New-Era companies can afford higher real wages, while less productive Old-Era companies cannot. 

 Again, the book-delivery business offers a good case study. Crown Books filed Chapter 11 last year and Lauriat's, a 127-year-old, 72-store Boston bookseller, closed its doors just weeks ago. Many Old-Era industries are overstaffed; higher real wages will force them to fold or transform. But the fact that the unemployment rate continues to fall suggests how effective New-Era companies have been in picking up the pieces. It's a sign of a dynamic economy, not an overheating one. 

 The Fed's decision to raise rates will certainly make life harder for old-era firms. By mistaking low unemployment for a sign of overheating the Fed runs the risk of creating deflationary forces that could harm the economy, especially in the commodity sector. Already, low prices are forcing mines to shut down and commodity producers to seek trade protection or federal aid through emergency spending bills. These pressures are just as real as the strong growth in wages and consumption but far more damaging. 

 Because the Fed is convinced that the economy is growing too rapidly, the bond market has priced in a significant interest-rate hike. The run-up in bond yields during recent months is partly due to misplaced fears of inflation, but mostly due to fear of the Fed. For the Fed to use the rise in bond yields as evidence of higher inflationary expectations is just circular logic. 

 The Fed is ignoring the signals of commodity prices and New-Era technologies and seems intent on bursting what it thinks is an asset bubble and an overheating economy. No one knows how far the Fed must go to slow the economy to 3% real growth. But the data suggest that attempting to do so may cause the onset of severe deflation and spell the end of the New Era. The real problem today is not that the economy is overheating, but that the Fed is using the wrong models to justify the wrong move. 

 --- 

 Mr. Wesbury is chief economist at Griffin, Kubik, Stephens & Thompson in Chicago. 
   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nedc : Commentary/Opinion   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument j000000020010828dv6t00h0n  
 Page 1 of 1      2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.


 

 Page 1      2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.

