 


 SEBusiness   HDUS Fed Guessing Game   BYRichard Salmons      WC656 words   PD25 August 1999   SNThe Age   SCAGEE   PG4   LAEnglish   CY© 1999 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.   www.theage.com.au
   LPThe sharemarket fell yesterday as investors crystallised their gains ahead of a long-awaited interest-rate rise in the United States overnight.

The All Ordinaries Index fell 11.8 points or 0.4 per cent to 3052.4, led by News Corporation, despite earlier rising to a high of 3083.4 points.
   TDThe early gains followed a record close on Wall Street on Monday night, with the headline Dow Jones Industrial Average soaring almost 200 points, or 1.8 per cent, to 11,299.76 - its first record since July.

But from mid-morning, the local market gave up its gains as investors weighed the general optimism that the chairman of the US Federal Reserve, Dr Alan Greenspan, would raise interest rates only slightly, against the possibility he would pull a rabbit out of the hat.

The majority of economists expected Dr Greenspan to increase rates by 0.25 per cent to 5.25 per cent, and stocks locally and on Wall Street rose as this view gained acceptance. But investors were hedging their bets yesterday by locking in their gains, because a greater-than-expected interest rate rise would hurt the sharemarket by making stocks relatively less attractive as investments.

At the same time, economists stressed that there was little chance of interest rate rises in Australia before next year, especially since home loan rates had crept up in recent months, and short-term bank bills were trading above the official cash rate.

``Certainly, there is little need currently for a tightening of monetary policy because financial markets have done some of the job for the Reserve Bank,'' said Mr Craig James, chief economist at Colonial.

Mr Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation, which derives 70 per cent of its income from the US, led the market's decline by falling 14 cents to $12.48, while its preferred stock lost the same to close at $11.31. News Corp last week announced 30 per cent decline in its full-year net profit.

Diversified resources companies also pushed the All Ordinaries down as Rio Tinto, the second-biggest mining company in the world, was hurt by reports of delayed production, lower production estimates, and increased costs at its Diavik diamond mine in Canada. Rio, which said it was committed to the project even though its partner predicted a one-year delay in starting production, fell 52 cents to $29.33.

Among other mining companies, the diversified producer WMC fell 15 cents or 2 per cent to $7.17, the forestry and uranium producer North lost five cents to $3.69, and BHP, which also has a diamond mine in Canada's Northwest Territories, lost 10 cents to $18.50.

Insurers fell as investors in GIO Australia were asked to join in legal action against the company in the wake of its devastating loss announced earlier this month. GIO's devastated shares were steady at $2.42, but the rival QBE Insurance lost seven cents to $5.68 and HIH Insurances fell four cents or 2.4 per cent to $1.65.

The interest-rate-sensitive banking sector was mixed as investors held their fire ahead of the Fed meeting. Westpac fell four cents to $9.90 but the market leader, National Australia Bank, rose 28 cents to $24.28 and Macquarie Bank gained nine cents to $20.40. Commonwealth Bank lost 23 cents to $24.20 after its managing director, Mr David Murray, warned of transitional costs as the bank built up its Internet services.

SUMMARY: The sharemarket fell, despite a record on Wall Street, as investors bet that prices would fall after the expected rise in US interest rates overnight. The benchmark All Ordinaries fell 11.8 points to 3052.4, while the All Industrials Index lost 13.3points to 5252.4 and the All Resources Index declined 13.6 points to 1341.9. 
   COnnewz : News Corp   INi475 : Printing/Publishing | i4751 : Newspaper Publishing | imed : Media/Entertainment | ipubl : Publishing   NSc1522 : Share Price Movement/Disruptions | e1202 : Interest Rates | c15 : Financial Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e12 : Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBFairfax Media Management Pty Limited   ANDocument agee000020010825dv8p00482  

HD North Carolinians Welcome  Federal Reserve 's  Interest Rate  Hike    WC513 words   PD25 August 1999   SNKRTBN Knight-Ridder Tribune Business News: High Point Enterprise - North Carolina   SCKRTBN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright (C) 1999 KRTBN Knight Ridder Tribune Business News; Source: World Reporter (TM)
   LP The Federal Reserve's second dose in eight weeks of anti-inflationary medicine was well-received by a group of area brokers and economic analysts Tuesday. 

 Officials from the federal agency announced interest rates will rise by a quarter-point to 5.25 percent. 
   TD The Fed had bumped up the federal funds rates -- the interest banks charge each other on overnight loans -- to 5 percent June 30. 

 While four of the analysts think Tuesday's move will be enough for the rest of the year, one believes the Fed will have to raise interest rates one more time in October. 

 "The Fed is doing exactly the right move at exactly the right time," said Gary Shoesmith, director of the Center of Economic Studies at Wake Forest University. 

 "It took a lot of nerve for the Fed to allow the economy to expand as it did last year. That's why I believe the Fed is slowly taking back the three quarter-point breaks it gave last year during the Asian crisis. 

 "They'll give us one more shot in October, which probably will be warranted since the economy should keep accelerating in the second half," Shoesmith added. 

 Bob Jones, branch director for IJL Wachovia, said his brokerage expects this Fed move will be enough tonic for the economy for the rest of the year. 

 "While there certainly is the possibility that the Fed could raise interest rates again (in October) depending on how the economy goes, I anticipate it won't until at least early January," Jones said. 

 Just as it did after the June 30 interest-rate hike, the Fed said Tuesday it was continuing to keep its policy directive on neutral. 

 David Jones, an investment representative with Edward Jones, said the Fed's neutral positioning makes him believe the central bank is through with interest rate hikes for the year. Jones forecasted Tuesday's rate hike after the June 30 move. 

 "With all the inflationary and Y2K concerns out there, it appears the Fed chose to reduce any concerns now with these two hikes before late-in-the-year-factors could come into play," Jones said. 

 Michael McCully, an assistant professor of economics and business at High Point University, said he believes the Fed will continue to take a wait-and-see approach to its handiwork. 

 "It's too soon to see how effective this move will be toward calming investor nerves," McCully said. 

 "The move should have the desired effect of cooling the economy, but then again, the economy still has plenty of strength left in it." 

 Sonny Skinner, branch office manager with J.C. Bradford & Co., said he's still telling his clients to remain cautious in the short term despite the Fed's move. 

 "We remain firm in our recommendation of a 50-50 stock/bond portfolio for the short term," Skinner said. 

 "But in the long term, we see no slowing of the trend of baby boomers investing in the market, perhaps as long as six years." 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REasiaz : Asia | gulfstz : Persian Gulf Regions | meastz : Middle East | namz : North America | qatar : Qatar | usa : United States | wasiaz : Western Asia   IPDEconomic News | Interest Rates | Economic Indicators | United States of America, Americas~US | Americas | North America | Pacific Rim | Federal_Reserve_USA   ANDocument krtbn00020010828dv8p01jp9  

HD Federal Reserve  Board's  Interest Rate  Hike Leaves Markets Unruffled    BY John T. Ward    WC903 words   PD25 August 1999   SNKRTBN Knight-Ridder Tribune Business News: The Star-Ledger - Newark, New Jersey   SCKRTBN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright (C) 1999 KRTBN Knight Ridder Tribune Business News; Source: World Reporter (TM)
   LP One day after loudly declaring that they could live with slightly higher interest rates, the financial markets yesterday showed they weren't bluffing. 

 The Federal Reserve Board increased borrowing costs by 25 basis points -- a quarter of a percentage point -- and the Dow Jones industrial average barely budged, closing just 16.46 off Monday's record close. Other market indicators, including the Nasdaq Composite and the S&P 500, gained in value. 
   TD For consumers and business managers, the rate hike means loans will be more expensive. But many economists said they doubt that the increase will significantly slow the economy. 

 "It's kind of wishful thinking to believe that a quarter of a point is going to do much," said Kathleen Camilli, director of economic research at the Tucker Anthony brokerage. 

 Key to the sense of calm, said market watchers, was the Fed's signal that -- for the time being, at least -- it is "neutral" on the question of whether further rate increases might be needed to slow the nation's economy and head off wage-fueled inflation. 

 Now, looking ahead, New Jersey Builders Association economist Patrick J. O'Keefe said Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan and his advisers are likely to turn their full attention to ensuring that there's enough cash in the economy as worries build about the effect of the looming Y2K computer glitch. 

 "I think they'd prefer to stay on an even keel and provide additional liquidity, so when you and I go to our ATMs on December 16 and take out a couple of hundred extra dollars -- which everyone will probably do -- there's enough currency in the system." 

 He likened the Fed's role in coming months to the one it assumed in October 1987 immediately following the worst stock crash since 1929. At the time, the Fed announced its readiness to maintain liquidity in the markets, helping to avert a financial panic. 

 Similarly, corporate finance executives have signaled their fears that the capital markets will stall as the end of the millennium approaches and investors hold off on new investments, fearful that widespread computer failures could affect the financial system. 

 With the possibility of a liquidity crisis in coming months, Farrokh K. Langdana yesterday told students enrolled for the fall program at the Rutgers Graduate School of Management that "this could be, perhaps, one of the most interesting semesters of the past 10 years." 

 For one thing, just how much faith Americans can put in the Fed's hint of neutrality on future rate hikes is questionable, said Langdana. He noted that the Fed also signaled neutrality after it last raised rates, also by a quarter-point, on June 30. 

 "That's the problem with moral suasion: You can only send signals so many times" if you later reverse course, said Langdana. "It's going to come back to bite (Greenspan)." 

 As expected, the Fed announced yesterday it was increasing its target for the federal funds rates -- the interest that banks charge each other on overnight loans -- to 5.25 percent from 5 percent. 

 To drive home its efforts to fight inflation, the Fed also raised the discount rate, the interest that it charges for direct loans to banks, by a quarter-point as well. The discount rate was increased to 4.75 percent, the first increase since Feb. 1, 1995. 

 The Fed's rate increases were expected to be followed quickly by announcements from commercial banks that they were boosting their prime lending rate by a similar quarter- point, from the current 8 percent to 8.25 percent. The prime rate is a key benchmark for millions of loans, from home mortgages and credit cards to short-term loans for small businesses. 

 In a statement, the Fed said its actions yesterday and the June 30 rate increase should "markedly diminish the risk of rising inflation going forward." 

 The increase will be felt by consumers and businesses with new loans or existing loans indexed to government bonds. 

 But O'Keefe said the increase is unlikely to make a dent in the housing market in New Jersey. That's because prices on housing here are among the highest in the nation -- so high that buyers will barely flinch. 

 "In a very real sense, somebody who's buying at these prices is making as much an investment decision as a shelter decision," he said. 

 Nor are economists convinced that the rate hike will meet its intended aim of slowing the economy and heading off inflation. The financial markets' pre-absorption of the increase -- with stocks that had been down in recent weeks soaring back in advance of the Fed's move -- indicates that stock traders are not much concerned that higher rates will eat into corporate profits. 

 But Rutgers' Langdana said the focus on the Fed's urge to slow the economy obscured the Fed's other purpose: restoring U.S. Treasuries and corporate bonds to levels at which they can again compete for capital with those issued in Japan and Europe, which have gradually recovered from last year's global currency crisis. 

 "We are very dependent on global capital inflows," Langdana said. "So, yes, the Fed did tap the brakes on the domestic economy, but in doing so, they also made returns more attractive here." 

 The Associated Press contributed to this report. 
   INiinv : Investing/Securities   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REasiaz : Asia | gulfstz : Persian Gulf Regions | meastz : Middle East | namz : North America | qatar : Qatar | usa : United States | wasiaz : Western Asia   IPC6231   IPDEconomic News | Market Reports | Market News | Interest Rates | Economic Indicators | United States of America, Americas~US | Americas | North America | Pacific Rim | Federal_Reserve_USA | Security & Commodity Exchanges   ANDocument krtbn00020010828dv8p01joj  

HD Federal Reserve  Committee's Talks on  Interest Rate  May be Contentious    WC412 words   PD25 August 1999   SNKRTBN Knight-Ridder Tribune Business News: Evening Standard - London   SCKRTBN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright (C) 1999 KRTBN Knight Ridder Tribune Business News; Source: World Reporter (TM)
   LP Unlike the Bank of England's last policymaking meeting, where the nine members were of one mind that rates should stay unchanged, the US Federal Reserve's policy-making session today is expected to be highly contentious and the outcome is more uncertain than the markets seem to think. 

 Washington's secretive Federal Open Market Committee usually doesn't let outsiders get a glimpse of its inner workings but leaked reports from the last meeting in June suggest there was a lot of disagreement among the members. In the end they agreed to raise rates a quarter-point as a pre-emptive strike against inflation and the betting is on a similar move today. 
   TD However, the economic evidence on which the Fed bases its decisions is inconclusive to say the least. The hawks on the committee could legitimately argue for a sharper half-point rise in the Fed Funds rate, given recent warning signs on inflation. Wages are rising twice as fast as they were at this point last year and the dollar is weaker, which could lead to higher import prices and less restraint on domestic pricing. 

 Productivity is weakening and growth in the second quarter, though slower than the first, was held back by a temporary surge in inventories. Most economists say growth is already back above 3 percent, higher than is supportable. 

 On the other hand, there is absolutely no indication that any of the price pressure from the labour market is spilling through to higher overall prices. Consumers appear less gung ho than they were earlier in the year and the stock market is moving sideways, which reduces carefree spending by those who have a stake in equities. 

 If the economy is already in a soft landing, there is no reason to apply the brakes. What it will come down to is Fed chairman Alan Green-span's ability to weigh the contradictory data. The FOMC is a committee in name but his one vote counts more than the other 11. No matter how heated the debate, if the chairman leans one way, the others will fall in line. 

 Greenspan is credited with keeping the US recovery alive for a record-breaking eight years but he has not faced many critical moments where policy was not dictated by economic events. He faces such a moment now and it will be interesting to see which way he goes. 
   INi814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REasiaz : Asia | eurz : Europe | gulfstz : Persian Gulf Regions | meastz : Middle East | namz : North America | qatar : Qatar | uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | wasiaz : Western Asia | weurz : Western Europe   IPC6011 | 6019   IPDBank_of_England | Economic News | Interest Rates | Economic Indicators | United States of America, Americas~US | United Kingdom, Europe~GB | Americas | North America | Pacific Rim | Europe | European Union | Western Europe | Federal_Reserve_USA | Federal Reserve Banks, Central Reserve Depository NEC   ANDocument krtbn00020010828dv8p01jo1  

HD San Joaquin County, Ore., Assesses Impact of  Interest Rate  Hike    BY Bill Cook    WC829 words   PD25 August 1999   SNKRTBN Knight-Ridder Tribune Business News: The Register Guard - Eugene, Oregon   SCKRTBN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright (C) 1999 KRTBN Knight Ridder Tribune Business News; Source: World Reporter (TM)
   LP "Nudge ... slight adjustments ... not significant ... pretty modest ... small ... fine-tune ... comfortable." 

 These are the words that local economic experts used often Tuesday in assessing the probable impact in San Joaquin County of the Federal Reserve Bank's lastest interest-rate adjustment. 
   TD As widely expected, the Federal Reserve on Tuesday raised borrowing costs for millions of Americans for the second time this summer, boosting two rates it controls by a quarter point in an effort to keep the economy from overheating. 

 In response, major banks immediately increased their prime rate, the benchmark rate for millions of consumer and business loans, ranging from home equity loans to some credit card debt. 

 The Fed raised the suggested "federal funds" interest rates  which banks charge each other for overnight loans  by one-quarter of 1 percent to 5.25 percent Tuesday. The central bank also nudged higher its largely symbolic discount rate, the interest it charges on direct loans to banks, by a quarter point to 4.75 percent. 

 Wall Street, after a roller-coaster afternoon following the Fed announcement, closed with the Dow Jones industrial average down just 16.46 points from Monday's record high. 

 San Joaquin County bankers and business professors think the Federal Reserve's action will help to keep inflation under control. They also are convinced the adjustment isn't big enough to slow down the local economy, currently gaining in momentum. 

 In short, they say, local consumers and business people should feel little if any immediate change. 

 "Some banks may raise their interest rates by a quarter-point," said Leon Zimmerman, president and CEO of the Bank of Lodi, "but if this is enough to sway a 'goo go' decision on buying something or doing something, your (safety) margins were too thin to begin with." 

 Paul Tatsch, a professor of finance at University of the Pacific's Eberhardt School of Business, said variable-rate mortgages, credit card rates and auto loans might be slightly affected. 

 "So this isn't going to help the consumer a whole lot," Tatsch said. "On the other hand, because the rate hike is so small  a nudge rather than a jump  it may not hurt a whole lot, either." 

 William Trezza, chief executive officer of Stockton's Bank of Agriculture & Commerce, called the rate increase "pretty modest. It's in the range that everybody seems comfortable with. Lending rates will drift up moderately, and depositor's rate will drift up as well. 

 "But it's not earth-shaking. It's an acceptable level of increase, not enough to stop people from buying property or expanding their businesses." 

 The importance of this should not be underestimated, Trezza said. 

 "The one thing the Feds don't want to do is cut off consumer confidence. Consumer spending is generally two-third of our economy. I would be looking at that more than I would at interest rates right now." 

 Kent Steinwert, president and chief executive officer of the Lodi-based Farmers & Merchants Bank of Central California, thinks many interest rates will stay right where they are. 

 "We think market already anticipated the move" by making minor rate adjustments, Steinwert said. "We do not expect this to result in corresponding increases in most rates." 

 Mark Plovnick, dean of UOP's Eberhardt School of Business, said the federal action "is unlikely to have any traumatic impact. It could influence a small number of decisions to buy a house or a car, but it's pretty small change." 

 Jeff Taylor, a 38-year-old re-entry student at San Joaquin Delta College, thinks these assessments are realistic. 

 "A quarter-point doesn't make much difference," Taylor said. "I don't think it will change my buying decisions too much." 

 Tatsch commented that "25 basis points (one-fourth of 1 percent) is not that serious. I'd much prefer to slightly higher interest rates for a few months instead of much higher inflation down the line. No one wants to return to the 10 and 12 percent inflation of the early 1980s." 

 Zimmerman calculated that on a 30-year, $100,000 loan, a quarter-point increase in interest rates would amount to an additional $17.51 a month. 

 Banker Steinwert believes the Federal Reserve actions will help to contain inflation, "which is important to maintain our economic strength and optimize our growth potential. 

 "San Joaquin County's economy is healthy and continuing to gain momentum. We look for very strong economy during the coming year, with improved employment opportunities and a heightening of consumer spending." 

 Plovnick said Federal Reserve officials decided on what he terms "a precautionary, small pre-emptive move" after looking at the inflation scenario and finding it "not too scary." 

 "This really was fine-tuning," Plovnick said. "But it might be enough to take some of the steam out of the economy, keep the lid on, not have it expand too rapidly." 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REasiaz : Asia | gulfstz : Persian Gulf Regions | meastz : Middle East | namz : North America | qatar : Qatar | usa : United States | wasiaz : Western Asia   IPDEconomic News | Interest Rates | Economic Indicators | United States of America, Americas~US | Americas | North America | Pacific Rim   ANDocument krtbn00020010828dv8p01jn0  

HD Labor Shortage's Pressure on Inflation Spurs  Federal Reserve  Rate Hike    BY Merrill Goozner    WC865 words   PD25 August 1999   SNKRTBN Knight-Ridder Tribune Business News: Chicago Tribune - Illinois   SCKRTBN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright (C) 1999 KRTBN Knight Ridder Tribune Business News; Source: World Reporter (TM)
   LP WASHINGTON--Bowing to fears that tight labor markets will generate inflationary wage pressures, the Federal Reserve Board did the expected Tuesday by raising its key interest rate a quarter point. 

 But at the same time, the nation's central bank signaled that this probably will be last rate increase until next year. 
   TD The Fed's Open Market Committee raised the federal funds rate, which is the rate banks charge one another for overnight loans, to 5.25 percent. Coupled with the quarter-point increase in June, the Fed now has unwound two-thirds of the three quarter-point rate cuts it ordered last fall when the global economy appeared close to collapse. 

 "Today's increase in the federal funds rate, together with the policy action in June and the firming of conditions more generally in U.S. financial markets over recent months, should markedly diminish the risk of rising inflation going forward," the Fed statement said. 

 Some analysts saw the Fed's simultaneous decision to raise the seldom used discount rate to 4.75 percent as a sign that it will continue raising rates at its fall and winter meetings. But the consensus view was that the Fed probably will move to the sidelines for the rest of the year as businesses and consumers raise cash to deal with any perceived or real problems they may have in dealing with Year 2000 computer woes. 

 "They're done for now," said Lyle Gramley, a consulting economist for the Mortgage Bankers Association and a former Fed governor. "The threat of further increases won't come until next year." 

 Financial markets reacted to the Fed's action in their usual manner: buy on the rumor, sell on the news. Stock traders, having run up equities to all-times highs on Monday on speculation that the Fed would raise rates one last time this year, sold off modestly after the fact. The Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 16.46 points to close at 11,283.30. 

 Bond prices, which usually move in the opposite direction of interest rates, rose sharply after the Fed's announcement. While bond prices should fall when interest rates rise as they did Tuesday, bond prices have in fact been dropping sharply all year on the incorrect assumption that the Fed would order at least three rate increases this summer and fall. 

 Now that it appears the Fed is done for the year, some of the bond market's overreaction had to be unwound. The benchmark 30-year Treasury bond rose sharply Tuesday as long-term interest rates fell to 5.94 percent, from 5.98 percent a day earlier. 

 Most of the effects of a rate increase on the overall economy already have been felt. Mortgage rates, for instance, which had fallen as low as 6.75 percent last fall, are now hovering around 7.75 percent for the 30-year fixed rate mortgage. 

 That's slowed home buying activity and refinancings. Businesses also have been liquidating inventories. Those two drags on economic activity will probably be reflected in the second quarter gross domestic product, which is slated for release by the Commerce Department on Thursday. 

 Most economists are expecting growth in the second quarter to fall to less than a 2 percent annual rate, down sharply from the 4.3 percent annualized increase of the first quarter. 

 The Fed's policy of deliberately slowing economic activity to ease inflationary pressures drew a heated dissent from labor economists. They argue that the rapid growth rates of the past several years have allowed unemployment to fall to its lowest level in 30 years and given workers in the bottom 40 percent of the workforce their biggest real wage gains in two decades. 

 "There's no evidence of accelerating inflation, none," said Thomas Palley, assistant director of public policy for the AFL-CIO. "They're getting back into the old policy of preemptively striking against inflation, which in the past kept unemployment rates unnecessarily high." 

 As recently as 1995, Fed policymakers believed unemployment could not be pushed below 6 percent without generating inflation. Though unemployment has fallen in the past year as low as 4.2 percent and remains at just 4.3 percent, inflation -- not counting volatile energy prices -- is rising at just a 2.4 percent annual rate. 

 Meanwhile, the stock market's modest reaction to the rate increase suggested to many analysts that stocks will continue their push into record territory in the days ahead. That could eventually force the Fed into another round of rate hikes. 

 The soaring stock market allows consumers to avoid saving and spend more than they earn. And it is this consumer spending, which has been soaring ahead at 5 to 6 percent a quarter, that has generated the 4 to 5 percent growth rates of recent quarters that has so spooked the Fed. 

 "Whether this rate hike will be enough to hold down inflation depends on the stock market," said Gramley. "It will be hard to get a significant cooling of the economy until the stock market reacts to the threat of rising rates." 
   INi814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REasiaz : Asia | gulfstz : Persian Gulf Regions | meastz : Middle East | namz : North America | qatar : Qatar | usa : United States | wasiaz : Western Asia   IPC6019   IPDEconomic News | Interest Rates | Economic Indicators | Inflation | United States of America, Americas~US | Americas | North America | Pacific Rim | Federal_Reserve_USA | Central Reserve Depository NEC   ANDocument krtbn00020010828dv8p01jjp  

HD Consumer Rates Could Follow  Federal Reserve  Increase    BY Miriam Hill    WC608 words   PD25 August 1999   SNKRTBN Knight-Ridder Tribune Business News: The Philadelphia Inquirer - Pennsylvania   SCKRTBN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright (C) 1999 KRTBN Knight Ridder Tribune Business News; Source: World Reporter (TM)
   LP Consumers can look forward to higher auto loan, credit card and home equity loan payments because of the Federal Reserve's decision yesterday to raise a key interest rate by a quarter of a percentage point. 

 "(The Fed) has an impact," said James Dunigan, chief investment officer at PNC Advisors. "You will likely see the prime rate inch up as well, so any interest rates, be they home equity loans, credit cards, or any rates that are pegged to the prime rate will go up as well." 
   TD The prime rate is the rate banks charge their most creditworthy customers. Prime rate increases likely will follow the Fed's announcement yesterday that it had increased the federal funds rate, the rate banks charge each other for overnight loans, to 5.25 percent from 5 percent. 

 On the plus side, the rate hike should line savers' pockets as banks increase interest rates on certificates of deposit. 

 The effect of the Fed's decision on 15 and 30-year mortgage rates is less clear. Those rates depend mostly on rates on long-term Treasury securities. 

 Fixed mortgage rates could even drop if the bond markets interpret the Fed's move as anti-inflationary, said Paul Havemann, vice president of HSH Associates, a mortgage-tracking firm in Butler, N.J. 

 Mortgage rates have been rising for most of the year -- but not because of the Fed. Consumers have bought new homes at a frenzied pace, allowing lenders to charge more, said Christine Heady, vice president and editor-at-large of bankrate.com, which tracks various bank rates. Inflationary fears in the bond market have also fed higher mortgage rates. 

 Rates on 30-year mortgages have increased to about 8 percent from 6.99 percent a year ago, Havemann said. 

 The higher rates may seem expensive, but they're still low by historical standards, Heady said. Fifteen years ago, for example, the rate on a 30-year home loan was 14 percent. 

 But even that kind of perspective probably won't leave consumers happy when they go shopping for auto or credit-card loans. 

 The average rate on a 48-month auto loan is 8.22 percent, and Heady expects that to rise by the full quarter of a percentage point as banks factor in the Fed's hike. The same goes for credit cards, where the average fixed rate is 13.2 percent. 

 Heady warned consumers to keep the rate increase in mind when they consider credit-cards that feature a low, introductory rate. 

 "What consumers really need to watch out for is the window dressing that lenders use to conceal higher rates," she said. "Right now, consumers have the impression that rates are going up and they're just going to look for the lowest rate out there, but it's important to dig through the fine print. They could get hit later when an introductory rate heads higher." 

 Rates on certificates of deposit have been following the Fed increases, she said. The average yield, which includes reinvested interest, on a one-year CD hit 5.21 percent last week, compared to just 4.35 percent six months ago. 

 Heady said savers should focus on short-term certificates of deposit for now. A three-month CD could be a good option because consumers would be able to reinvest their money at the new, higher rate if the Fed's board of governors raises rates again at its next meeting on October 5. 

 "Don't go long, go short," she said. "That way, you're not tying yourself down to a specific rate." 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REasiaz : Asia | gulfstz : Persian Gulf Regions | meastz : Middle East | namz : North America | qatar : Qatar | usa : United States | wasiaz : Western Asia   IPDEconomic News | Interest Rates | Economic Indicators | United States of America, Americas~US | Americas | North America | Pacific Rim | Federal_Reserve_USA   ANDocument krtbn00020010828dv8p01jj6  

HD With Rate Hike,  Federal Reserve  Leaves Door Open for Further Action    BY Robert Dodge    WC1,074 words   PD25 August 1999   SNKRTBN Knight-Ridder Tribune Business News: The Dallas Morning News - Texas   SCKRTBN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright (C) 1999 KRTBN Knight Ridder Tribune Business News; Source: World Reporter (TM)
   LP WASHINGTON--The Federal Reserve Board left open for debate whether more hikes are in the pipeline this year as it raised short-term interest rates a quarter percent Tuesday. 

 The central bank's decision to increase its federal funds rate to 5.25 percent was a widely anticipated move to combat inflation before higher prices take hold. 
   TD But policymakers maintained a so-called "neutral bias," which left experts discussing whether they had finished their inflation fighting work. 

 "You really have to pound on the U.S. economy to slow it down significantly," said Susan Hering, chief economist at Carr Futures in Chicago. "So far, the Fed has just begun to tap it." 

 The rate increase was expected on Wall Street where investors staged a 199-point rally Monday in hopes that interest rates hikes would be limited. But on Tuesday, investors quickly refocused their attention on future Fed policy, and the Dow Jones Industrial Average closed down 16.46 at 11283.30. 

 "Now that the Fed has taken its action, the markets will begin to focus on how strong is the economy and what are the inflation risks," said Richard Berner, chief U.S. economist at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter in New York. 

 The Fed's action, the second interest rate hike since June, is likely to mean slightly higher interest fees for business and consumer loans. To reinforce its policy change, the Fed also raised to 4.75 percent the interest rate its Federal Reserve Banks charge on direct loans to commercial banks. 

 Commercial banks were expected to hike their prime lending rates a quarter-point to 8.25 percent. 

 The prime rate is the key lending fee banks use to peg many business and consumer loans. Mortgage rates already have risen in anticipation of the Fed's decision and are expected to dampen demand for home sales. 

 Even so, analysts said consumers will not feel squeezed by the Fed's decision. They noted that homebuyers can offset higher mortgage rates by taking out an adjustable rate mortgages and that competition among the automakers will help hold down auto loan fees. 

 "I do not expect housing starts to fall off sharply," said Ms. Hering. "The unemployment rate is low and people are confident about making decisions about the future and that is what housing purchases require." 

 Similarly, analysts said the adjustment would not deliver a crushing blow to business borrowers. "Businesses, especially small businesses, will find their borrowing costs up slightly but credit should still be relatively easy to get," said Martin Regalia, chief economist at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. 

 Even so, Mr. Greenspan is expected to take political flak for pursuing a tighter monetary policy. He already has come under criticism by some Republican presidential candidates and likely will take heat from Democrats and GOP members on Capitol Hill. 

 "It gives somebody something to chew on," said Leslie Alperstein, a political economist at HSBC Washington Analysis, a research arm of HSBC Securities Inc. 

 But Mr. Alperstein said the rate increase is so small, the political fallout will be minimal. "If it looked like they were embarking on a series of increases, the politicians would be very, very concerned and very vocal," he added. 

 Economists said the economy appears to have found renewed strength since it slowed to an annual growth rate of 2.3 percent during the second quarter. They said consumers are continuing to spend, businesses are building inventories as a precaution against problems associated with the Y2K computer bug and export markets are beginning to strengthen. 

 Analysts predicted the economy will grow at an annual rate of 3.5 to 4 percent in the second half of 1999. 

 Christine Callies, chief U.S. market strategist at CS First Boston in New York, questioned whether there was any evidence of a slowdown. 

 Instead, economists said the debate has shifted to what is the best strategy for fighting inflation. The central bank's so-called "neutral bias" did little to clear-up what Fed policymakers may be planning. 

 "A neutral bias does not mean a thing," said David Wyss, an economist at Standard & Poor's DRI, an economist consulting firm in Lexington, Mass. 

 Some economists said the central bank gave itself room to raise rates again at its next meeting Oct. 5. And they said the Fed further muddied the picture when it said that its two recent rate hikes "should markedly diminish the risk of rising inflation going forward." 

 Experts said the Y2K computer bug puts increased pressure on Fed policymakers to finish raising rates for the year by their next meeting. They said the Fed will want to be a stabilizing influence should problems develop at the turn of the year because of computer problems. 

 But they also said the central bank's "neutral bias" suggests the central bank has not embarked on a long-term strategy of ever-increasing interest rates. 

 Analysts noted that another increase would simply return interest rates to where they were before the Asian economic crisis. The Fed slashed interest rates last fall, reducing the federal funds rate to 4.75 percent, in an effort calm financial markets as the currency crisis spread from Asian to Russia and then Latin America. 

 In its public statement, the Fed noted that overseas financial markets have stabilized, eliminating the need to maintain the lower level of interest rates. 

 Economists said policymakers, as well as Wall Street investors, would focus on a slew of monthly economic statistics due during the next two months. 

 "It will really depend on the data," Ms. Hering said. 

 So far, the government's economic reports have shown some signs that may point to higher prices. The economic data are buttressed by anecdotal evidence, such as a plethora of help-wanted signs, that employers are having difficulties finding workers for a wide range of skilled and unskilled work. 

 Among the worrisome statistics are higher average hourly wages, which are included in the Labor Department's monthly employment report. Also of concern is the Employment Cost Index, which includes both wages and benefits, and has been rising. 

 During the next two months, the Fed also is expected to closely eye the Producer Price Index, which measures inflation at the wholesale level, and the Consumer Price Index. Both could hold new clues about whether wage increases are translating into higher prices. 
   INi814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSc31 : Marketing | c314 : Pricing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REasiaz : Asia | gulfstz : Persian Gulf Regions | meastz : Middle East | namz : North America | qatar : Qatar | usa : United States | wasiaz : Western Asia   IPC6019   IPDPrices | Company News | Economic News | Interest Rates | Economic Indicators | United States of America, Americas~US | Americas | North America | Pacific Rim | Central Reserve Depository NEC   ANDocument krtbn00020010828dv8p01jgw  

HD Federal Reserve  Rate Hike Could Be Felt by Consumers    BY Kimberly Blanton    WC861 words   PD25 August 1999   SNKRTBN Knight-Ridder Tribune Business News: The Boston Globe - Massachusetts   SCKRTBN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright (C) 1999 KRTBN Knight Ridder Tribune Business News; Source: World Reporter (TM)
   LP The Federal Reserve Board for a second time this summer bumped interest rates up by a quarter percentage point in an attempt to head off inflation caused by galloping growth. 

 In an action that was widely expected, the Fed committee headed by chairman Alan Greenspan that sets monetary policy, voted to raise the federal funds rate by a quarter point to 5.25 percent. In a mildly surprising signal of the committee's vigilance in preempting inflation, the Federal Open Market Committee also raised another key interest rate, the discount rate, by a quarter point, to 4 3-4 percent. 
   TD The moves had virtually no impact on the bond or stock markets, which widely anticipated them. But the Fed's action will increase the cost of borrowing and buying for Americans whose spending has fueled the economic boom. 

 "It's not the best news for consumers because bank loans such as mortgages are going to be rising, but the long-term view is the Fed is vigilant on inflation and that's good for consumers in the long run," said Mario DeRose, fixed-income strategist for Edward Jones, a St. Louis brokerage firm. 

 The tightening move came just eight weeks after the Fed committee boosted the federal funds rate to 5 percent, from 4.75, at its last meeting on June 30. Although the Fed at that time said no further hikes were planned, data that showed wages were accelerating forced Greenspan and other board members to rethink that stance. 

 The Fed seemed firm that yesterday's rate hike would be sufficient and again adopted a neutral position on the future direction of interest rates. 

 The Fed said in a statement after concluding its meeting: "Today's increase in the federal funds rate, together with the policy action in June and the firming of conditions more generally in U.S. financial markets over recent months, should markedly diminish the risk of rising inflation going forward." 

 Two consecutive rate hikes -- the first on June 30 -- took back most of the three separate, quarter-point reductions last fall in the midst of financial crises abroad and on Wall Street. The reversals mimicked moves not seen since the Fed undid its emergency easing after the stock market crash of October 1987. 

 Analysts said the Fed announcement held little news, save raising the discount rate and closing a widening gap with the federal funds rate. The discount rate is the amount commercial banks are charged to borrow from the central bank; the federal funds rate is the rate at which banks are required to charge when lending overnight to each other. 

 "Alan Greenspan hit the ball right down the center of the fairway. He did what was the mainstream expectation, which was to raise rates 25 basis points and to adopt a neutral directive," said Richard Hoey, chief economist in the New York office of Dreyfus Corp. 

 Financial markets shrugged. The Dow Jones industrial average, which soared 199 points on Monday to a new record, surged yesterday and then plunged in a confused reaction to the Fed announcement. The Dow closed yesterday at 11,283.30, off just 16.46 points. 

 The Standard & Poor's 500 index gained 3.28 points, up one-quarter of a percentage point, while the technology-heavy Nasdaq rose 32.80 points, up 1.21 percent. 

 "The market has correctly anticipated the Fed moves, and it more or less discounted this action in the market" prior to yesterday's announcement, said Stephen Oristaglio, deputy head of investments for Putnam Investments. 

 Fed chairman Greenspan had carefully prepared a nervous stock market trading at sky-high levels. In July 21 testimony to Congress, he warned that inflationary forces were rising, especially because of a very tight labor market that has shown signs of pushing up wages, the largest single cost faced by producers and a key determinant of inflation. 

 Although wage pressures haven't yet shown up in the consumer price index, which is rising at only a 1.7 percent pace this year, the Fed's actions were clearly meant to preempt harsher measures in the future and ensure a soft landing for an economy forecast to gain speed later this year. 

 Nicholas Perna, chief economist for Fleet Financial Group Inc., cited a number of factors worrying the Fed. In addition to a tight labor market caused by low unemployment, they include acclerating growth and rising oil prices. 

 After expanding 4.3 percent in the first three months of this year, the economy in the second quarter slowed to 2.3 percent, though a revised growth estimate, due tomorrow, may show even slower growth. But growth is expected to pick up in the second quarter. 

 Oddly, the Fed's moves are in part trying to catch up to the bond market, where yields on long-term bonds have risen sharply. The yield on 30-year U.S. Treasury bonds are a full percentage point higher than they were in January, though still slightly below levels a year ago. The yield fell 5 basis points yesterday to 5.93 percent. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gcon : Consumer Affairs   REasiaz : Asia | gulfstz : Persian Gulf Regions | meastz : Middle East | namz : North America | qatar : Qatar | usa : United States | wasiaz : Western Asia   IPC9311 | 9611   IPDEconomic News | Interest Rates | Economic Indicators | Consumer Issues | General News | United States of America, Americas~US | Americas | North America | Pacific Rim | Federal_Reserve_USA | Finance Taxation & Monetary Policy, Administration of General Economic Programs   ANDocument krtbn00020010828dv8p01jgv  



 HD Treasurys Rally On Improved Rate Sentiment; Long Bond Yields 5.847%    WC890 words   PD25 August 1999   ET15:14   SNDow Jones Business News   SCDJON   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- Longer-term Treasurys extended their rally Wednesday, with investors becoming more convinced that the latest interest-rate increases by the Federal Reserve will be the last this year. 

 Late in Wednesday's session, the yield on the 30-year Treasury bond was at 5.847%, down from 5.928% late Tuesday. The bond's price - which moves inversely to the yield - was up 1 5/32 at 103 27/32. The bellwether long bond hadn't ended the New York trading session below 5.87% since late May. 
   TD The bond rose 23/32 Tuesday on investor optimism that the Fed will now hold steady on monetary policy. 

 Traders said further buying in Treasurys Wednesday came from a combination of retail investors, dealers and hedge funds covering speculative short positions. A tumble in crude-oil and gasoline futures prices Wednesday also eased inflation worries, helping the bond market. 

 "It doesn't seem like anything can stop the market for now," said Mark Sauvigne, Treasurys trader at Chase Securities in New York. 

 "This is a continuation of the type of buying we've seen since right before the (Federal Open Market Committee announcement) yesterday," said Steven Saslow, executive managing director at HSBC Securities in New York. 

 Saslow added that many investors seem to be moving back to the bond market, following nearly nine months of overall weakness, because there is a widespread belief the Fed may not need to raise interest rates again in its effort to slow the U.S. economy. "If people think the Fed is out of the picture for the rest of the year, they are going to put some money to work," added Saslow. 

 Among other Treasury issues late Wednesday, the 10-year note was up 26/32 at 102 5/32 to yield 5.71%. Short-term securities underperformed the rest of the market. The two-year note was up 4/32 at 99 31/32 to yield 5.52%. Three-month bills were down seven basis points at 4.77 to yield 4.90%. 

 Wednesday's two-year note auction wasn't particularly impressive. The Treasury awarded $15.00 billion in two-year notes at 5.557%. Non-competitive bids dropped to $1.4 billion compared to the July 28 auction when non-competitive bids were $1.6 billion. And the bid-to-cover ratio, an indication of demand, was mediocre at 1.87, down from 2.15 in July. 

 "It's just amazing that the Treasury market is nonplused," said Kevin Flanagan, money market economist at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter in New York. "There is just no question that sentiment is changing." 

 "There is a lot of faith in the Fed's ability being displayed here," said Flanagan. 

 The Fed on Tuesday raised its target federal-funds rate to 5.25% from 5.00% and raised the discount rate to 4.75% from 4.50%, where it had stood since last November. The policy-setting FOMC said the tightening, along with the earlier rate boost in June, should "markedly diminish the risk of rising inflation going forward." This helped ease investor worries that the FOMC would raise rates again at its October 5 meeting. 

 Since its peak of 6.27% on Aug. 12, the yield on the 30-year Treasury bond has fallen well below 6.00%. 

 "What the (yield) curve is telling you is that investors feel that the Fed is on top of the situation, that they believe they will succeed in preventing demand pressures from building in the economy ... but I wonder if we aren't getting ahead of ourselves," Flanagan added. He warned that the August employment report scheduled for next week could easily throw out more signs that the economy is at risk of overheating. 

 The market shook off a strong 3.3% rise in July durable-goods orders reported early in Wednesday's session. Economists had predicted a 0.9% increase in durables orders for July. 

 Wednesday's rise in Treasurys was concentrated in the intermediate and long maturities, flattening the yield curve. 

 The two-year note was hampered by Wednesday's auction and the fact that the issue is currently yielding only about 30 basis points more than the target overnight federal-funds rate, the tightest spread since early May. 

 "At 5.50%, the two-year gets a bit expensive to fed funds," said John Spinello, chief government strategist with Merrill Lynch in New York. "Any buyers that are still out there are probably going to have to go out on the curve." 

 With the Fed's policy decision out of the way, economic data are now seen as the key to market moves, with a flood of economic data due through the end of next week, capped with the August payrolls report on Sept. 3. 

 On Thursday, Commerce will release its revised look at second-quarter gross domestic product. The median forecast of 13 economists polled by Dow Jones Newswires and CNBC is for a 1.8% second-quarter GDP growth rate. On July 29, the Commerce Department estimated that the economy grew 2.3% over that time span. 

 On Friday, the government reports on July personal income and spending. 

 Copyright (c) 1999 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument djon000020020329dv8p03iok  



 HD Japan MOF Kuroda/Forex -2: After Yen Rise Overnight    WC132 words   PD25 August 1999   ET02:27   SNDow Jones International News   SCDJI   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP TOKYO (Dow Jones)--Japan's vice finance minister for international affairs Haruhiko Kuroda said Wednesday that he doesn't see any reason for the yen to rise against the dollar following a U.S. Federal Reserve board interest rate hike Tuesday. 

 Speaking to reporters upon entering the finance ministry, Kuroda said: "Economic logic is that if the U.S. raises its interest rates, there is no reason for the yen to rise against the dollar." 
   TD "Premature yen strengthening is undesirable, and we are ready to take appropriate steps if needed against rapid foreign exchange movements," he said. 

 The dollar was around Y110.60 early Wednesday morning, compared with around Y112.60 late Tuesday in Tokyo. 

 (END) Dow Jones Newswires 25-08-99 

 0027GMT 
   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m11 : Equity Markets | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REasiaz : Asia | easiaz : Eastern Asia | jap : Japan | namz : North America | usa : United States   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument dji0000020010826dv8p06a51  



 HD US Bond Outlook: Recovery Underway, But Upside Limited    BY By Brian Blackstone    WC771 words   PD25 August 1999   ET22:56   SNDow Jones International News   SCDJI   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP NEW YORK (Dow Jones)--The U.S. bond market has been running under a yellow caution flag throughout most of 1999. 

 But the market has righted itself, a process that started earlier this month when data showed a continued absence of inflationary pressures and the bond market got through a difficult quarterly refunding. 
   TD The recovery picked up speed Wednesday, after investors decided that Tuesday's interest rate hike by the Federal Reserve would be the last one for the year. 

 Wednesday's rally caps an impressive two-week run that has brought the yield on the 30-year Treasury bond down about 0.40 percentage point from a 22-month high of 6.27%. 

 And while there's more upside potential for Treasurys, the higher Federal funds rate - now 5.25% - will probably prevent a similar rally from occurring again anytime soon, some strategists say. 

 The U.S. central bank gave the market what it expected Tuesday: an increase in interest rates. The Fed's policy board raised the overnight lending and discount rates 0.25 percentage point and also maintained a neutral policy stance. 

 At the same time, the Fed hinted that it doesn't consider inflation a threat. 

 In a statement, the Federal Open Market Committee said that the 50-basis point rise in interest rates between June and August "should markedly diminish the risk of rising inflation going forward." That's a far cry from June 30, when the Fed said it "must be especially alert to the emergence, or potential emergence, of inflationary forces." 

 Tuesday's hike in the lending rate was priced in, but the market-friendly language the FOMC used was not. 

 "The (bond) market was not positioned for a constructive statement like that," said Richard Gilhooly, senior bond strategist at Paribas Capital Markets in New York. The steady decline in bond prices throughout 1999 left investors underweighted Treasurys, he added. 

 And with the Fed seen out of the picture for the foreseeable future, the bullish tone should continue, especially if upcoming data on payrolls, manufacturing, and consumer spending confirm that the U.S. economy is slowing. 


      Funds Rate Will Eventually Anchor Market



Strategists say there's more upside potential for bonds, especially in
longer-dated securities. And even though the higher Fed funds rate might
act as an anchor on the short end of the yield curve, those issues may
be able to eke out some more gains, especially as bond fund managers add
to their holdings to match month-end benchmark duration indexes.



Short-dated Treasury note yields tend to hover above the Fed funds
rate, especially if investors think the next policy move will be toward
higher interest rates. And even though most analysts think the Fed is
done for the year, many expect it will eventually have to raise rates
again, even if it isn't until next year.



The spread between the 5.25% Fed funds target rate and the two-year
note yield is now 30 basis points, the narrowest that spread has been
since May.



Gilhooly of Paribas thinks that the two-year note yield could drop as
low as 5.40%, although it would probably take more weak economic data to
achieve that.



But if there's more Treasury gains to be squeezed out, they'll be in
longer-dated issues like the 10-year note and 30-year bond. Those issues
are particularly sensitive to inflation expectations.



"The long end always does well when the Fed is seen being ahead of the
inflation curve," said Barry Evans, a portfolio manager at John Hancock
Funds in Boston. In a sign of investor confidence that inflation will
stay under wraps, gold prices hit a 20-year low Wednesday.



However, with the Treasury bond yield hovering just over 60 basis
points above the overnight lending rate, don't expect the market to
repeat the last two week's gains. Eventually, Treasury price gains might
be seen as selling opportunities.



"I don't mind selling another round" if the bond yield hits 5.75%,
Evans said. It's currently fetching 5.85%.



Of course, if an investor sells Treasurys he has to put the money
somewhere. Over the balance of the year, Evans favors corporate bonds,
since spreads between those issues and Treasurys are still high.



"Treasurys can't move much more and we're confident about the Fed, so
corporate spreads are going to come in," he added.
-By Brian Blackstone; 201-938-4156;
 brian.blackstone@dowjones.com



(END) Dow Jones Newswires 25-08-99



2056GMT

   RF4228   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m11 : Equity Markets | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument dji0000020010826dv8p068r3  



 HD Treasury Yields Signal Confidence In Fed - For Now    BY By Michael Casey    WC1,017 words   PD25 August 1999   ET21:52   SNDow Jones International News   SCDJI   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP NEW YORK (Dow Jones)--If he read it as a performance evaluation, Alan Greenspan could look at the U.S. Treasurys market and smile. 

 During the lead-up to, and then after the Federal Reserve's interest rate increase Tuesday, the gap between long- and short-term Treasury market rates has narrowed. In what's known as a "flattening" in the yield curve, the trend shows that bond investors believe the Fed chairman and his colleagues have inflation well under control. It's akin to an act of faith, one that some analysts believe has gone too far. 
   TD If the market firmly believed Tuesday's move was too small - that the Fed was too soft on inflation - there would be greater concern about long-dated rather than short-dated securities, analysts say. That's because investors would fear that rising prices in the future would eat into the real value of longer-term returns. 

 Relative to the short-end, then, yields on 30-year bonds would rise, or at least fall less dramatically, and the curve would steepen. That the opposite is happening is thus seen as a vote of confidence in the Fed, one that's been strengthened even further Wednesday with a rally in bonds that seems to laugh in the face of a strong July durable goods sales report. 

 "There is a lot of faith in the Fed's ability being displayed here," said Kevin Flanagan, money market economist with Morgan Stanley Dean Witter in New York. 

 "What the curve is telling you is that investors feel that the Fed is on top of the situation, that they believe they will succeed in preventing demand pressures from building in the economy ... but I wonder if we aren't getting ahead of ourselves," Flanagan said. He warned that the August employment report scheduled for next week could easily throw out more signs that the economy is at risk of overheating. 

 Since its peak of 6.27% on Aug. 12, the yield on the 30-year Treasury bond has fallen all the way back below 6.00%. As at 3:30 p.m. EDT Wednesday, the long bond was yielding 5.86%, against 5.93% late Tuesday, suggesting the market continues to look favorably upon the Fed's decision. 

 By maintaining its neutral policy bias and by issuing a statement that the two rate increases since June should "markedly diminish" inflationary risks, the Fed led investors to conclude that additional monetary tightening isn't imminent. 

 While this optimism showed up right across the curve, shorter-dated securities near the two-year maturities have underperformed the long end. The active two-year note yield has fallen from 5.77% on Aug. 12 to around 5.53% Wednesday. 


       Supply And Technical Factors At Work



Of course, there are other reasons for this divergence beyond Fed
worship.



Much of it is "supply related," said Edward Munshower, fixed income
portfolio manager at MacKay Shields in New York. He noted short-term
factors such as the market's cautious approach to the U.S. Treasury's
two-year notes auction Wednesday and longer-term "structural" factors
such as the government's recent decision to reduce its issuance of
30-year bonds to two a year from three.



Concern about oncoming supply tends to push bond prices lower and
yields higher. That the Treasury is reducing supply of longer-dated
securities in preference for shorter maturities thus has a
curve-flattening effect.



But there also is an inherent constraint on shorter-dated securities
when official short-term interest rates are raised. By increasing its
target federal funds rate to 5.25%, the Fed effectively has brought the
floor higher for the two-year yield.



"At 5.50%, the two-year gets a bit expensive to fed funds," said John
Spinello, chief government strategist with Merrill Lynch in New York.
"Any buyers that are still out there are probably going to have to go
out on the curve."



Then again, there are also many who believe these higher valuations
have left limited opportunities in the long end.



"A lot of the gains have just been from short positions being
covered," said Dave Connors, head government trader at Credit Suisse
First Boston in New York. "I don't think there is a whole lot more
upside."



Indeed, some believe the Fed's calming words Tuesday amount to nought,
as it may yet have to raise rates again at the next policy meeting in
October, especially if forthcoming economic data point to continued
inflationary pressure. Chairman Greenspan mightn't be in such control
after all, and that makes the 30-year bond a sell.



"Our view is that 25 or 50 basis points doesn't make much difference
to the strength of the economy in the grand scheme of things," said Dan
Bernstein, an analyst with Connecticut-based Bridgewater Associates. He
said the Fed's neutral policy stance was "historically meaningless" and
that inflation remains a real risk that the Fed will have to confront
some time in the near future.



      The Y2K Wild Card



Part of the problem for those who believe the yield curve should
steepen, though, is the question of Y2K. If the Fed is especially
concerned about potential liquidity shortages linked to the year-end
computer programming problem, it might be reluctant to raise rates again
until next year. If that's the case, the entire curve could hold
relatively steady around the current yield structure, as Treasurys might
be considered an appropriate safe haven in the event of a Y2K crisis.



While she's "not sure there is much value in the long end right now,"
Legg Mason portfolio manager Victoria Schwatka sees a "Y2K sort of play"
as "the only reason" why investors might hold onto longer-dated Treasury
issues.



After year-end, though, "we see rates being considerably higher than
they are right now," Schwatka said.
   -By Michael Casey; 201-938-2009
-michael.j.casey@dowjones.com



(END) Dow Jones Newswires 25-08-99



1952GMT

   RF4224   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m11 : Equity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument dji0000020010826dv8p068l7  



 HD Data Snap: US Existing Home Sales Drop From Record Pace    WC560 words   PD25 August 1999   ET16:32   SNDow Jones International News   SCDJI   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP
===========================================================
Existing Home Sales:     July     June     !Surprise: Yes !
     Home Sales:         -3.9     12.6%r   !Trend: Strong !
     Month's Supply:      4.4      4.9r    !Growth        !
                                           !Consens.:-5.1%!
===========================================================



WASHINGTON (Dow Jones)--In a possible sign that higher mortgage rates
may finally be having an impact on the robust housing market, existing
homes sales fell back from their record pace in July, dropping 3.9% to a
5.41 million annual rate, the National Association of Realtors said
Wednesday.

   TD The drop may be of little encouragement to the bond market, which had expected a larger decline from the surprisingly high level of home resales posted in June. 

 The June record home sales were revised upward to a 12.6% gain and a 5.63 million annual rate from the originally reported 10.6% gain and 5.53 million rate. 

 The Federal Reserve, which hiked short-term interest rates on Tuesday, may not take comfort in the number as the July rate is still the third highest on record. 

 The Fed raised short-term interest rates on Tuesday in an effort to forestall inflation. Financial markets interpreted the Fed's statement that the hike should "markedly diminish" inflation risks ahead, as well as its neutral bias toward further rate actions, as a sign that the Fed may have wrapped up its rate actions for this year. 

 "Most of the conditions one looks for to create a healthy market remain in place which suggests we will experience continued strong levels of home sales," said NAR president Sharon Millett. 

 In a survey of 16 economists polled by Dow Jones and CNBC, the median forecast for existing home sales called for a 5.1% drop to a 5.25 million annual rate. 

 The NAR reported the supply of homes on the market fell to 4.4 months from the revised 4.9 months seen in June. That's the lowest level of inventory since December 1994. 

 By region, sales were down in all regions. 

 Sales in the West fell 1.3% while sales in the South fell 4.1%. Home resales in the Midwest slipped 3.3% while the Northeast, the smallest market for existing homes, saw an 8.3% decrease. 

 The average home resale price fell to $171,200 in July from a revised $174,200 in June. 

 The housing market has long been expected to slow down from the giddy pace seen earlier in the year, when low lending rates and unseasonably warm winter weather caused a surge in home buying. 

 Interest rates have climbed since then, with mortgage finance giant Freddie Mac data showing the average rate on a 30-year conventional mortgage rose to 7.63% in July from 7.55% in June. But with jobs plentiful and incomes rising, many consumers have kept the housing market strong. Housing starts in July were reported up 5.7%, another stronger-than-expected reading. 

 Fed policy makers, however, have often said the effects of interest rate actions take some time to filter through to the rest of the economy. And some analysts have noted the increased use of adjustable rate mortgages by consumers as one way home buyers are dealing with the recent run-up in fixed-mortgage lending rates. 

 -Jonathan Nicholson; 202-862-9255 

 (END) Dow Jones Newswires 25-08-99 

 1432GMT 
   RF4016   NSccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m11 : Equity Markets | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument dji0000020010826dv8p06817  



 HD US Bond Outlook: Recovery Underway, But Upside Limited    BY By Brian Blackstone    WC772 words   PD25 August 1999   ET22:56   SNDow Jones News Service   SCDJ   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP NEW YORK (Dow Jones)--The U.S. bond market has been running under a yellow caution flag throughout most of 1999. 

 But the market has righted itself, a process that started earlier this month when data showed a continued absence of inflationary pressures and the bond market got through a difficult quarterly refunding. 
   TD The recovery picked up speed Wednesday, after investors decided that Tuesday's interest rate hike by the Federal Reserve would be the last one for the year. 

 Wednesday's rally caps an impressive two-week run that has brought the yield on the 30-year Treasury bond down about 0.40 percentage point from a 22-month high of 6.27%. 

 And while there's more upside potential for Treasurys, the higher Federal funds rate - now 5.25% - will probably prevent a similar rally from occurring again anytime soon, some strategists say. 

 The U.S. central bank gave the market what it expected Tuesday: an increase in interest rates. The Fed's policy board raised the overnight lending and discount rates 0.25 percentage point and also maintained a neutral policy stance. 

 At the same time, the Fed hinted that it doesn't consider inflation a threat. 

 In a statement, the Federal Open Market Committee said that the 50-basis point rise in interest rates between June and August "should markedly diminish the risk of rising inflation going forward." That's a far cry from June 30, when the Fed said it "must be especially alert to the emergence, or potential emergence, of inflationary forces." 

 Tuesday's hike in the lending rate was priced in, but the market-friendly language the FOMC used was not. 

 "The (bond) market was not positioned for a constructive statement like that," said Richard Gilhooly, senior bond strategist at Paribas Capital Markets in New York. The steady decline in bond prices throughout 1999 left investors underweighted Treasurys, he added. 

 And with the Fed seen out of the picture for the foreseeable future, the bullish tone should continue, especially if upcoming data on payrolls, manufacturing, and consumer spending confirm that the U.S. economy is slowing. 


      Funds Rate Will Eventually Anchor Market



Strategists say there's more upside potential for bonds, especially in
longer-dated securities. And even though the higher Fed funds rate might
act as an anchor on the short end of the yield curve, those issues may
be able to eke out some more gains, especially as bond fund managers add
to their holdings to match month-end benchmark duration indexes.



Short-dated Treasury note yields tend to hover above the Fed funds
rate, especially if investors think the next policy move will be toward
higher interest rates. And even though most analysts think the Fed is
done for the year, many expect it will eventually have to raise rates
again, even if it isn't until next year.



The spread between the 5.25% Fed funds target rate and the two-year
note yield is now 30 basis points, the narrowest that spread has been
since May.



Gilhooly of Paribas thinks that the two-year note yield could drop as
low as 5.40%, although it would probably take more weak economic data to
achieve that.



But if there's more Treasury gains to be squeezed out, they'll be in
longer-dated issues like the 10-year note and 30-year bond. Those issues
are particularly sensitive to inflation expectations.



"The long end always does well when the Fed is seen being ahead of the
inflation curve," said Barry Evans, a portfolio manager at John Hancock
Funds in Boston. In a sign of investor confidence that inflation will
stay under wraps, gold prices hit a 20-year low Wednesday.



However, with the Treasury bond yield hovering just over 60 basis
points above the overnight lending rate, don't expect the market to
repeat the last two week's gains. Eventually, Treasury price gains might
be seen as selling opportunities.



"I don't mind selling another round" if the bond yield hits 5.75%,
Evans said. It's currently fetching 5.85%.



Of course, if an investor sells Treasurys he has to put the money
somewhere. Over the balance of the year, Evans favors corporate bonds,
since spreads between those issues and Treasurys are still high.



"Treasurys can't move much more and we're confident about the Fed, so
corporate spreads are going to come in," he added.
-By Brian Blackstone; 201-938-4156;
 brian.blackstone@dowjones.com



(END) DOW JONES NEWS  08-25-99



04:56 PM

   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument dj00000020010827dv8p03u3a  



 HD U.S. Agencies: Pipeline Swells with Fannie $3.5 Billion    WC377 words   PD25 August 1999   ET23:00   SNCapital Markets Report   SCCM   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP NEW YORK (Dow Jones)--This week's agency securities pipeline is set to grow with talk having emerged Wednesday of a $3.5 billion two-part offering in the works from Fannie Mae. 

 It will consist of $3 billion of new 10-year benchmark notes and a $500 million minimum reopening of the 6 1/2% notes due May 2029. 
   TD The offering is expected to be launched Thursday and to be priced Friday, traders said. 

 Bear Stearns, Merrill Lynch & Co. and Morgan Stanley Dean Witter are joint lead managers on the deal. 

 Fannie Mae's 6 3/8% benchmark notes due June 2009 were bid at 0.84 percentage point and offered at 0.83. The 6 1/4% paper due May 2029 was bid at 0.94 and offered at 0.93. 

 Early price chatter on Fannie's forthcoming issues are about 0.005 percentage point over the existing benchmarks, traders said. 

 Agency spreads Wednesday ended about 0.02 to 0.03 percentage point tighter, giving back some of the 0.05 gained earlier. 

 The market again took its cue from narrowing swap spreads coupled with "good buying" in the morning, a trader said. 

 With the 0.25 percentage point interest rate hike Tuesday, there is some feeling in the market that the Fed is done for the year, he added. 

 But "neutral means he (Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan) can still do something," an analyst noted. "I would think there's one more, but it's too early to say." 

 Supply Thursday totaled $892.5 million, with the Federal Home Loan Banks' 11 issues accounting for $822.5 million. 

 FHLB offered five Tap issues, including $231 million of 6% three-years, $102 million of 6 1/4% five-years and $101 million of 6 1/8% five-years. 

 Private Export Funding Corp., a quasi-agency known as PEFCO, also issued $150 million of 10-year notes. Pricing was pegged to Fannie's 6 3/8% 10-year benchmark notes. 


Fannie Mae also sold $70 million total of seven- and 10-year
medium-term notes.
-By Shella Calamba; 201 938-2006;
shella.calamba@dowjones.com



(END) Dow Jones Newswires  08-25-99



1700EDT

   RF4122   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | e21 : Government Finance | e212 : Government Borrowing | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument cm00000020010826dv8p01e6c  



 HD =US Bond Outlook: Recovery Underway, But Upside Limited    BY By Brian Blackstone    WC771 words   PD25 August 1999   ET22:56   SNCapital Markets Report   SCCM   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP NEW YORK (Dow Jones)--The U.S. bond market has been running under a yellow caution flag throughout most of 1999. 

 But the market has righted itself, a process that started earlier this month when data showed a continued absence of inflationary pressures and the bond market got through a difficult quarterly refunding. 
   TD The recovery picked up speed Wednesday, after investors decided that Tuesday's interest rate hike by the Federal Reserve would be the last one for the year. 

 Wednesday's rally caps an impressive two-week run that has brought the yield on the 30-year Treasury bond down about 0.40 percentage point from a 22-month high of 6.27%. 

 And while there's more upside potential for Treasurys, the higher Federal funds rate - now 5.25% - will probably prevent a similar rally from occurring again anytime soon, some strategists say. 

 The U.S. central bank gave the market what it expected Tuesday: an increase in interest rates. The Fed's policy board raised the overnight lending and discount rates 0.25 percentage point and also maintained a neutral policy stance. 

 At the same time, the Fed hinted that it doesn't consider inflation a threat. 

 In a statement, the Federal Open Market Committee said that the 50-basis point rise in interest rates between June and August "should markedly diminish the risk of rising inflation going forward." That's a far cry from June 30, when the Fed said it "must be especially alert to the emergence, or potential emergence, of inflationary forces." 

 Tuesday's hike in the lending rate was priced in, but the market-friendly language the FOMC used was not. 

 "The (bond) market was not positioned for a constructive statement like that," said Richard Gilhooly, senior bond strategist at Paribas Capital Markets in New York. The steady decline in bond prices throughout 1999 left investors underweighted Treasurys, he added. 

 And with the Fed seen out of the picture for the foreseeable future, the bullish tone should continue, especially if upcoming data on payrolls, manufacturing, and consumer spending confirm that the U.S. economy is slowing. 


      Funds Rate Will Eventually Anchor Market



Strategists say there's more upside potential for bonds, especially in
longer-dated securities. And even though the higher Fed funds rate might
act as an anchor on the short end of the yield curve, those issues may
be able to eke out some more gains, especially as bond fund managers add
to their holdings to match month-end benchmark duration indexes.



Short-dated Treasury note yields tend to hover above the Fed funds
rate, especially if investors think the next policy move will be toward
higher interest rates. And even though most analysts think the Fed is
done for the year, many expect it will eventually have to raise rates
again, even if it isn't until next year.



The spread between the 5.25% Fed funds target rate and the two-year
note yield is now 30 basis points, the narrowest that spread has been
since May.



Gilhooly of Paribas thinks that the two-year note yield could drop as
low as 5.40%, although it would probably take more weak economic data to
achieve that.



But if there's more Treasury gains to be squeezed out, they'll be in
longer-dated issues like the 10-year note and 30-year bond. Those issues
are particularly sensitive to inflation expectations.



"The long end always does well when the Fed is seen being ahead of the
inflation curve," said Barry Evans, a portfolio manager at John Hancock
Funds in Boston. In a sign of investor confidence that inflation will
stay under wraps, gold prices hit a 20-year low Wednesday.



However, with the Treasury bond yield hovering just over 60 basis
points above the overnight lending rate, don't expect the market to
repeat the last two week's gains. Eventually, Treasury price gains might
be seen as selling opportunities.



"I don't mind selling another round" if the bond yield hits 5.75%,
Evans said. It's currently fetching 5.85%.



Of course, if an investor sells Treasurys he has to put the money
somewhere. Over the balance of the year, Evans favors corporate bonds,
since spreads between those issues and Treasurys are still high.



"Treasurys can't move much more and we're confident about the Fed, so
corporate spreads are going to come in," he added.
-By Brian Blackstone; 201-938-4156;
 brian.blackstone@dowjones.com



(END) Dow Jones Newswires  08-25-99



1656EDT

   RF4228   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument cm00000020010826dv8p01e6b  



 HD Minneapolis, Dallas Fed Banks Raise Discount Rates    WC147 words   PD25 August 1999   ET22:25   SNCapital Markets Report   SCCM   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP WASHINGTON (Dow Jones)--The Federal Reserve Board on Wednesday approved requests from two regional Fed banks to increase their discount rates. 

 The move was a merely a technical one coming after the Board approved requests from 10 of the 12 Fed district banks at Tuesday's Federal Open Market Committee meeting, raising the discount rate to 4.75% from 4.50%. 
   TD With Wednesday's action, the new rate became effective immediately for the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis and will be effective Thursday for the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas. 


The discount rate is the interest rate charged to banks when they
borrow from their district Fed banks. Because so few banks use the
discount window, the discount rate is considered to be largely symbolic.
-By Jonathan Nicholson; 202-862-9255



(END) Dow Jones Newswires  08-25-99



1625EDT

   RF4227   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States | usc : Midwest U.S. | usmn : Minnesota | uss : Southern U.S. | ustx : Texas   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument cm00000020010826dv8p01e61  



 HD U.S. Swaps: Spreads Move Widely On Strong Goods Numbers    WC379 words   PD25 August 1999   ET22:19   SNCapital Markets Report   SCCM   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP NEW YORK (Dow Jones)-- A roller-coaster ride in swaps spreads continued Wednesday as swaps couldn't seem to make up their mind as to what levels they wanted to achieve. 

 "Stuff has been all over," said one trader. 
   TD The two-year spread, which was said to have traded heavily, opened at 55 basis points, but closed at 59.50, while the five-year spread, opened at 80 and closed at 84. Both spreads were below Tuesday's closes but just barely. 

 A basis point is 0.01 percentage point. 

 The 10-year spread opened at a wide bid-offer spread of 100.50-94.50 but soon calmed down to a normal four basis point bid-offer spread and closed at 100 basis points middle. 

 The 30-year spread opened at 107.50-101.50 and finished at 107 middle. 

 Some receiving was seen in the market, but most players noted that positions had already been set up ahead of Tuesday's Federal Open Market Committee interest rate announcement. 

 Meanwhile, there is some skepticism that the Federal Reserve won't raise rates again, and the market remained wary. 

 "Right now, the numbers are going to determine swap spreads," said one trader, adding that the move outward in spreads came as a strong durable goods number and a stronger-than-expected housing number was announced. 

 "The numbers may show inflationary pressure is still there, and no one trusts that the Fed won't raise rates like they did last time," he added. 

 This sentiment was echoed throughout the market. 

 Meanwhile, Wells Fargo priced a $1.5 billion dual-tranched global debt offering via Bear Stearns and Morgan Stanley Dean Witter. 

 The fixed-rate $750 million three-year tranche was said to have been swapped. It didn't have much effect on the market, traders said. 


Maturity   Swap Spread    Treasury Yield   Swap Rate
2 yr         59.50           5.526           6.1210
5 yr         84.00           5.608           6.4480
10 yr        100.25          5.717           6.7195
30 yr        107.25          5.855           6.9275
   *Rates at 3 pm EDT
-By Paula Froelich; 201-938-2010;
paula.froelich@dowjones.com



(END) Dow Jones Newswires  08-25-99



1619EDT

   RF4275   NSc17 : Funding/Capital | c172 : Corporate Debt Instruments | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | e21 : Government Finance | e212 : Government Borrowing | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m15 : Derivative Securities | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument cm00000020010826dv8p01e5y  



 SEInvestment   HDRates confidence pushes Dow to record   BYTony Boyd      WC372 words   PD25 August 1999   SNThe Australian Financial Review   SCAFNR   EDLate   PG41   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 1999. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.   
   LPStong buying of Internet stocks and interest rate-sensitive financial companies pushed the Dow Jones Industrial Index to a record high as Wall St let the US Federal Reserve Board know that it thinks today's expected rate hike will be the last this year.

Market consensus was for a 25 basis points rise to take the Federal funds rate to 5.25 per cent, but a minority thought that there would be no increase and some said it would be half a percentage point.
   TDAmong those forecasting a 50 basis points rise was Deutsche Bank Group chief economist Dr Norbet Walter.

"It is tactically very difficult to see the central bank raise rates any time later this year because you would not do it in the stockmarket crash month of October and you could not do it in November or December because of Y2K," he said.

Dr Walter said a 50 points increase would probably convince the European Central Bank not to raise rates in Europe.

Mercantile Mutual fixed interest director Mr Andrew Moylan said an increase of 50 points was possible because the US "neutral cash rate" was 5.5 per cent.

On Monday night, Wall St closed on the day's high and at a new peak of 11,299.8.

The market action was similar to the 263 point buying wave on the eve of the last tightening on June 30. The Dow had risen 350 points in the lead-up to tonight's meeting.

A stronger US dollar, which has risen ¥1.5 in 36 hours, is likely to remove a bearish note on Wall St.

Traders had feared the weaker dollar showed foreigners were unwilling to fund the country's $US300 billion ($471 billion) current account deficit.

Prudential Securities technical research director Mr Ralph Acampora said the firm's 12,000 upside target for the Dow was "still do-able despite the multitude of negative technical indicators".

Higher US interest rates may add to volatility in Latin American markets.

Yields there have risen on corporate and government bonds over the past six weeks.

Risk aversion is unlikely to be diminished after the Federal Open Market Committee meeting.
   NSeffund : Federal Funds Rate | e1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   PUBFairfax Media Management Pty Limited   ANDocument AFNR000020111227dv8p0087m  



 SEBusiness   HDUS Rates Hope Lifts Ords   BYRichard Salmons      WC690 words   PD24 August 1999   SNThe Age   SCAGEE   PG4   LAEnglish   CY© 1999 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.   www.theage.com.au
   LPThe sharemarket rose yesterday as investors bid up stocks sensitive to interest rates, such as banks and Telstra, ahead of a United States meeting on interest rates.

The rise in the local market reflected similar gains in Wall Street stocks on Friday night. Telstra was also helped by the anticipation of a bumper profit result when it reports on Thursday.
   TDThe All Ordinaries rose 38.8points, or 1.28 per cent, to 3064.2. The gain was comparable to the 127-point rise in Wall Street's Dow Jones Industrial Average, which closed on Friday at 11,100 - just 1per cent shy of the record set in July.

Investors were bidding up the local market, as they did Wall Street stocks, out of optimism the US Federal Reserve will decide to raise interest rates by only 0.25 percentage points at its policy-setting meeting late tonight, Melbourne time.

Mr Rory Robertson, interest rate strategist at Macquarie Bank, said: ``Reuters poll shows that 29 of 30 US economists expect the Fed to tighten by (0.25 percentage points) on Tuesday. The market sees it as a done deal.''

The Telecommunications Index on the Australian Stock Exchange jumped 2.4per cent yesterday, and its weight was enough to contribute almost 20per cent of the gains on the All Ordinaries. Telstra, which makes up two-thirds of the telecoms index, rose almost 3.5per cent, or 28 cents, to 48.38.

Analysts expect Telstra to announce on Thursday a 17per cent increase in annual profit, to an Australian record of $3.5billion. Telstra has said it will spend $350million upgrading its copper network. The number-two phone company, Cable & Wireless Optus, was up five cents, or 1.4 per cent, to $3.66. Banking was the biggest single contributor to the gains in the All Ordinaries, with St George Bank rising 24 cents, or 2.3 per cent, to $10.82, Commonwealth Bank up 43cents to $24.43 and National Australia Bank 44 cents to $24, even though analysts were by not certain the Fed would do what was expected.

Mr Robertson said of tomorrow night's meeting: ``We are surprised by the lack of dissenting voices, as we see the decision as too close to make a confident call.

``Just as there is a case for moving tomorrow, there is a case to wait and see for another six weeks until the 5 October meeting,'' he said.

Among companies reporting profit results yesterday, Foster's Brewing Group surged 15 cents, or 3.4 per cent, to $4.62, after it beat expectations with a 33 per cent increase in full-year earnings per share.

The TV network and magazine business, Publishing & Broadcasting, rose one cent to $9.79 after it reported earnings for the second half unchanged from the previous year. PBL's Internet spin-off, ecorp, was unchanged at $2.05 after announcing a full-year loss of $23.4 million, in line with prospectus forecasts.

The biotechnology developer Amrad Corp was five cents stronger at 88 cents after announcing a full-year loss similar to last year's pre-abnormals result. The rival drug developer CSL, which announced a net profit of $47.4 million last week, jumped 40 cents to $17.40.

The building materials group James Hardie Industries added four cents to $4.52 after strong US construction activity contributed to a 43 per cent increase in first-quarter profit.

The biggest local gold miner, Normandy Mining, was steady at $1.14, despite turning in a better fourth-quarter profit than expected, amid 20-year lows in the gold price.

* SUMMARY: Stocks were boosted by Wall Street's strong showing on Friday, and optimism on US interest rates and Telstra's profit result. The All Ords gained 38.8 points, or 1.28 per cent, to 3064.2. The All Resources did better, adding 27.7 points, or 2.09 per cent, to finish at 1355.5, while the All Industrials grew 57.8 points, or 1.11 per cent, to 5265.7. 
   COtcoma : Telstra Corporation Ltd   INi7902 : Telecommunication Services   NSm11 : Equity Markets | e1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | namz : North America   PUBFairfax Media Management Pty Limited   ANDocument agee000020010825dv8o0044p  

HDProfile:  Federal Reserve  expected to raise interest rates   WC780 words   PD24 August 1999   SNNBC News: Today   SCTODA   LAEnglish   CY(c) Copyright 1999, NBC Universal Inc. All Rights Reserved.    
   LPMATT LAUER, co-host:

On CLOSE UP this morning, your money. The Federal Reserve is expected to raise interest rates later today. This comes on the heels of a record-breaking day on Wall Street Monday, where the Dow Jones industrial average soared to new highs. Watching all of this, of course, is CNBC's Ron Insana.
   TDRon, good morning to you.

RON INSANA reporting:

Good morning, Matt.

LAUER: I've always heard that--that the market is uncertain on the day or days before an expected interest rate announcement from the Fed. Why all the confidence yesterday?

INSANA: Well, there is increasing certainty that this interest rate hike from the Federal Reserve, if it, indeed, comes today, might be the last one for the year. And so the stock market is essentially looking through today's event, and deciding that it's clear sailing for the next several months.

LAUER: So they're saying `Mr. Greenspan, we understand you're going to raise the rates, and then you're going to leave us alone.' And that's good news for the economy?

INSANA: It's great news for the economy. It's great news for the stock market which historically doesn't like higher interest rates. Financial stocks have been rallying now sharply for three days. American Express, for instance, went to a new all-time high. That might even be a hint that the Fed could postpone an interest rate hike, although most economists believe that we're still on tap for one.

LAUER: So it's not a done deal. So it could go either way still?

INSANA: And there are some private research groups--institutions that say it's a 30 percent chance the Fed won't even act today at all.

LAUER: One of the things that caught the attention of a lot of people is that--that Dow was up markedly yesterday...

INSANA: Yes.

LAUER: ...on very low volume of trading.

INSANA: Yeah, kind of a phenomenon of summer. I mean, it was a summer Monday, and then a lot of players are, you know, in the Hamptons here on the East Coast, and they come back to work late. So the volume's a little thinner than normal because of that phenomenon.

LAUER: Over the last nine days, the market's up something like 600 points.

INSANA: Yeah.

LAUER: But there's a fundamental in there that I know has some people concerned, and that is that there are a re--relatively small number of advancing stocks over that time. What does that mean for those companies or for other companies?

INSANA: Well, it means that the generals are going to new highs by themselves. The soldiers aren't following the lead.

LAUER: Generals like who?

INSANA: The big stocks, like General Electric was very strong, American Express, J.P. Morgan, City Group in the financial sector. Those stocks are very strong. But the broad list of stocks on the New York Stock Exchange haven't moved to new highs, and they're not participating fully yet in the rally.

LAUER: So you're--you're the average investor. You're trying to see if Mr. Bree--Greenspan walks in with a briefcase this morning...

INSANA: Yes.

LAUER: ...or you're trying to figure out all the signs. What is the advice for the average investor?

INSANA: Well, stay the course for now. I mean, there are no real indications that there's anything seriously wrong with the stock market. There was a summer correction. The Dow fell about 7 percent from its high, the NASDAQ about 14 percent from its high. This is fairly normal activity given the runoff we've seen since last October. So as long as the Fed just raises rates a quarter point, as long as its monetary policy goes back to neutral after a rate hike today, then I think everybody on Wall Street will be quite comfortable.

LAUER: So the big picture when you look at the market over the past year, it's up 23 percent in that area.

INSANA: Yes.

LAUER: There's no end in sight to this market?

INSANA: Not for now, unless the Fed were to raise interest rates more aggressively as we move to the end of the year. Then people would rethink that proposition pretty noticeably.

LAUER: Ran Insana, great to see you.

INSANA: Thanks, Matt.

LAUER: It is 7:11. Of course, you can follow the markets all day long on CNBC on cable. Seven eleven, as I said. Now here's Jodi.

JODI APPLEGATE, co-host:

Thank you, Matt.
   COfed : Federal Reserve Board   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSm11 : Equity Markets | e1202 : Interest Rates | ntra : Transcript | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBBurrelle?? Information Services   ANDocument TODA000020120224dv8o01hro  

HDProfile:  Federal Reserve  expected to raise interest rates      WC780 words   PD24 August 1999   SNNBC News: Today   SCTODA   LAEnglish   CY(c) Copyright 1999, NBC Universal Inc. All Rights Reserved.    
   LPMATT LAUER, co-host:   

On CLOSE UP this morning, your money. The Federal Reserve is expected to raise interest rates later today. This comes on the heels of a record-breaking day on Wall Street Monday, where the Dow Jones industrial average soared to new highs. Watching all of this, of course, is CNBC's Ron Insana.   
   TDRon, good morning to you.   

RON INSANA reporting:   

Good morning, Matt.   

LAUER: I've always heard that--that the market is uncertain on the day or days before an expected interest rate announcement from the Fed. Why all the confidence yesterday?   

INSANA: Well, there is increasing certainty that this interest rate hike from the Federal Reserve, if it, indeed, comes today, might be the last one for the year. And so the stock market is essentially looking through today's event, and deciding that it's clear sailing for the next several months.   

LAUER: So they're saying `Mr. Greenspan, we understand you're going to raise the rates, and then you're going to leave us alone.' And that's good news for the economy?   

INSANA: It's great news for the economy. It's great news for the stock market which historically doesn't like higher interest rates. Financial stocks have been rallying now sharply for three days.  American Express, for instance, went to a new all-time high. That might even be a hint that the Fed could postpone an interest rate hike, although most economists believe that we're still on tap for one.   

LAUER: So it's not a done deal. So it could go either way still?   

INSANA: And there are some private research groups--institutions that say it's a 30 percent chance the Fed won't even act today at all.   

LAUER: One of the things that caught the attention of a lot of people is that--that Dow was up markedly yesterday...   

INSANA: Yes.   

LAUER: ...on very low volume of trading.   

INSANA: Yeah, kind of a phenomenon of summer. I mean, it was a summer Monday, and then a lot of players are, you know, in the Hamptons here on the East Coast, and they come back to work late. So the volume's a little thinner than normal because of that phenomenon.   

LAUER: Over the last nine days, the market's up something like 600 points.   

INSANA: Yeah.   

LAUER: But there's a fundamental in there that I know has some people concerned, and that is that there are a re--relatively small number of advancing stocks over that time. What does that mean for those companies or for other companies?   

INSANA: Well, it means that the generals are going to new highs by themselves. The soldiers aren't following the lead.   

LAUER: Generals like who?   

INSANA: The big stocks, like  General Electric was very strong,  American Express,  J.P. Morgan, City Group in the financial sector. Those stocks are very strong. But the broad list of stocks on the New York Stock Exchange haven't moved to new highs, and they're not participating fully yet in the rally.   

LAUER: So you're--you're the average investor. You're trying to see if Mr. Bree--Greenspan walks in with a briefcase this morning...   

INSANA: Yes.   

LAUER: ...or you're trying to figure out all the signs. What is the advice for the average investor?   

INSANA: Well, stay the course for now. I mean, there are no real indications that there's anything seriously wrong with the stock market. There was a summer correction. The Dow fell about 7 percent from its high, the NASDAQ about 14 percent from its high. This is fairly normal activity given the runoff we've seen since last October. So as long as the Fed just raises rates a quarter point, as long as its monetary policy goes back to neutral after a rate hike today, then I think everybody on Wall Street will be quite comfortable.   

LAUER: So the big picture when you look at the market over the past year, it's up 23 percent in that area.   

INSANA: Yes.   

LAUER: There's no end in sight to this market?   

INSANA: Not for now, unless the Fed were to raise interest rates more aggressively as we move to the end of the year. Then people would rethink that proposition pretty noticeably.   

LAUER: Ran Insana, great to see you.   

INSANA: Thanks, Matt.   

LAUER: It is 7:11. Of course, you can follow the markets all day long on CNBC on cable. Seven eleven, as I said. Now here's Jodi.   

JODI APPLEGATE, co-host:   

Thank you, Matt.   
   NSm11 : Equity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ntra : Transcript | e1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBBurrelle's Information Services   ANDocument TODA000020070819dv8o004fh  

HD If Interest Rates Rise, Demand for Loans to Remain Steady, Experts Say    BY Amber Veverka    WC656 words   PD24 August 1999   SNKRTBN Knight-Ridder Tribune Business News: The Charlotte Observer - North Carolina   SCKRTBN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright (C) 1999 KRTBN Knight Ridder Tribune Business News; Source: World Reporter (TM)
   LP Interest rates may be rising, but that's apparently not enough to sate business borrowers' appetite for credit. 

 The Federal Reserve will announce today whether it will raise interest rates, and most economists expect a quarter-percentage point bump up in the fed funds rate, the rate at which banks lend to each other. It would be the second rate increase in eight weeks. 
   TD But Carolinas lenders and economists say they haven't seen a slowdown in demand for traditional commercial loans to small and mid-size businesses, which depend heavily on banks for financing. 

 Lee Keesler, First Union commercial sales manager for the Metrolina region, works with companies with sales from $10 million to $100 million. He said he's seen no change in recent borrowing volume. 

 "What we have noticed is interest on the part of the marketplace to manage interest-rate risk in a rising-rate environment, so people are much more interested in locking into fixed interest rates," Keesler said. 

 The June Fed rate hike didn't have an impact on commercial borrowing, Wachovia Chief Financial Officer Bob McCoy said, and action today also is unlikely to. 

 "When you look at a real estate developer who has built into his project a certain rate of borrowing (which is) built into the rent rolls, and you increase the rate, he has to make the decision: Can he pass the rate on in rent rolls or take a lower profit margin?" McCoy said. "I haven't heard of projects being deferred or stopped because of interest rate increases." 

 The prime rate, a rate used to determine many small-business loans, is at 8 percent, up from 7.75 in June. A year ago, the rate was 8.5 percent. 

 If loan terms are tightening, lenders aren't saying so. Those interviewed said the Carolinas' economy is robust enough -- and competition between banks is fierce enough -- that they can't afford to get tougher on terms now. 

 Higher rates will first be felt by the smallest businesses, whose owners raise financing through a residential home equity loan, said Mark Vitner, First Union economist. Rates on those loans will reprice almost immediately after an action by the Fed. 

 Businesses that are raising money by issuing stock or selling bonds have faced some difficulty, some of which has been alleviated as the markets absorbed the expectation of a Fed rate hike. 

 Some companies, like Atlanta-based AirGate PCS Inc., recently shelved equity and bond offerings because of market volatility and will go to market again after Labor Day. Delta Woodside, the S.C. maker of Duck Head clothing, shelved plans to spin off its apparel units because the bond market has been weak. Bond prices have suffered as companies have flooded the market with offerings, increasing supply at a time when investor demand was down. 

 On Monday, the stock market surged, moving the Dow Jones Industrial Average up 199.15, or 1.8 percent, to 11,299.76, its first record close since July 16. The market was up partly because there's a growing belief the Fed may not raise rates when it meets again in October. 

 The effect of any rate increase today on business borrowing may be ultimately overshadowed by uncertainty surrounding the Y2K, the century-date change that some fear could mean widespread computer glitches. 

 "I hear virtually nobody cutting back on any expansion plans because of this increase in rates," said Dave Orr, First Union chief economist. 

 "I would say the thing that's not involved with this rate hike, but I think is most on people's minds in the third quarter, is a lot of companies trying to borrow money ahead of the Y2K window, so to speak. ... The concept is `I don't have my money in hand, so I'll do my borrowing now.' " 
   NSc15 : Performance | c152 : Earnings Projections | c1521 : Analyst Comment/Recommendation | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | nanl : Analysis | ncat : Content Types   REasiaz : Asia | gulfstz : Persian Gulf Regions | meastz : Middle East | namz : North America | qatar : Qatar | usa : United States | wasiaz : Western Asia   IPDEconomic News | Comment & Analysis | General News | Interest Rates | Economic Indicators | United States of America, Americas~US | Americas | North America | Pacific Rim | Federal_Reserve_USA   ANDocument krtbn00020010828dv8o01j6l  



 HD Verbatim Text Of FOMC Announcement    WC256 words   PD24 August 1999   ET20:18   SNDow Jones International News   SCDJI   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP NEW YORK (Dow Jones)--The following is the verbatim statement of the Federal Reserve Open Market Committee announcement following their meeting Tuesday afternoon. 

 The Federal Open Market Committee today voted to raise its target for the federal funds rate by 25 basis points to 5-1/4 percent. In a related action, the Board of Governors approved a 25 basis point increase in the discount rate to 4-3/4 percent. 
   TD With financial markets functioning more normally, and with persistent strength in domestic demand, foreign economies firming and labor markets remaining very tight, the degree of monetary ease required to address the global financial market turmoil of last fall is no longer consistent with sustained, noninflationary, economic expansion. 

 Today's increase in the federal funds rate, together with the policy action in June and the firming of conditions more generally in U.S. financial markets over recent months, should markedly diminish the risk of rising inflation going forward. As a consequence, the directive the Federal Open Market Committee adopted is symmetrical with regard to the outlook for policy over the near term. 

 In taking the discount rate action, the Federal Reserve Board approved requests submitted by the Boards of Directors of the Federal Reserve Banks of Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, Kansas City, and San Francisco. The discount rate is the interest rate that is charged depository institutions when they borrow from their district Federal Reserve Banks. 

 (END) Dow Jones Newswires 24-08-99 

 1818GMT 
   RF4214   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m11 : Equity Markets | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | m131 : Money Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument dji0000020010826dv8o069ks  



 HD FOMC Hikes -2: Move Had Been Widely Expected    WC326 words   PD24 August 1999   ET20:18   SNCapital Markets Report   SCCM   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP WASHINGTON (Dow Jones)--The Federal Reserve raised the federal funds rate and the discount rate by 25 basis points each, but maintained its neutral stance toward future policy action. 

 The fed funds rate target now stands at 5.25%, while the discount rate is 4.75%. 
   TD "Today's increase in the federal funds rate, together with the policy action in June and the firming of conditions more generally in U.S. financial markets over recent months, should markedly diminish the risk of rising inflation going forward. As a consequence, the directive the Federal Open Market Committee adopted is symmetrical with regard to the outlook for policy over the near term," the Fed said Tuesday. 

 The rate hikes, coming after a 25 basis point hike in the fed funds rate on June 30, had been widely expected. 

 In boosting the discount rate, the Fed said it acted on requests from boards of the Fed regional banks of Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, Kansas City and San Francisco. The discount rate is the rate charged to depository institutions when they borrow from their district Fed banks. 

 While inflation has remained relatively tame, Fed officials have expressed concern over the low rate of unemployment and its potential to stoke inflationary wage pressures. 

 Economic growth slowed to around a 2.3% annual pace in the second quarter, well below the first quarter's 4.3% rate, but the economy has continued to exhibit signs of strength, particularly in interest rate-sensitive sectors such as housing and automobiles. 

 The minutes of Tuesday's FOMC meeting will be made public on Oct. 7, after the usual lag of about six weeks. The vote tally for the FOMC's action Tuesday on the fed funds rate will be published in those minutes. 

 The next FOMC meeting is slated for Oct. 5. 

 (END) Dow Jones Newswires  08-24-99 

 1418EDT 
   RF4213   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument cm00000020010826dv8o01dt7  



 HD =Fed Watch: Fed Likely Done For '99, But Data Still Key    BY By Brian Blackstone    WC430 words   PD24 August 1999   ET22:14   SNCapital Markets Report   SCCM   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP NEW YORK (Dow Jones)--The U.S. central bank signaled to investors that Tuesday's hike in interest rates could be the last one this year. 

 Presuming, of course, that the economy performs the way the Federal Reserve thinks it will. 
   TD As expected, the Fed raised its target rate for overnight lending 0.25 percentage point to 5.25% and increased the discount rate by the same amount to 4.75%. The discount rate is the interest rate charged to banks when they borrow from regional Federal Reserve banks. The central bank also maintained a neutral policy stance. 

 In a statement, the Federal Open Market Committee said that the 50-basis point rise in interest rates between June and August "should markedly diminish the risk of rising inflation going forward." That a far cry from June 30, when the Fed said it "must be especially alert to the emergence, or potential emergence, of inflationary forces." 

 "The tone (of Tuesday's statement) is far friendlier than the tone of the press release that accompanied the tightening undertaken on June 30," said Elliott Platt, chief economist at Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette in New York. 

 Kathleen Camilli, director of economic research at Tucker Anthony in New York, added that Tuesday's FOMC statement, "leads one to believe (the Fed is) done for now." 

 Indeed, of the 30 primary dealer economists polled in advance of the Tuesday's meeting, 24 predicted that the Fed funds rate would close the year at 5.25%. The Fed's statement will do little to alter that perception. 

 But that also presumes the economy will continue to moderate and that inflationary pressures will stay under wraps, economists say. The Fed expects the economy to grow at a 3.5% to 3.75% clip in 1999 and inflation to stay between 2.25% to 2.5%. 

 Of course, there's nothing preventing the Fed from hiking rates again this year, especially if upcoming data show a reacceleration in domestic demand or further tightening in labor markets. The Fed's rate-setting board meets next Oct. 5. 

 Investors will get August readings on payrolls, retail sales and inflation between now and October. If the unemployment rate were to tumble a couple of tenths of a percentage point to 4.1%, or if it looks as if third quarter growth will reaccelerate to 4%, then the Fed could tighten again in six weeks, some Fed watchers say. 

 (MORE) Dow Jones Newswires  08-24-99 

 1614EDT 
   RF1043 4043   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument cm00000020010826dv8o01dvc  



 HD Discount Rate Hike Vote Unanimous Among Fed Bd Members    WC105 words   PD24 August 1999   ET20:39   SNCapital Markets Report   SCCM   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP WASHINGTON (Dow Jones)--The Federal Reserve Board voted 5-0 to raise the discount rate at their meeting Tuesday, a Federal Reserve spokesman said. 

 The discount rate, the interest rate charged to banks when they borrow from their district Fed banks, is set by the board of governors, while the higher profile federal funds rate is set by the board and voting presidents of the banks. 
   TD The board said it acted to raise the discount rate on requests from 10 of the Fed system's 12 regional banks. 

 (END) Dow Jones Newswires  08-24-99 

 1439EDT 
   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument cm00000020010826dv8o01dtl  



 SEBUSINESS   HDWHAT'S UP TODAY     WC113 words   PD24 August 1999   SNSt. Louis Post-Dispatch   SCSLMO   EDEDITION: FIVE STAR LIFT   PGPAGE: C6   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 1999, St. Louis Post-Dispatch.  All Rights Reserved.  
   LPThe big news expected today should come from the Federal Reserve's Open Market Committee. The central bank is widely expected to announce an interest rate hike in an effort to head off inflation pressures in a domestic economy that keeps racing along. The market would likely show more surprise if the Fed did not act to raise rates this week.  

A key question among economy watchers is whether the Fed will raise rates again in the near future. At least one analyst suggested a quarter-point rate increase could help stabilize the dollar's value against the Japanese Yen, helping hold prices of imported goods in check.  
   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusmo : Missouri | namz : North America | usa : United States | usc : Midwest U.S.   IPDLBIZ | ECONOMY | GOVERNMENT | AGENCY   PUBSt. Louis Post-Dispatch   ANDocument SLMO000020040605dv8o00xcm  

HDNewscast: Fed raises interest rates a quarter percent   WC642 words   PD24 August 1999   SNNBC News: Nightly News   SCNTLN   LAEnglish   CY(c) Copyright 1999, NBC Universal Inc. All Rights Reserved.    
   LPBRIAN WILLIAMS, anchor:

It was the hike heard 'round the world. The Federal Reserve today sent interest rates up just a quarter of one percent, a small move for now. It may have a big effect later on. The US economy is just like a fast train. Do you really want to slow it down, even if it's bound to arrive ahead of schedule? Is it better to be safe than sorry? Well, today the Fed said yes. Economists are saying watch the next few months. Wall Street said no big deal, at least not yet. The Dow was down 16 points and change. NASDAQ was up over 32 points.
   TD(Stock report follows)

WILLIAMS: CNBC's Ron Insana's been watching the markets all day and what this will mean for American families.

RON INSANA reporting:

High anxiety on Wall Street today, as the Federal Reserve raises interest rates, a decision that touches all American families.

Mr. WAYNE ANGELL (Bear Stearns Chief Economist): Three months ago they said, `Hey, we may have a problem with inflation.' And now they've said, `Hey, we've fixed it.'

INSANA: The Fed's decision, boosting two key interest rates by a quarter of a point, is the latest attempt to cool down a hot economy and head off inflation. It's the second quarter-point rate increase in six weeks. In its statement, the Fed says today's action, along with the June hike, "should markedly diminish the risk of inflation going forward." It may also make it unlikely that the Fed will raise interest rates again anytime soon. What does the rate hike mean for consumers?

Mr. LYLE GRAMLEY (Former Federal Reserve Governor): The impact of the Fed's move was already discounted by the market, so there won't be much effect on stock prices, there won't be much effect on long-term interest rates.

INSANA: People buying homes, little impact. That's because mortgage rates peaked weeks ago in anticipation of today's move. But homeowners with adjustable rate mortgages face slightly higher monthly payments. What about credit card debt? For the average household, only about $1 a month more in interest payments. Car loans? Again, little impact. Most car buyers won't notice much because of intense competition in the auto business.

Mr. PETER EPPS (Car Buyer): If you need a car, to buy a car at a quarter of a point on a car loan it's not making the make or break difference.

INSANA: And the impact on Wall Street? The response to today's rate hikes muted, the market correctly anticipated what the Fed would do, rallying on the rumor yesterday, selling on the news today. And beyond short-term fluctuations, one key Wall Streeter sees this bull market continuing for a long time.

Mr. PETER CANELO (Morgan Stanley Dean Witter): I think the market will go above 25,000 on the Dow Jones sometime over the next five to eight years.

INSANA: Canelo also told us that baby boomers are entering their peak savings years, and that titanic force will very much overwhelm any interest rate hikes from the Federal Reserve. Brian:

WILLIAMS: Ron, what about the folks interested in just the short term? Is this it on interest rates? It's not too early for people to start thinking about the Christmas buying season.

INSANA: Well, Brian, many investors and economists believe the Fed is done raising interest rates for the balance of 1999, and if that turns out to be true, a lot of folks think that the stock market will continue to rally sharply, and that could fuel a big increase in consumer spending come Christmastime. Brian:

WILLIAMS: All right, CNBC's Ron Insana from the New York Stock Exchange tonight. Thanks, as always.
   COfed : Federal Reserve Board   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | m11 : Equity Markets | ntra : Transcript | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBBurrelle?? Information Services   ANDocument NTLN000020120223dv8o00rol  

HDNewscast: Fed raises interest rates a quarter percent      WC642 words   PD24 August 1999   SNNBC News: Nightly News   SCNTLN   LAEnglish   CY(c) Copyright 1999, NBC Universal Inc. All Rights Reserved.    
   LPBRIAN WILLIAMS, anchor:   

It was the hike heard 'round the world. The Federal Reserve today sent interest rates up just a quarter of one percent, a small move for now. It may have a big effect later on. The US economy is just like a fast train. Do you really want to slow it down, even if it's bound to arrive ahead of schedule? Is it better to be safe than sorry? Well, today the Fed said yes. Economists are saying watch the next few months. Wall Street said no big deal, at least not yet. The Dow was down 16 points and change. NASDAQ was up over 32 points.   
   TD(Stock report follows)   

WILLIAMS: CNBC's Ron Insana's been watching the markets all day and what this will mean for American families.   

RON INSANA reporting:   

High anxiety on Wall Street today, as the Federal Reserve raises interest rates, a decision that touches all American families.   

Mr. WAYNE ANGELL (Bear Stearns Chief Economist): Three months ago they said, `Hey, we may have a problem with inflation.' And now they've said, `Hey, we've fixed it.'   

INSANA: The Fed's decision, boosting two key interest rates by a quarter of a point, is the latest attempt to cool down a hot economy and head off inflation. It's the second quarter-point rate increase in six weeks. In its statement, the Fed says today's action, along with the June hike, "should markedly diminish the risk of inflation going forward." It may also make it unlikely that the Fed will raise interest rates again anytime soon. What does the rate hike mean for consumers?   

Mr. LYLE GRAMLEY (Former Federal Reserve Governor): The impact of the Fed's move was already discounted by the market, so there won't be much effect on stock prices, there won't be much effect on long-term interest rates.   

INSANA: People buying homes, little impact. That's because mortgage rates peaked weeks ago in anticipation of today's move. But homeowners with adjustable rate mortgages face slightly higher monthly payments. What about credit card debt? For the average household, only about $1 a month more in interest payments. Car loans? Again, little impact. Most car buyers won't notice much because of intense competition in the auto business.   

Mr. PETER EPPS (Car Buyer): If you need a car, to buy a car at a quarter of a point on a car loan it's not making the make or break difference.   

INSANA: And the impact on Wall Street? The response to today's rate hikes muted, the market correctly anticipated what the Fed would do, rallying on the rumor yesterday, selling on the news today. And beyond short-term fluctuations, one key Wall Streeter sees this bull market continuing for a long time.   

Mr. PETER CANELO (Morgan Stanley Dean Witter): I think the market will go above 25,000 on the Dow Jones sometime over the next five to eight years.   

INSANA: Canelo also told us that baby boomers are entering their peak savings years, and that titanic force will very much overwhelm any interest rate hikes from the Federal Reserve. Brian:   

WILLIAMS: Ron, what about the folks interested in just the short term? Is this it on interest rates? It's not too early for people to start thinking about the Christmas buying season.   

INSANA: Well, Brian, many investors and economists believe the Fed is done raising interest rates for the balance of 1999, and if that turns out to be true, a lot of folks think that the stock market will continue to rally sharply, and that could fuel a big increase in consumer spending come Christmastime. Brian:   

WILLIAMS: All right, CNBC's Ron Insana from the New York Stock Exchange tonight. Thanks, as always.   
   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1202 : Interest Rates | ntra : Transcript | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBBurrelle's Information Services   ANDocument NTLN000020070819dv8o0021m  



 SEInvestment   HDMarket hangs on US Fed move   BYRobert Guy      WC486 words   PD24 August 1999   SNThe Australian Financial Review   SCAFNR   EDLate   PG45   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 1999. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.   
   LPMoney

Australian bonds made modest gains yesterday, but investors remained wary ahead of Tuesday's (US time) meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee, which is expected to result in a rise in US interest rates.
   TDThe yield on the benchmark 10-year September 2009 bond fell one basis point to 6.32 per cent, with the market clearly pricing in a 25 basis point rise in US interest rates to 5.25 per cent, although uncertainty exists over the direction of monetary policy after the move.

"Inflation is virtually non-existent, and the latest trade figures suggest that GDP grew at a rate of less than 2 per cent in the second quarter. Even so, indications are that the Federal Reserve is going to tighten monetary policy," said Mr Bruce Steinberg, chief economist with Merrill Lynch.

"The Fed puts great store in labour market conditions, and that sector happens to be the only one in which the US economy currently faces binding capacity constraints. However, we think that growth will be slow enough in the months ahead to keep the Fed on hold after the August 24 FOMC meeting," he said.

The spread between the US and Australian 10-year bonds continues to trade at the higher end of its recent 25 to 50 basis point range, with the spread remaining unchanged at 45 basis points.

"The Australian market remains well positioned to outperform and we retain our near-term target of a 25 basis point 10-year spread to the US," said Societe Generale economist Mr Glenn Maguire. "The inflation and wages data for the second quarter indicated a lack of inflationary pressures and a particularly benign inflation outlook."

Although interest rates in the US are seen as more than likely to be raised, many see the local market remaining range-bound, with fluctuations driven by US economic data.

"Our medium-term bond view remains that, at current yields, it is hard to be bearish or bullish in a big way. Now that nominal yields have normalised, we expect the market in coming months to exhibit short-term volatility around a broad sideways pattern," said Mr Rory Robertson, an interest rate strategist with Macquarie Bank.

The Australian dollar finished slightly weaker yesterday, weighed down by the possibility of a wider interest rate differential between Australia and the US.

The $A settled at US63.77¢ from US63.88¢ on Friday, and at ¥70.60 from ¥70.70 on Friday.

The US dollar/Japenese yen cross continued to be the feature of foreign exchange markets, with the yen strengthening to a seven-month high against the $US, settling at ¥110.85 from ¥111.25 on Friday. This was despite reports from Japanese newspaper Nihon Kiezai Shimbun that some investors believed that US and Japanese authorities would intervene in the foreign exchange markets to support the US dollar.
   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News   REaustr : Australia | usa : United States | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | namz : North America   PUBFairfax Media Management Pty Limited   ANDocument AFNR000020111227dv8o008a8  



 SEBusiness; Money Market   HDUS Rates To Pressure $A   BYBy Morgan Mellish      WC633 words   PD23 August 1999   SNSydney Morning Herald   SCSMHH   PG33   LAEnglish   CY© 1999 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.   www.smh.com.au
   LPThe expected rise in US interest rates this week will dominate market trading and put pressure on the faltering Australian dollar by widening the gap between local and US rates.

The US Federal Reserve's Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) is tipped to lift official rates from 5 to 5.25 per cent when it meets overnight tomorrow.
   TDEconomists believe the rate rise could put further pressure on the Australian dollar as the local currency becomes less attractive to international investors.

The Reserve Bank last week indicated Australian rates were on hold while inflation remained under control. It last moved in December, cutting the official rate from 5 to 4.75 per cent.

The expected US rate rise follows the re-emergence of inflationary pressures there as key Asian economies bounce back from last year's turmoil.

Industrial production in Japan is recovering quickly and some economists predict the Fed may have to raise rates again when it meets in October.

Mercantile Mutual's head of equities, Mr Peter Mouatt, said: ``The next move in interest rates in Australia will be up but I don't think it will be until around the time of the introduction of the tax package next year.''

A rise of 25 basis points in the US is largely priced in to bond and currency markets, which both weakened last week.

``I think there's a chance of a 50-point hike but the most likely outcome will be 25 points,'' Mr Mouatt said. ``If it's 25 points, there won't be much impact because that's been factored in. If it's 50, there will probably be a rally on the bond market.

``If they did nothing, that would be the worst outcome because markets are clearly worried about wage pressure and inflation pressure in the US.''

Economists also will be searching for any hints from the Fed about future interest rate moves.

AMP Asset Management chief economist, Dr Shane Oliver, said: ``Markets will really be looking for any accompanying statements following the tightening.

``If the Fed moves to a tightening bias as well as raising rates then that will be negative, but the more likely scenario is they raise rates and adopt a neutral bias.

``If their comments show the interest rate cycle this time around is likely to be relatively mild then the markets will run, but our view is that there will be further rises to come.''

The prospect of higher US rates and a stronger yen pushed the Australian dollar lower last week, at one point hitting a four-month low of US63.35c. It ended the week at US63.85.

Benchmark 10-year September 1999 bond yields rose 1 basis point on Friday to 6.34 per cent.

The Dow Jones rose 136.8 (1.3 per cent) to 11,100.6 over the weekend, leaving it just 151.7 below July's record of 11,252.3.

The All Ordinaries index fell 1.7 points on Friday to 3025.4.

Apart from interest rates, the sharemarket will focus on a raft of company profits due this week, including Foster's Brewing Group, Telstra and AMP.

Mr Mouatt said: ``The profit reporting season so far has gone reasonably well and that should continue to be supportive.

``Most of the results have been in line with expectations and [those] that have beaten expectations such as Rio Tinto, Comalco and Colonial have done it through cost cutting.''

On Thursday AMP is expected to announce its first loss as a listed company. Analysts expect the GIO debacle will push it about $220 million into the red for the six months to July.

Wall St could drop 25pc Page 34 
   COfed : Federal Reserve Board   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | gpersf : Personal Finance | e12 : Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News   REusa : United States | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | namz : North America   PUBFairfax Media Management Pty Limited   ANDocument smhh000020010829dv8n00l8h  

HD Chicago Tribune Business Outlook Column    BY William Sluis    WC505 words   PD23 August 1999   SNKRTBN Knight-Ridder Tribune Business News: Chicago Tribune - Illinois   SCKRTBN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright (C) 1999 KRTBN Knight Ridder Tribune Business News; Source: World Reporter (TM)
   LP INTEREST RATES: WELL, FED? 

 It's show-and-tell time at the Federal Reserve, as members of the Federal Open Market Committee gather Tuesday to decide on interest rates. Most economists say it is a no-brainer that the Fed will raise the federal funds rate by at least a quarter percentage point, to 5.25 percent, even though the dangers of inflation remain somewhere off in the mist. 
   TD Chicago banker Kenneth Skopec, however, is in the small group that believes policymakers will do nothing. "Higher rates would have a bad effect on the global economy, which remains fragile," said Skopec, of Mid City Financial Corp. In addition to fretting about tepid economic revivals in Russia and Japan, "Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan needs to start worrying about the Year 2000 computer problem," he said. "Look what happened during the power blackout that hit Chicago's center recently. You could say it was like deja vu ahead of time. It created concerns about what could happen at the end of this year." 

 According to Skopec, "Greenspan has taken on the unofficial role as the world's banker. Looking at the weight of the evidence, it is likely the Fed will do nothing for now." 

 HOUSING: THE LOAN DIVIDE 

 Watch Wednesday's report on July existing-home sales for signs that the housing market is wilting under an onslaught from higher mortgage rates. There is a huge and unexpected gap between prevailing rates for home loans versus the rate on Treasury debt. Average conventional 30-year mortgage rates recently have pushed near or above 8 percent, as the interest rate premium between mortgages and long-term Treasuries hit the highest level in eight months. Analysts said the trend stems from a leery investor attitude toward debt of all kinds; it may relate to a rising tide of junk-bond defaults and individual bankruptcies. 

 MANUFACTURING: HOT CARS, AT LEAST 

 The nation's manufacturing sector remains unable to rev up export sales, so don't look for dramatic gains in Wednesday's report on July orders for durable goods. Although the barometer has been up for six of the last eight monthly reports, orders in June rose only 0.3 percent. Auto factories are operating at a feverish pace, thanks to sizzling sales of sport-utility behemoths, but other manufacturers are seeing only lukewarm order books. 

 STOCK MARKET: GOING NOWHERE FAST 

 It seems like an endless summer for the stock market, with major averages at, or not much above, levels they first hit in April. Flossmoor investment manager Richard Evans, who measures the comparative performance of different stock groups, is telling clients that the recent performance of the Dow Jones transportation index is less than encouraging. The index finished last week at 3150.73, nearly 17 percent off its high. "The transports turned bearish as they dropped below 3300," Evans writes in his latest Renaissance Report market letter. "With the transports dropping, the odds of the market moving significantly higher are nil." 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REasiaz : Asia | gulfstz : Persian Gulf Regions | meastz : Middle East | namz : North America | qatar : Qatar | usa : United States | wasiaz : Western Asia   IPDEconomic News | Interest Rates | Economic Indicators | United States of America, Americas~US | Americas | North America | Pacific Rim | Federal_Reserve_USA   ANDocument krtbn00020010828dv8n01j62  

HD Federal Reserve  Rate Hike Could Affect California's Heated Tech Economy    BY K. Oanh Ha and Ilan Greenberg    WC1,187 words   PD23 August 1999   SNKRTBN Knight-Ridder Tribune Business News: San Jose Mercury News - California   SCKRTBN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright (C) 1999 KRTBN Knight Ridder Tribune Business News; Source: World Reporter (TM)
   LP If all goes as expected, Silicon Valley will hardly blink when the Federal Reserve meets Tuesday to decide whether to raise interest rates by the widely expected one-quarter percentage point. 

 Even though it would be the second interest rate increase in two months, the region's technology economy is expected to continue humming as long as world demand for Silicon's Valley's technology doesn't slacken. 
   TD Right now, many of the major industries in Santa Clara County, from semiconductors and software to networking and the dotcoms, are driven more by their own economic forces -- such as falling PC prices, rising demand in Asia and technological changes -- than by changes in the national economy. 

 "If interest rates somehow affected consumption and people really stopped spending, then there might be an impact on the demand for technology," said Doug Henton, president of Collaborative Economics, a research firm in Palo Alto. "Sure, if there was a worldwide slowdown, that would hurt Silicon Valley." 

 But no slowdown is in sight, and Silicon Valley is selling the technology the world wants to buy. 

 "Silicon Valley's in a good position right now," said Robert Prybolsky, a senior economist at WEFA, an economics research firm in Eddystone, Pa. "I don't see much of an impact at all. (The rate increase) is a token move by the Feds to send a message that they're keeping inflation in check and to show they're vigilant." 

 In normal economic times, this would not be the case. An interest rate increase makes money more expensive and drives up the cost of borrowing. 

 As a result, banks normally increase their interest rates for commercial and consumer loans, credit cards, auto loans and housing loans. As loans get more expensive, consumers cut back on spending, and businesses put off plans for buying more equipment and building new factories, slowing the economy. 

 But these are hardly normal economic times. The nine-year expansion is set to become the longest in history next April, and Silicon Valley has close to a record low unemployment rate of 3.3 percent despite the fact that only 1,900 new jobs were created in Santa Clara County in the last 12 months. 

 If the Fed does raise interest rates on Tuesday, it would be reversing the rate cuts in late 1998 that shielded the economy from a global economic crisis. 

 Now with the economic recovery overseas, many think that the Fed is now trying to create a so-called "soft landing" to this decade's economic boom. 

 "The chances of a soft landing are quite good," said Ezra Greenberg, senior economist at Standard & Poor's DRI in Lexington, Mass. "And it will be the first time we've engineered two soft landings in a row, the first being 1995." 

 On Tuesday, the Fed is expected to increase two key interest rates by 0.25 percentage point. The federal funds rate -- the interest rate that banks pay to borrow from each other -- is expected to rise from 5 percent to 5.25 percent, and the discount rate -- the interest rate that banks pay to borrow directly from the Fed -- would increase from 4.75 percent to 5 percent. 

 You might expect Silicon Valley's housing industry to be the first to slow down from an increase in interest rates. For the same-size loan, the monthly mortgage payment would go up, making housing even less affordable than it is now. 

 "Normally we see a rush in buying a week before a hike, but we're not seeing it," said Mike James, manager of the San Jose main office of Coldwell Banker Residential Real Estate. "It appears the market is so strong that I don't know what it would take to slow it down. Maybe a half of a percent, but a quarter won't do it." 

 Right now, the improvement in the Asian economies is more important to Silicon Valley tech companies than changes in the interest rates. The Semiconductor Industry Association expects that the Asia-Pacific region will be the hottest market for semiconductors this year. Chip sales there grew nearly 23 percent in June compared to a year ago. 

 Intel Corp.'s latest earnings indicate SIA's forecasts aren't off base. The Santa Clara-based chip giant reported revenues of $6.7 billion in its latest quarter, which ended in June, up from $5.9 billion a year ago. In the quarter, revenues from Asia Pacific were 22 percent of total revenues, up from 20 percent last year. 

 Much of the demand for chips is fueled by the Internet and electronic commerce. While personal computers drove the semiconductor industry through the 1980s and mid-1990s, now telecommunications devices, such as cellular phones and information appliances, are becoming a fast-growing segment of the market. The telecommunications market worldwide is expected to grow at an annual compound growth rate of 10.2 percent between 1999 and 2002, according to Dataquest Inc. 

 And though computer prices continue to tumble, unit sales are increasing in some parts of the world. Unit sales of computers in the second quarter of this year in Asia reached the 3 million mark for the first time. That's a 34 percent growth from the same period a year ago and 18 percent from the previous quarter. Sales in Latin America and Mexico also grew significantly. 

 Paradoxically, the overseas recoveries might create new risks for the U.S. economy that could in turn affect Silicon Valley. 

 The trade deficit is now hitting record levels, meaning Americans are sending more and more dollars overseas to pay for all of the cars, appliances and other imports that they are accumulating. The chief risk for the economy is that the value of the dollar could fall sharply. 

 That might lead global investors to flee U.S. stock and bond markets. Consequently, U.S. interest rates will have to rise to keep investments here competitive. 

 "Investors swamped with the dollar are moving on to greener pastures," cautions Sung Won Sohn, chief economist at Wells Fargo bank. "The United States has to attract foreign capital by raising interest rates." 

 The recovery overseas also poses the danger of inflation, as a revived global economy gobbles up more resources, enables companies to hike prices and, ultimately, creates shortages if economic growth is strong and sustained. 

 For now, most forecasters believe the pressures will not flare out of control. But the dawning view that Europe, Asia and South America are resuming paths of growth reflects a sweeping change in the global outlook, and the apparent fading of forces that worked dramatically to the U.S. advantage in 1998 and early 1999. 

 "Every passing day suggests the United States is still going strong, and the rest of the world is picking up," said Nariman Behravesh, chief international economist at Standard & Poor's DRI in Lexington, Mass. "This is what we're worrying about." 

 The New York Times and Los Angeles Times contributed to this report. 
   INi3302 : Computers/Electronics | i330202 : Software   NSc31 : Marketing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REasiaz : Asia | gulfstz : Persian Gulf Regions | meastz : Middle East | namz : North America | qatar : Qatar | usa : United States | wasiaz : Western Asia   IPC7372   IPDSales | Marketing | Company News | Economic News | Interest Rates | Economic Indicators | United States of America, Americas~US | Americas | North America | Pacific Rim | California | Federal_Reserve_USA | Prepackaged Software   ANDocument krtbn00020010828dv8n01j25  



 CLMREVIEW & OUTLOOK (Editorial)   HD The Fed's Annual Itch    WC847 words   PD23 August 1999   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGA14   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)
   LPFederal Reserve gurus convene tomorrow to decide monetary policy, just before packing their bags for their annual retreat in the Tetons. The scene seems weirdly familiar. As summer draws to a close, the economy is growing smartly, thank you. Inflation has made itself so scarce most analysts can barely find it. But what's emanating from the Fed is an itch to tighten, sending the bond markets into a shimmy. Wall Street is holding its collective breath for fear the Fed's Open Market Committee might raise interest rates because everything is going too well. 
   TD Haven't we been here before? Yes, just a year ago. In his July 1998 testimony to Congress, Chairman Greenspan warned: "Should pressures on labor resources begin to show through more impressively in cost increases, policy action may need to counter any associated tendency for prices to accelerate, before it undermines this extraordinary expansion." This July's testimony brought similar talk, with Mr. Greenspan's warning that the Fed would have to act "promptly and forcefully" if the lively job market led to any signs of rising prices. 

 Last time around, with the Jackson Hole meeting in progress, we wrote "Time to Relax, Alan," pointing to falling sensitive prices and even an inverted yield curve -- the classic interest-rate sign of recession, with short rates climbing above long rates. Returning from Wyoming, the Fed could see the Asian crisis about to penetrate the U.S. markets. That fall Mr. Greenspan went on not to tighten but to ease interest rates thrice -- in our estimation averting a nasty world recession. 

 The most overt reason for the current tightening talk, of course, was the Fed's small tightening in June. It went ahead to boost its target rate on Federal Funds by one-quarter, despite the surprise of a totally flat consumer price report. It did add some verbiage suggesting it didn't really mean it: "Owing to the uncertain resolution of the balance of conflicting forces in the economy going forward, the FOMC has chosen to adopt a directive that includes no predilection about near-term policy action." Not surprisingly, markets are confused. 

 As the gurus weigh whether to tighten further, we only hope they look over their shoulders at their own experience. In particular, last fall they also itched to tighten, but suddenly found themselves instead easing aggressively. Where is all the resulting inflation? 

 If the Fed's main job is to keep the price level steady, the result has been one of the most stunningly successful years in generations. Inflation year-on-year, since that fretful July of 1998, has been an official 2.1%. Given the upward bias of Consumer Price Index measurements, the real number may be practically zero. 

 The good news about low inflation stretches right up to last week's CPI numbers for July. Were price level a piece of furniture at the Fed, it would still look steady enough for board members to safely rest their coffee cups upon it at tomorrow's meeting. Insofar as gold remains an indicator, it signals -- if anything -- deflation. Commodities generally, after a dip this past year, are about where they were this time last year. Another interesting indicator, the spread between inflation-indexed Treasury bonds and non-indexed T-bonds, has been holding steady -- again, suggesting no inflation. Bank lending -- which enlarges the money supply and is therefore the kind of thing that unlike jobs, or growth, really can lead to inflation -- has been steady since last October. There just aren't a lot of credible warning flags out there. 

 Vigilance against inflation is a useful thing. But it works best when grounded in good sense about how the world works; instead, the air is now filled with theories that have no business on the road in today's fast-moving global markets. Will Mr. Greenspan's team ever get over the much-discredited Phillips Curve notion that the way to prevent inflation is to take away jobs and trash growth? Over at Larry Summers's Treasury, the latest brainstorm is that paying off government debt is an elixir for low interest rates, though of course rates plummeted as debt accumulated in the 1980s. At the end of a hot, sticky summer in our nation's capital, patience and cool reasoning can be hard to come by. 

 Happily, the air is clearer in the Tetons. We hope Mr. Greenspan and friends delay anything dramatic until they have had a chance to take a few deep breaths. So our advice is to enjoy the mountains. Maybe by the time next month's inflation numbers start rolling in, there will be something to worry about. Or it may just turn out that this year's fret over inflation on the horizon has been about as pointless as last year's -- that things are fine. In which case the Fed will be in a good spot to congratulate itself that instead of choking growth, it has begun to learn from its own success. 
   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nedc : Commentary/Opinion   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument j000000020010828dv8n00njn  



 HD Treasurys End Mixed Ahead Of Fed Meeting; Long-Bond Yield At 5.98%    WC854 words   PD23 August 1999   ET15:02   SNDow Jones Business News   SCDJON   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- Treasurys prices ended mixed Monday as the market marked time ahead of the Federal Reserve's widely expected quarter-point tightening in interest rates Tuesday. The long bond held steady, while short-term Treasurys lost ground amid expectations of the impending rate boost. 

 However, the stock market rallied Monday on growing hopes that the Fed will signal it doesn't plan to raise rates again after Tuesday's meeting. 
   TD "The attention will focus on what the Fed might say in terms of a comment and whether or not they maintain a bias," said Charles Reinhard, market strategist at ABN AMRO in New York. The Fed dropped its bias toward higher rates after the June 30 rate increase, but many believe Chairman Alan Greenspan signaled a renewed bias to tighten policy in congressional testimony last month. 

 Late in Monday's session, the yield on the 30-year Treasury bond was at 5.981%, unchanged from late Friday. The bond's price - which moves inversely to the yield - was flat at 101 30/32 after rising 20/32 on Friday. 

 The 30-year bond yield dropped below 6% last week for the first time since late July. 

 The long-end of the Treasurys market held steady despite a nearly 200-point jump in blue-chip stocks on Wall Street. The Dow Jones Industrial Average climbed 199.15 points, or 1.8%, to close at 11299.76 - easily surpassing its pervious record-high close of 11209.84 set July 16. 

 Traders said the Treasury Department's decision to eliminate the November bond auction, as well as the belief that the Fed is acting to head off inflation, have helped to support the 30-year bond. 

 Among shorter-term Treasury issues late Monday, the 10-year note was down 4/32 at 100 26/32 to yield 5.88%. The two-year note was down 2/32 at 99 23/32 to yield 5.65%. Three-month bills were up eight basis points at 4.77 to yield 4.90% as the short end of the market clearly reflected the expected Fed tightening. 

 Economists at 29 of 30 primary dealers of U.S. government securities polled by Dow Jones Newswires and CNBC forecast a quarter-percentage-point increase in the federal-funds target rate to 5.25% by the Federal Open Market Committee. The market has largely discounted the anticipated strike against the risk of inflation by the Fed. 

 "If you get a tightening, the only thing that will matter is the language in the bias," said Anthony Crescenzi, chief bond market strategist at Miller, Tabak & Co. in New York. Because of the importance given to it by investors and traders, a Fed statement could set the tone for the Treasurys market in the weeks to come, he said. 

 "As long as the Fed doesn't sound belligerent, the market can continue this slow grinding to higher prices," added John Youngdahl, senior money market economist at Goldman, Sachs & Co. in New York. The FOMC adopted a neutral stance on monetary policy at its June 30 gathering when it raised the fed-funds target rate to 5.00% from 4.75%. 

 A post-FOMC rally would probably be short-lived, but it could be enough to push five-year yields down to 5.75% and 10-year yields to 5.83%, said David Ging, market strategist at Donaldson Lufkin & Jenrette Securities in New York. 

 Thomas Ruff, vice president and proprietary trader at Daiwa Securities America Inc. in New York said he believes the Fed will not only tighten the fed-funds overnight lending target for interbank loans by a quarter point, but will also raise the discount rate, or the interest rate it charges member banks for loans. Raising both rates, he said, would convey to the market an unambiguous signal about monetary policy. 

 Many say that Tuesday's FOMC meeting could bring the last Fed tightening this year. "The case isn't completely compelling in terms of economic data, but if they don't go now (with a rate increase), it gets more politically difficult to go later in the run-up to Y2K," said one London-based trader. 

 U.S. economic indicators due this week likely will be overshadowed by the Fed's news on interest rates. "If the Fed hints there's going to be more tightening, any new report could scare the market no matter what," said James Glassman, senior economist at Chase Securities in New York. 

 Figures on July durable-goods orders and existing-home sales are due out Wednesday. The Commerce Department will release its revised look at second-quarter gross domestic product on Thursday and its report on personal income and spending data for July. 

 "I think the bond has found a comfort level until the market gets the next catalyst, which could be the August employment report (in early September)," added Philip Laverson, economist at Prudential Securities in New York. 

 Copyright (c) 1999 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument djon000020020329dv8n03jcs  



 SEInvestment   HDAll interest on Greenspan's rates   BYTony Boyd Global Markets Editor      WC556 words   PD23 August 1999   SNThe Australian Financial Review   SCAFNR   EDLate   PG36   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 1999. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.   
   LPAlan Greenspan, Chairman of the US Federal Reserve Board, returns to centre stage this week to chair a Federal Open Market Committee meeting that is expected to raise official interest rates in the United States by a quarter of 1 per cent to 5.25 per

cent.
   TDThat rate hike could have negative implications for the Australian dollar which is suffering from a shift in the yield differentials available in dollar bloc economies.

A Fed rate rise of 25 basis points will bring US rates back to within a quarter of 1 per cent of the level which prevailed last year before three emergency rate cuts to head off a global liquidity crunch.

A rate rise has been priced into global fixed interest markets so analysts will focus upon the Fed's outlook for rates and whether another pre-emptive strike against inflation is likely.

An increase in US interest rates on Tuesday night by the amount expected will create a 0.75 per cent gap betwen US and Australian official rates, a prospect that has aroused the concern of market analysts.

"This would give currency speculators a 0.75 per cent pick up on short $A positions with little chance of an interest rate reaction from authorities," Westpac's general manager economics Mr Bill Evans said.

"However, there will be limits to the $A's fall, given that history has shown the $A will not fall much more than five or six cents below fair value, even in extreme periods like the Asian hedge fund crisis of 1998 and the 1990s balance of payments crisis."

Mr Evans said the Reserve Bank of Australia is likely to eventually intervene in the currency markets to support the dollar.

Apart from the US, official interest rates are on an upward path in two key dollar bloc countries, New Zealand and Canada.

Mr John Edwards, chief economist at HSBC Markets said the Australian currency and fixed interest markets were facing a tough period because of the combination of the Fed rate hike, as well as this week's capital expenditure figures and next week's second quarter current account deficit number.

He said the sharp drop in the $A suggested to markets that the RBA may have to tighten earlier than it had planned, or that Australia may have to start paying higher rates to attract the $34 billion needed to fund the current account deficit each year.

Australia's current account deficit is expected to hit 6.25 per cent of GDP for the second quarter of 1999, a figure due out on August 30.

There is little need for a tightening of monetary policy because financial markets have done some of the job for the RBA, according to Mr Craig James, chief economist at Colonial State Bank.

"Over the past five months, five year fixed rate loans have risen by up to one percentage point," he said.

"Further, since June, 90-day bank bill rates have averaged 4.9 per cent, 15 basis points above the official cash rate."

Yields on 10 year bonds have risen 130 basis points this year to 6.3 per cent and swap rates have risen even more to 6.6 per cent, according to economists at National Market Economics.
   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News   REaustr : Australia | usa : United States | namz : North America | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania   PUBFairfax Media Management Pty Limited   ANDocument AFNR000020111227dv8n008cp  
 Page 1 of 1     © 2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.


 

 Page 1     © 2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.

