 


 HD UPDATE 1-Canada tracks U.S. with aggressive rate hike.    BY By Don Curren    WC609 words   PD17 May 2000   ET16:29   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2000 Reuters Limited
   LP TORONTO, May 17 (Reuters) - The Bank of Canada raised interest rates by half a percentage point on Wednesday, keeping pace with the U.S. Federal Reserve's aggressive hike on Tuesday despite Canada's subdued inflation outlook. 

 The Canadian central bank raised its benchmark bank rate to 6.0 percent at its regular 9:00 a.m. (1300 GMT) policy window on Wednesday, the fourth time since November it has matched an interest-rate tightening in the U.S. at the earliest possible opportunity. 
   TD Immediately after the bank's interest rate move, Canada's major banks began increasing their prime lending rates, raising them to 7.50 percent from 7.00 percent, effective Thursday. 

 The Canadian dollar weakened moderately after the news, moving from C$1.4915 to C$1.4940 before retracing most of its losses. Domestic bond markets remained fairly steady after the widely expected move. 

 Cheryl King, an economist with T.D. Bank Financial Group, told Reuters Television that the weakness in the currency could reflect worries about the Bank of Canada's ability to match further rate increases from the Fed. 

 "I think part of the concern is what is going to happen with policy on Canada going forward," King said. "There is some concern that the Bank of Canada is not going to tighten policy as aggressively as the U.S., so therefore we will probably see some widening of the interest-rate differentials, if that does occur." 

 In a statement announcing its move, the Canadian central bank said the momentum of demand in the Canadian economy and risks of inflationary pressures had justified the rate increase. 

 "This move by the Bank of Canada reflects the judgment that a tightening in monetary conditions in Canada is warranted, given that the underlying momentum of demand growth and the high levels of activity risk putting excessive pressure on the economy's capacity limits, and thus on inflation," the statement said. 

 Core inflation, the focus of the Bank of Canada's 1.0 to 3.0 percent target range, has behaved well in Canada, staying below U.S. inflation and well within the lower half of target range. 

 In March, core inflation was 1.5 percent on a year-over-year basis, while the U.S. core rate was at 2.2 percent. In its May monetary policy report, issued last week, the bank said it expected core inflation to rise gradually to close to 2 percent this year. 

 The bank's release also linked the increase to the Fed's hike on Tuesday, and the threat of inflation spilling over from the U.S. 

 "Yesterday's action by the U.S. Federal Reserve to raise its target level for the federal funds rate by 50 basis points underscores the strength of that economy and the continued risk of demand and inflation pressures spilling over from the United States into Canada," the release said. 

 Canada's bank rate is now at its highest level since the summer of 1998, when the bank raised rates sharply to help contain the sharp decline of the Canadian dollar. The last time the Bank of Canada raised the bank rate by more than 25 basis points was on August 27, 1998, when it increased the rate by 100 basis points to stabilise the freefalling currency. 

 The Canadian central bank stayed out of the first two rate increases in the Fed's current tightening programme, but has matched each of the last four increases. 

 (( Reuters Toronto Newsroom, 416 941-8100, toronto.newsroom@reuters.com)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REcana : Canada | namz : North America | usa : United States   ANDocument lba0000020010821dw5h00ct6  



 HD Analysts' views - European reaction to Fed rate hike.    WC699 words   PD17 May 2000   ET08:48   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2000 Reuters Limited
   LP LONDON, May 17 (Reuters) - The U.S. Federal reserve raised its key market interest rate on Tuesday by half a percentage point to 6.5 percent in a widely expected move. 

 The following are comments from European analysts on how the Fed move is likely to impact European financial markets on Wednesday: 
   TD HERVE GOULLETQUER, CHIEF ECONOMIST, CREDIT LYONNAIS, PARIS 

 "The hike was definitely not a surprise so I think in continental Europe and the UK the market has to be quiet this morning. The only question now is what would be the rhythm of the Federal Reserve for the next FOMC meeting and we have the feeling it will be difficult for the Fed to slow down this rhythm. But all is already in the cards. When you take a glance at the forward rates you observe that the market believes the Fed will continue to raise its rates so I do not expect large moves this morning. Concerning European long-term rates, it is not only linked to its U.S. counterparts but to what is expected concerning ECB policy." 

 GRAHAM MCDEVITT, GLOBAL HEAD OF FIXED INCOME STRATEGY, ABN AMRO 

 "It's a U.S. story. The U.S. yield curve flattened on the news...On a one to two or three week basis the bond market will like that the Fed is trying to take control of the agenda but the medium term view is that inflation is now the risk for the Fed and that means there is going to be more rate hikes coming which means bond yields are also going to be under pressure on the upside. That will drag on to Europe and Europe will also be looking at the fact that the currency did not like the move and the currency market is going to be vulnerable to further rate hikes from the Fed. On a day trade, I think it is not a big drama but the reality is going to realise the Fed is in serious rate hike mode now." 

 GRACE CHEN, TREASURY ECONOMIST, ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND 

 "As we expected the FOMC opted for a more aggressive hike and also left the balance of risks as tilted towards heightened inflation pressures. The continuation of this hawkish view will likely weigh on eurodollar and the short end of the curve but lend continued support to the dollar as well as the long end of the yield curve due to confidence the Fed will maintain course for non-inflationary growth." 

 LUCA JELLINEK, SENIOR BOND STRATEGIST, BNP PARIBAS 

 "Good reaction in the U.S. because the move was predictable. Stocks and T-bonds did quite well and even the short end held in well except for the very very short end. Overall a positive reaction. We've had good data recently ahead of this and it makes the Fed look as if they're ahead of the ball game. Bunds have opned a tad lower but I think that they're going to be pushed higher once the customers start trickling in." 

 ANALYSTS AT HYPOVEREINSBANK IN A NOTE 

 "Examining the statement one sees even tougher language than 

 after the last two rate hikes...To us this simply sounds like 

 the next rate hike (most likely 25 bp) is just around the corner at the next meeting at the end of June." 

 ROB HAYWARD, SENIOR ECONOMIST AT BANK OF AMERICA 

 "No surprises really...the fact that we've had the decent PPI, CPI and softer retail sales over the last week or so have allowed the market to take a pretty positive response to the move. Now we'll be looking closely to the economic data to see whether inflation remains under contral and if there's any moderation in the economy. If we do we see moderation, I guess people will start to think that we're close to the peak in rates. Our feeling is that they're not going to do anything at the next meeting and they'll do 25 (bps) in August and that will probably be it." 

 ((London capital markets +44 0207 542 2734)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REeurz : Europe | namz : North America | uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | weurz : Western Europe   ANDocument lba0000020010821dw5h00bwt  



 HD REPEAT-UPDATE 3-Fed raises U.S. rates, signals more to come.    BY By Knut Engelmann    WC859 words   PD17 May 2000   ET06:30   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2000 Reuters Limited
   LP WASHINGTON, May 16 (Reuters) - The Federal Reserve jacked up U.S. interest rates aggressively on Tuesday, stepping up its year-long fight against inflation in the booming economy and vowing to keep at it until growth finally takes a breather. 

 Boosting sentiment among inflation-wary investors, the Fed raised the key federal funds overnight bank lending rate by half a percentage point to 6.5 percent, the largest rise in more than five years, bringing short-term borrowing costs to a level not seen since the last U.S. recession a decade ago. 
   TD To amplify its move, the Fed also raised the more symbolic discount rate it charges on emergency loans to banks by the same amount to 6.0 percent. 

 "Increases in demand have remained in excess of even the rapid pace of productivity-driven gains in potential supply, exerting continued pressure on resources," the Fed said in a statement released after a closed-door meeting of its rate-setting Federal Open Market Committee. 

 "The Committee is concerned that this disparity in the growth of demand and potential supply will continue, which could foster inflationary imbalances that would undermine the economy's outstanding performance," it added. 

 Key U.S. commercial banks swiftly followed suit and, within minutes of the Fed news, announced increases in their own key borrowing rate, the so-called prime rate that determines the cost of lending to the vast majority of their customers. That should translate into higher rates on everything from mortgages to car loans and help to slow red-hot U.S. consumer demand. 

 Using standard language to warn of further rate increases in the not-too-distant future, the Fed said the key risk to the economy still came from higher inflation. 

 "If we see continuing strength in demand, the Fed will follow through with another rate hike in June," said David Resler, chief economist at Nomura Securities International Inc. in New York. The Fed's next rate meeting is on June 27-28. 

 AND THEN THERE WERE SIX 

 The Fed's move followed five successive quarter-point increases in the bellwether fed funds rate since June 1999, which had done little in slowing the blockbuster U.S. economy to a more manageable and potentially less inflationary rate. 

 Fed watchers immediately began wondering whether the next U.S. rate rise would be as aggressive as Tuesday's, or whether the Fed would return to its tried-and-tested policy of bumping up borrowing costs bit by bit in increments of a quarter point - or 25 basis points in the parlance of financial markets. 

 Wayne Ayers, chief economist at FleetBoston Financial and a former Fed economist, said tentative signs of a slowdown in interest-rate sensitive sectors of the economy were just now beginning to emerge, giving the Fed some wiggle room. "I think 25 (basis points) is a safe bet at this point," he said. 

 But Anthony Chan, managing director and chief economist at Banc One Investment Advisors, said the statement's language hinted at growing inflation worries inside the Fed. "Another 50 basis point adjustment is just around the corner," he said. 

 Bond prices mostly firmed on the rate news. Stocks fell from earlier highs but quickly rebounded even as investors pondered the prospect of rising rates that could hurt robust consumer spending and increase companies' investment costs. 

 The rate decision came after the government earlier on Tuesday said the key Consumer Price Index held steady in April as energy and transportation costs fell, signalling inflation remains tame even in the tenth year of an unbroken expansion. 

 FLAT INFLATION 

 The unchanged U.S. Consumer Price Index in April compared to a 0.7 percent jump in March. The core CPI - which strips out volatile food and energy components and is closely tracked by the Fed - rose 0.2 percent after March's 0.4 percent gain. 

 But Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan has long worried that red-hot economic growth at rates above 5 percent, combined with falling jobless rates, will put so much pressure on the economy that inflation will tick up unless key rates continue to rise. 

 The U.S. administration declined to comment directly on the rate move, saying it respected the Fed's independence. 

 "The Fed will do its job and we will do ours, and I'm going to let them make whatever decision that Chairman Greenspan and the others think is warranted," President Bill Clinton said. 

 The leading contenders to succeed Clinton, Vice President Al Gore and Texas Republican Governor George W. Bush, declined to comment directly on the rate news. 

 Others were less circumspect in their reaction. 

 NAM President Jerry Jasinowski called the Fed's decision "excessive and unwarranted," while AFL-CIO President John Sweeney said it was a "serious mistake." 

 And Sen. Tom Harkin, an Iowa Democrat and long-time Fed critic, said the move risked throwing the economy back into recession. "With a little nick here and a little nick there - pretty soon our economy is going to bleed to death," he said. 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States | usdc : Washington DC | uss : Southern U.S.   ANDocument lba0000020010821dw5h00at3  



 HD ANALYSIS-Central banks play rates Russian roulette.    BY By Jim Parker    WC797 words   PD17 May 2000   ET06:07   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2000 Reuters Limited
   LP SYDNEY, May 17 (Reuters) - It's the financial market equivalent of Russian roulette. 

 As the Federal Reserve desperately tries to rein in a runaway U.S. economy, central banks everywhere else are pointing the loaded gun of monetary policy at their own economies. 
   TD And their strategy appears to be backfiring. 

 The notoriously hawkish Reserve Bank of New Zealand (RBNZ) on Wednesday highlighted the risks of this approach by matching the U.S. central bank's 50-basis-point increase in interest rates, only to see its currency test record lows. 

 "This just proves that it's not interest rate differentials driving currencies, it's growth differentials," said National Bank of New Zealand chief economist Brendan O'Donovan. 

 "A 50-basis-point hike when your domestic economy is not doing famously is detrimental to medium-term growth - ipso facto, smack the currency," O'Donovan said. 

 The RBNZ and other policymakers outside the U.S. insist they have to raise interest rates to stem the inflationary impact from their rapidly weakening currencies. 

 But by trying to keep pace with the Fed, analysts say they risk tipping their own economies into recession and accentuating the currency depreciation they are trying to avoid. 

 The Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) - lauded for refusing to bow to international pressure for higher interest rates during the Asian crisis two years ago - is now seen at risk of falling into the same trap as the RBNZ. 

 NO PANACEA FOR EURO 

 Equally, the European Central Bank (ECB) has discovered that raising borrowing costs is no panacea for the euro at a time when the U.S. economy is sucking in capital from around the world. 

 "The RBA - like the ECB and the RBNZ, among other central banks - is walking a fine line between vigilance and overkill," said Rory Robertson, a New York-based strategist with Australia's Macquarie Bank. 

 "There is no rule that says the RBA need follow the Fed point for point from here," Robertson said. 

 Wednesday's tightening by the U.S. central bank opened up a gap between U.S. and Australian benchmark interest rates of half a percentage point. 

 The RBA already has raised its official cash rate by 125 basis points this cycle to 6.0 percent and has warned of further tightenings if there is no recovery in the Australian dollar, which is near 20-month lows. 

 But its intellectual justification for additional rate increases is seen as tenuous, given continuing signs that the domestic economy is rapidly coming off the boil. 

 "It is clear that the case for further RBA tightening now is weaker than it was at the start of 2000," Robertson said. 

 Likewise, in New Zealand, there have been signs of weakening domestic demand in an economy which only last year emerged from a brief recession. 

 RBNZ CITES WEAK KIWI 

 The RBNZ cited the weak New Zealand dollar as a key influence on its decision to lift its own official cash rate to 6.5 percent, in line with Fed and the fifth increase in six months. 

 If its intention was to put a floor under the currency, it failed miserably. The Kiwi dollar fell a full cent to trade below US$0.4700 for the first time in 14 years. 

 In Australia, the strategy of chasing the Fed is creating political strains for the government and speculation about a split between the policymakers in the RBA and the Treasury. On Tuesday, the Treasury Secretary Ted Evans, who sits on the RBA board, gave a strong hint that the RBA should sit pat for now and wait for the U.S. economy to slow. 

 "The story of what is happening in currency markets is the story of the U.S. dollar, not the Australian dollar," Evans said in response to a question from Reuters Television. 

 "If the U.S. economy slows, what will happen to the U.S. dollar?" 

 But the key word there is "if" and there are no signs yet of any significant slowdown in a U.S. economy seemingly impervious to rising interest rates. 

 Some are now saying the only answer to a stubbornly strong U.S. dollar is an agreement among leading industrialised nations, similar to the Plaza accord of 1985. 

 The first opportunity to do so would the next Group of Eight summit on the southern Japan island of Okinawa in July. 

 "Unless they can get together there and reach a Plaza-style accord, the U.S. dollar will continue to strengthen," said John Basile, head of corporate foreign exchange at Colonial State Bank in Sydney. 

 "And until then, there's not a lot the Europeans, the Canadians, the South Africans or ourselves can do about it." 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | nanl : Analysis | ncat : Content Types   REausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia | namz : North America | usa : United States   ANDocument lba0000020010821dw5h00as5  



 HD Australian PM says not forced to follow U.S. hikes.    WC306 words   PD17 May 2000   ET04:06   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2000 Reuters Limited
   LP CANBERRA, May 17 (Reuters) - Australian Prime Minister John Howard said on Wednesday that Australia did not necessarily have to follow the United States when it came to interest rate movements. 

 The U.S. Federal Reserve hiked rates 50 basis points overnight. 
   TD Howard told a commercial radio station 4TO in Townsville, Queensland, that the question of Australian interest rates had to be left to the Reserve Bank but Australia did not have to follow the leader. 

 "I was very interested in a speech made (on Tuesday) by the secretary of the Treasury ... and I agree with him that Australia has a lot of independence of movement as far as our interest rates and other things are concerned," Howard said. 

 "But that is a matter that the bank will have to take into account when it next meets and I don't want to make a judgement at this stage as to what it might do. 

 "All I can point to is that there are some differences between the American economy and the Australian." 

 The Reserve Bank of Australia has lifted rates four times by a total of 1.25 percentage points over the past six months. 

 Howard said there were no domestic pressures on interest rates. 

 "Wages growth is actually very comfortably within the Reserve Bank's range," he said. 

 "Wages growth in Australia is not a problem, inflation is not a problem either. All of the indicators are good. 

 "We are part of the world economy, we can't separate ourselves from the world economy, but that doesn't mean to say that in a knee-jerk fashion, we follow everything that happens overseas." 

 ((Canberra newsroom +61-2-6273 2730, fax +61-2-6273 2842, canberra.newsroom@reuters.com)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia | namz : North America | usa : United States   ANDocument lba0000020010821dw5h00aon  



 HD Asian markets relieved by Fed rate hike.    BY By Robin Elsham    WC728 words   PD17 May 2000   ET03:56   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2000 Reuters Limited
   LP TOKYO, May 17 (Reuters) - Asian financial markets breathed a collective sigh of relief on Wednesday following the U.S. Federal Reserve's half point rate hike overnight, seeing the move as good for the global economy. 

 Stocks rose modestly in Japan and Australia, jumped in South Korea, and were expected to open broadly higher in Taiwan when trading begins. 
   TD The dollar rose against the yen while the euro slid against both the U.S. and Japanese currencies. That's because the U.S. rate hike boosts the appeal of U.S. securities, thus leeching investment funds away from both Japanese and European asset markets. 

 The Fed move had only a slight impact on the Japanese government bond (JGB) market, the world's largest government debt market. 

 On Wednesday, the U.S.-Japan yield differential, as gauged by 10-year benchmark bond yields, remained flat at around 465 basis points on Wednesday from two month ago. 

 The U.S. stock market displayed unusual resilience in the wake of the Federal Reserve's move to raise the key federal funds rate by half a percentage point to 6.5 percent, the largest rise in more than five years. 

 The Dow Jones industrial average gained 1.17 percent to 10,935 and the tech-heavy Nasdaq composite index surged 3.05 percent at 3,718. 

 Asian equity markets rose in turn, seeing the rate hike as likely the last major increase needed to slow the booming U.S. economy, the most important export market for many Asian manufacturers. 

 "Fears of interest-related mood swings in the U.S. market have been suspended for now, and that's a big help," said Hitoshi Ichio, senior strategist at Commerz Securities in Tokyo. 

 Japan's benchmark Nikkei average opened up 37.56 points or 0.21 percent at 17,588.81. 

 Shares in high-tech blue chips such as Sony Corp and Fujitsu Ltd firmed in early trade, as investors returned from the sidelines. Sony was up more than one percent while Fujitsu gained more than two percent in the first 10 minutes of trade. 

 South Korea's benchmark Korea Composite Stock Price Index (KOSPI) rose 1.98 percent, and the Kosdaq over-the-counter market was up 1.91 percent in early trading. 

 Australian stocks opened mixed, with benchmark index modestly lower but more stocks advancing than declining. 

 The S&P/ASX 200 index dipped five points to 3084.2,while the old All Ordinaries Index fell 4.7 points to3,082.6. Advancing stocks outpaced declines by three to two. "The half a percentage point rise was well and truly factored into our market," said CIBC Eyres Reed dealer David Massey. 

 New Zealand's benchmark NZSE-40 Index slipped 3.03 points in early trade, after the Reserve Bank of New Zealand lifted the official cash rate by 50 basis points to 6.5 percent early on Wednesday. 

 "The markets are probably slightly concerned that you've got an interest rate environment that looks like it's going to keep tightening even though other evidence might be that we're starting to get a bit of a slowdown," ABN AMRO broker Phil Hardie Boys said. 

 The same reaction may occur when trading begins in Hong Kong, where interest rates are closely tied to U.S. credit charges. 

 Taiwan stocks were also expected to open higher. 

 Meanwhile, most Asian currencies were softer as higher U.S. rates drew funds away from the region. 

 The Thai baht was down at fresh seven-month lows at 39.40/45 per dollar compared to 39.22/27 late on Tuesday, while the Korean won was a shade softer at 1,115.3 from 1,114.6. 

 The Taiwan dollar was hovering around two-month lows at T$30.74/84, having eased to 30.782 on Tuesday. 

 Dealers said sentiment had not been helped by a report in the Sydney Morning Herald newspaper that China is planning to blockade Taiwan's key port of Kaohsiung in September. 

 The report said secret U.S. intelligence forecasts, shared with Australia, suggested plans were under way for a blockade to force Taiwan to open talks on reunification with the mainland. ((Tokyo Equities Desk +81-3 5473-3744 tokyo.equities.newsroom@reuters.com)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m11 : Equity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REasia :  | asiaz : Asia | easiaz : Eastern Asia | jap : Japan | namz : North America | usa : United States   ANDocument lba0000020010821dw5h00ant  



 HDLEADER - The Fed's unfinished task.   WC475 words   PD17 May 2000   SNFinancial Times   SCFTFT   PG22   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2000 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPThe US Federal Reserve's Open Market Committee has rightly abandoned its gradualist approach and raised rates by half a percentage point. This is fine for now. But the momentum that has built up in the US economy means that further rate rises must follow soon if demand growth is to be contained.

The credibility of the US Fed reached a high point during the global financial crisis of summer 1998 but has come under strain during the past few months. The Fed, it appears, has been distracted by the evidence of the new economy. It has also been unsure of how to deal with the enormous impact that stock market wealth has had on consumer spending.
   TDThe Fed's strategy has been to increase interest rates in quarter-point stages, in an attempt to quell demand without unnecessarily stifling growth. But it is now very clear that it should have responded more vigorously to the demand boom that has been building up.

Evidence of economic overheating has mounted since the Fed's last meeting in March. First quarter gross domestic product figures did record a slowdown in the overall rate of economic growth from the blistering pace of 7.3 per cent recorded in the final quarter of last year. But much of the change was due to inventory adjustment, while consumer spending sped ahead at a rate of 8.3 per cent. Despite the prospect of further interest rate rises, consumer confidence remains high.

The consumer price index rose strongly in March. April's figures, released yesterday, showed some moderation, but the core rate is still on an upward trend. Unemployment has dipped below 4 per cent, and wage pressures are growing. Industrial production rose by 0.9 per cent in April, the fastest rate for 19 months.

Monetary policy should lead economic activity; over the past few months, it has lagged behind it. Once momentum has built up in an economy, it is hard to slow growth down again without triggering some kind of crunch.

In the US, the nature of such a crunch is not hard to envisage. Should inflation become entrenched, interest rates could rise substantially, leading to falls in the stock market.

Consumers would then stop spending, and US assets would become less attractive to foreign investors, driving down the dollar and making the financing of the huge current account deficit much more problematic.

The Fed has done the least needed to signal its concern about the demand boom. But a half-point rate rise may well be insufficient to steer the economy toward a soft landing. At next month's meeting, rates may have to rise substantially once again. With so little slack in the US economy, there is now no room for complacency.

Copyright Financial Times Limited 2000. All Rights Reserved. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument ftft000020010808dw5h01asx  



 HDFed raises rates by half-point to damp US growth.   BYBy GERARD BAKER.    WC548 words   PD17 May 2000   SNFinancial Times   SCFTFT   PG1   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2000 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPThe US Federal Reserve yesterday signalled a new urgency in its attempts to damp the blazing American economy, raising short-term interest rates by half a percentage point to their highest level since the US emerged from recession in 1991.

The Fed's policy-making open market committee lifted its key interest rate, the target for the fed funds rate at which it lends to the banking system, to 6.5 per cent. The central bank also raised its largely symbolic discount rate by half a point to 6 per cent.
   TDThe move marked the abandonment of the gradualist approach to monetary policy that has been the Fed's hallmark for the past five years. It was the first time since early 1995 that interest rates have moved by other than a quarter of a percentage point.

Explaining its decision, the FOMC repeated its now familiar concern that the rapid pace of demand growth was outstripping supply, and hinted that there might be more rate rises to come.

"Against the background of its long-term goals of price stability and sustainable economic growth and of the information already available, the Committee believes the risks are weighted mainly toward conditions that may generate heightened inflation pressures in the foreseeable future."

Financial markets had anticipated the more aggressive tightening after a string of reports indicated the US economy was continuing to grow at breakneck speed and that long-subdued inflationary pressure may be on the rise. Bond and stock prices slipped a little after the announcement, but the Dow Jones Industrial Average still closed 126.79 points higher at 10,934.57.

Attention now shifts to the next Fed meeting at the end of June and to whether there will be any evidence to prevent another rate rise.

The Fed has lifted short-term rates by 1.75 percentage points in the past year in an attempt to slow growth. In the last six months of last year, the economy grew at an annual rate of more than 6 per cent. That barely slowed in the first three months of 2000 to 5.4 per cent.

In recent months there have been signs of inflationary pressures - notably a 4.3 per cent increase in employment costs in the year to March, and a 0.4 per cent leap in consumer prices excluding food and energy costs in March, one of the largest increases in the past five years.

Some analysts think Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman, and his colleagues will wait a while to see if their actions have been sufficient to slow growth. The lags associated with monetary policy changes mean clear evidence of a deceleration may not emerge until the second half of the year.

In the past week some reports have suggested the inflation risk is less than previously thought. Yesterday, the Labor Department reported that seasonally adjusted consumer prices were unchanged in April. Excluding food and energy, prices rose by just 0.2 per cent.

But the tone of yesterday's announcement suggests the Fed thinks it may need to do more. Editorial Comment, Page 22 Lex, Page 24 Bonds, Page 38 Currencies, Page 39.

Copyright Financial Times Limited 2000. All Rights Reserved. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument ftft000020010808dw5h01aq6  



 HD UPDATE 1-Thailand sees weaker baht if US hikes rates.    WC348 words   PD16 May 2000   ET10:54   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2000 Reuters Limited
   LP BANGKOK, May 16 (Reuters) - Thai central bank Governor Chatu Mongol Sonakul said on Tuesday the baht would weaken if Thai interest rates stayed stable after a U.S. rate hike predicted later in the day. 

 Chatu Mongol told reporters Thailand would keep a low-interest rate policy to stimulate the economy even if U.S. interest rates rose. 
   TD "If we followed the rate hike in the U.S., there would not be much change on our foreign exchange rate," he said. "But if we keep our rates at the current level, our exchange rates would be weaker." 

 He said the central bank would not intervene in the foreign exchange market unless there was "volatile change" in the baht after a U.S. rate hike. 

 "We would not do anything if the foreign exchange rate didn't move too volatilely." 

 At 0817 GMT, the baht was quoted at 39.28/33, compared with 39.27/30 in Asia mid-morning trade. 

 The U.S. central bank, the Federal Reserve, is widely expected to raise U.S. rates by between 25 and 50 basis points at a meeting on Tuesday. 

 Thailand has steadily cut interest rates over the past two years to try to help the financial sector work off massive non-performing loans, encourage corporates to repay their debts, and spur economic recovery. 

 The minimum lending rate has fallen from more than 15 percent in mid-1998 to just over eight percent. 

 "We still go by the same (low-rate) policy," Chatu Mongol said. "Our growth rate is still too low to increase interest rates now." 

 He said it would be "premature" to raise domestic interest rates now, which would slow down the economy, now recovering from a contraction of 10 percent in 1998. 

 The Thai economy plunged into its most severe modern recession after the government devalued the baht on July 2, 1997. 

 The gross domestic product grew four percent in 1999 and is expected to grow between four and five percent this year. 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REasiaz : Asia | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | namz : North America | seasiaz : Southeast Asia | thail : Thailand | usa : United States   ANDocument lba0000020010821dw5g00hgk  



 HD Citibank raises prime  interest rate  to 9.5 pct.    WC154 words   PD16 May 2000   ET22:51   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2000 Reuters Limited
   LP NEW YORK, May 16 (Reuters) - Citibank, a unit of financial services giant Citigroup , said on Tuesday it is raising its prime lending rate to 9.50 percent from 9.00 percent, effective Wednesday, May 17. 

 The announcement follows the Federal Reserve's decision on Tuesday to raise the federal funds rate by 50 basis points to 6.50 percent from 6.00 percent. 
   TD This is the sixth rate hike in the funds rate in 10 months. 

 The Fed also raised the discount rate for emergency loans to banks to 6.00 percent from 5.50 percent. 

 The Fed last raised the funds rate by 25 basis points to 6.00 from 5.75 on March 21, which also prompted many banks to raise the prime rate to 9.00 percent from 8.75 percent. 

 (( - New York Equities Desk, 212-859-1700 )). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   ANDocument lba0000020010821dw5g00bov  



 HD U.S. banks lift key lending rate to 9.5 percent.    BY By Mary Kelleher    WC538 words   PD16 May 2000   ET21:59   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2000 Reuters Limited
   LP NEW YORK, May 16 (Reuters) - U.S. banks on Tuesday raised the rate charged the most-credit worthy borrowers - making auto, home and credit card loans more expensive - after the U.S. Federal Reserve increased a key interest rate to its highest level in nearly a decade. 

 Charlotte, N.C.-based Bank of America Corp., the biggest U.S. bank, Bank One Corp., and First Union Corp. boosted the so-called prime lending rate to 9.5 percent from 9.0 percent, effective Wednesday. 
   TD Their moves follow a decision by the Fed on Tuesday to increase a short-term rate by half a percent, its biggest increase in more than five years. The Fed has raised rates six times since June, to keep the threat of inflation at bay as the economy booms. 

 U.S. consumers will now pay more for credit card, auto and mortgage loans, many of which are tied to market rates. Banks also will pay more to fund new loans, at a time when the pool of customer deposits once used to fund loans cheaply is diminishing. 

 "To the extent that you have a loan that is tied to other market interest rates, it is likely to get more expensive," said Diane Glossman, a banking industry analyst at UBS Warburg. "The majority of loans these days are tied to some kind of rate ... For the banks, at the margin, funding costs rise." 

 To prevent the U.S. economy from overheating, as it continues its unprecedented expansion, the Fed boosted its federal funds overnight bank lending rate half-a-percent to 6.5 percent. It also raised the more symbolic discount rate on emergency loans to banks by the same amount, to 6.0 percent. 

 The Fed also suggested that it intended increasing borrowing costs again in the coming months. 

 Bank and financial shares fell slightly after the Fed announced the increases. Rising interest rates are generally considered bad for banks because they boost the borrowing costs for banks and reduce the demand for loans. 

 Bank of America stock fell 15/16 to 49-11/16 on the New York Stock Exchange on Tuesday, Chase Manhattan Corp. lost 9/16 to 74-1/16 and First Union fell 3/16 to 33-9/16. 

 Counteracting this, banks use sophisticated hedging strategies to protect themselves against rate increases. 

 "We've already been dealing with margin compression at the banks," Glossman said. "This change in interest rates certainly is not expected to alter that trend." 

 Banks' margins have narrowed in recent quarters, as the difference between the amount they pay to borrow and make on loans shrinks. A rise in interest rates also put pressure on borrowers who are barely making payments, analysts have said. 

 But the chief economist of the National Automobile Dealers Association, Paul Taylor, said the rise would only modestly impact auto sales. 

 "While customers financing their vehicles through banks and credit unions will see slightly higher rates, auto company finance entities will likely continue to offer attractive below-market rates (from 2-8 percent)," he said in a statement. 

 ((Financial services desk 212-859-1644)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   ANDocument lba0000020010821dw5g00bmd  



 HD UPDATE 1-U.S. financial stocks off after Fed hike.    BY By Greg Cresci    WC430 words   PD16 May 2000   ET21:27   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2000 Reuters Limited
   LP NEW YORK, May 16 (Reuters) - U.S. financial stocks eased Tuesday after news that the Federal Reserve's interest rate-setting committee hiked rates by half a percentage point to 6.5 percent as part of an ongoing effort to guard against inflation. 

 Rising interest rates are generally thought to have a negative impact on the financial services sector because they raise borrowing costs and sap lending activity. 
   TD "It was fully anticipated and the market's taking it in stride," said Otis Bradley, an analyst with Gilford Securities Inc. in New York. "I would bet that we're going to have no more rate increases, or one more 25-point bump and that's it and that the financial stocks will do well. I think the financial stocks will lead the market (upward)." 

 Shortly after the Federal Open Market Committee rate increase announcement, most financial stocks were trading lower. 

 Shares in financial services bellwether Citigroup Inc. were off 1-1/16 at 61-13/16 while Bank of America Corp. shares were off 15/16 at 49-11/16. 

 Top brokerage Merrill Lynch & Co. saw its shares down 13/16 at 108-13/16 and shares in investment bank J.P. Morgan and Co. were trading 1-1/2 lower at 130-1/2. 

 Despite living up to Wall Street's expectation of a 50 basis point interest rate rise, the FOMC announcement caused broader indices of U.S. stocks to retreat from their earlier rally Tuesday. 

 The Dow Jones Industrial Average was up 91.84 at 10899 after reaching a high of 10,963 earlier in the session, while the tech-laden Nasdaq composite index was up 68.24 at 3675.89 after an intra day peak of 3729.12. 

 "I think the brokerage stocks are much less susceptible to rate increases than they were not too long ago.... In the near term, I think they're going to remain steady," said Michael Flanagan, an analyst with Financial Service Analytics in Philadelphia. "I think the brokerage stocks are going to hold up fairly well in light of the rate increase since much of it has already been factored in." 

 One of the few financial stocks able to maintain earlier gains was No. 2 U.S. brokerage Morgan Stanley Dean Witter & Co. , which was trading up 2-3/4 at 76-13/16. 

 Financial stocks gained ground Monday in a broad market rally. 

 ((-Greg Cresci, Financial Services Desk 212-859-1726)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 
   NSccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m11 : Equity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   ANDocument lba0000020010821dw5g00bkl  



 HD CHRONOLOGY-Fed rate changes since 1992.    WC380 words   PD16 May 2000   ET20:30   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2000 Reuters Limited
   LP WASHINGTON, May 16 (Reuters) - The following is a 

 chronology of the U.S. Federal Reserve's interest rate moves 
   TD since September 1992. Each move is measured in basis points 

 (bp), which are one hundredths of a percentage point. So 25 

 basis points equal 0.25 percentage point. 


FED FUNDS			DISCOUNT
DATE	  CHANGE	 LEVEL	  CHANGE	  LEVEL



END OF EASING CYCLE IN 1992 THAT STARTED IN 1989



Sep 4    down 25 bp     3.00 pct	 none	  3.00 pct



1994-95 TIGHTENING CYCLE



Feb 4     up 25 bp	3.25 pct	 none	  3.00 pct
Mar 22    up 25 bp	3.50 pct	 none	  3.00 pct
Apr 18    up 25 bp	3.75 pct	 none	  3.00 pct
May 17    up 50 bp	4.25 pct     up 50 bp	3.50 pct
Aug 16    up 50 bp	4.75 pct     up 50 bp	4.00 pct
Nov 15    up 75 bp	5.50 pct     up 75 bp	4.75 pct



1995



Feb 1     up 50 bp	6.00 pct     up 50 bp	5.25 pct



1995-96 EASING



Jul 6    down 25 bp     5.75 pct	 none	  5.25 pct
Dec 19   down 25 bp     5.50 pct	 none	  5.25 pct



1996



Jan 31   down 25 bp     5.25 pct    down 25 bp     5.00 pct



1997 ISOLATED TIGHTENING



Mar 25    up 25 bp	5.50 pct	 none	  5.00 pct



1998 EASING



Sep 29   down 25 bp     5.25 pct	 none	  5.00 pct



Oct 15   down 25 bp     5.00 pct    down 25 bp     4.75 pct



Nov 17   down 25 bp     4.75 pct    down 25 bp     4.50 pct



1999-2000 TIGHTENING



Jun 30    up 25 bp	5.00 pct	 none	  4.50 pct
Aug 24    up 25 bp	5.25 pct     up 25 bp	4.75 pct
Nov 16    up 25 bp	5.50 pct     up 25 bp	5.00 pct



2000



Feb 2     up 25 bp	5.75 pct     up 25 bp	5.25 pct
Mar 21    up 25 bp	6.00 pct     up 25 bp	5.50 pct
May 16    up 50 bp	6.50 pct     up 50 bp	6.00 pct



((Washington newsroom 202 898 8329,



washington.economic.newsroom@reuters.com)).



(C) Reuters Limited 2000.

   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   ANDocument lba0000020010821dw5g00bh4  



 HD TEXT-Statement by Fed after FOMC meeting.    WC229 words   PD16 May 2000   ET20:28   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2000 Reuters Limited
   LP WASHINGTON, May 16 (Reuters) - The Federal Reserve issued the following statement after its meeting on Tuesday of the interest rate-setting Federal Open Market Committee: 

 "The Federal Open Market Committee voted today to raise its target for the federal funds rate by 50 basis points to 6-1/2 percent. In a related action, the Board of Governors approved a 50 basis point increase in the discount rate to 6 percent. 
   TD Increases in demand have remained in excess of even the rapid pace of productivity-driven gains in potential supply, exerting continued pressure on resources. The Committee is concerned that this disparity in the growth of demand and potential supply will continue, which could foster inflationary imbalances that would undermine the economy's outstanding performance. 

 Against the background of its long-term goals of price stability and sustainable economic growth and of the information already available, the Committee believes the risks are weighted mainly toward conditions that may generate heightened inflation pressures in the foreseeable future. 

 In taking the discount rate action, the Federal Reserve Board approved requests submitted by the Boards of Directors of the Federal Reserve Banks of Boston, Cleveland, Richmond, and San Francisco. The discount rate is the rate charged depository institutions when they borrow short-term adjustment credit from their district Federal Reserve Banks." 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | ntra : Transcript   REnamz : North America | usa : United States | usdc : Washington DC | uss : Southern U.S.   ANDocument lba0000020010821dw5g00bgz  



 HD INSTANT VIEW-Fed raises key rates 50 basis points.    WC1,166 words   PD16 May 2000   ET20:36   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2000 Reuters Limited
   LP NEW YORK, May 16 (Reuters) - Following are comments from Wall Street analysts and market experts after the Federal Reserve raised two key U.S. interest rates by a half percentage point on Tuesday. 

 The Fed raised the federal funds rate for overnight loans between banks to 6.50 percent from 6.0 percent, and increased its more symbolic discount rate to 6.0 percent from 5.50 percent. 
   TD It was the six increase in the fed funds rate since last June, and the first half point increase during that time. 

 The Fed also announced that it sees inflation risks ahead. 

 All U.S. primary dealers had predicted the Fed would raise rates on Tuesday, with 27 of those 29 dealers forecasting a half point increase. 

 TIM HORAN, DIRECTOR OF INTERNATIONAL FIXED INCOME, LORD ABBETT AND CO., NEW YORK: "It looks like they are on course for further tightening here and it would appear they are taking the appropriate action given the types of inflation risks that they foresee here. This is appropriate and we would expect them to be vigilant in observing the price data going forward with the expectation that they would continue tightening in June should these pressures persist. You are probably safe in assuming 25 basis points in June but I would reconsider that based on the inflation cocktail mix, given the pickup in oil prices and energy sector, which may reflect stronger growth abroad." 

 STAN SHIPLEY, SENIOR ECONOMIST, MERRILL LYNCH, NEW YORK: "It looks like the Fed is trying to get caught up. They thought they were a bit behind the curve so they raised it 50 (basis points) and they think they'll have to tighten further in June. 

 "There's no real sign that the economy is slowing much. Housing is still range-bound, consumer spending did slow in April but most question did it really slow or was it weather-related. We all think the economy is still too strong and they'll have to tighten somewhat more in June. 

 "The Fed made as strong a statement as it could about slowing the economy." 

 MARILYN SCHAJA, MONEY MARKET ECONOMIST, DONALDSON LUFKIN & JENRETTE SECURITIES CORP.: "It was very much as anticipated so there were no surprises. Besides that it will be subject to the data when and if the Fed goes (to raise rates) again. 

 "The text of the FOMC statement is pretty much the same statement as prior ones. 

 "They will look at data - CPI, GDP and wages among others (to determine future interest rate actions)." 

 CHRISTOPHER LOW, CHIEF ECONOMIST, FIRST TENNESSEE CAPITAL MARKETS, NEW YORK: "The language is hawkish. This will bolster expectations of continued rate increases for the June meeting. 

 "It's a step up in aggression (of Fed tightening policy). My call is 25 (basis points in a rate increase) for June." 

 MICHAEL GREGORY, SENIOR ECONOMIST, LEHMAN BROTHERS, NEW YORK: "The Fed's statement was mildly more hawkish than it was in previous statements. But it doesn't necessarily provide any more fodder to those who are thinking that the Fed will keep going with 50 basis-point rate hikes. It's basically what the market was looking for. We're still 50-50 on whether they'll go 50 (basis points) at the June meeting. 

 "Over the next six weeks, the growth indicators will be pretty strong. Everything here suggests they'll be going again in June, either with a 25-or 50 basis-point hike, and there's not much here to tell us which it will be." 

 JEFFREY PALMA, ECONOMIST, UBS WARBURG LLC, STAMFORD, CONN.: "The move is very much as expected. There's nothing new. 

 "The Fed is validating the market's expectations. What the members of the Fed are saying is that the market is looking at things the right way, that the risk to the economy is higher inflationary pressure as the year goes on, and with that comes the likelihood for higher interest rates over the balance of the year. It's very clear the Fed didn't deem it necessary to tell us anything new. It's telling the markets they are looking at things the same way as the Fed. 

 "We're still looking for a 7 percent funds rate at the end of the year. We're expecting a 25 basis-point move at the June or August meeting, and another in the fourth quarter. It depends on the data flow over the next six weeks." 

 AVERY SHENFELD, ECONOMIST, CIBC WORLD MARKETS, TORONTO: "The statement was identical to the previous one. 

 "They are looking past inflation on the grounds that it is hard to find outside the energy sector and are focusing on the potential inflation down the road if growth does not slow. 

 "The action in June is going to depend on six weeks worth of data which is hard to assess. I think there is no mechanical rule that going once 50 (basis points) that they have to go another 50 basis points, but it may well be another 50 basis points in June. At that point, I think they would take a pause and see how this additional tightening works its way through the system. 

 "At this point, having revealed their willingness to go 50 (basis points), another 50 basis points is more likely now." 

 DAVID RESLER, CHIEF ECONOMIST, NOMURA SECURITIES INTERNATIONAL INC., NEW YORK: "I think the statement here is exactly the same as it was last time. The next meeting and the period in between is very telling. There is still a bias towards inflation pressure. That does not commit them to further action. If we see continuing strength in demand, the Fed will follow through with another rate hike in June. A lot is going to depend on what the Fed sees in the next 6-8 weeks. Inflation has not deteriorated much since they started this tightening process. We are starting to see some signs housing activity is beginning to cool off." 

 CARY LEAHEY, SENIOR U.S. ECONOMIST, DEUTSCHE BANK SECURITIES, NEW YORK: "I don't think there's any surprise here, but they did have two sentences that the growth of demand still outstrips potential supply and would foster inflationary imbalances that would undermine the economy's performance. So I don't think this was terribly hard hitting, but went just beyond the pat phrase that there was a bias in place. 

 "It's giving markets a strong signal that they're going to be back at least one more time, if not two or three times before the end of the year. They could have been harder hitting in the sense that they could have put a time stamp on it, but they left their options open. This was strongly enough worded to warn people that they'd be coming back to the well again." 

 (( - U.S. Financial Markets Desk, 212-859-1660 )). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   ANDocument lba0000020010821dw5g00b7o  



 HD BOC would welcome 50 basis point hike by Fed.    WC213 words   PD16 May 2000   ET19:34   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2000 Reuters Limited
   LP OTTAWA, May 16 (Reuters) - Bank of Canada Governor Gordon Thiessen said on Tuesday he would welcome a 50 basis point interest rate hike by the U.S. Federal Reserve. 

 Thiessen was speaking an hour before the Federal Reserve's rate-setting committee was due to announce what observers widely predicted would be a 50 basis point rise in interest rates. 
   TD "If that's what they do it will be a step in the right direction," Thiessen told reporters after testifying to the House of Commons finance committee. 

 "There's no question...that the U.S. economy has to slow down to something more sustainable and that would be very much in our interest. So that's something we all want to see." 

 Thiessen declined to say whether the strength in the Canadian economy was sufficient to merit a 50 basis point rise in Canada but said: "That strength in the U.S. economy is spilling over into Canada. You see it in all the numbers that are coming through and if you look through the ups and downs I think you still see a very rapid expansion in our economy." ((Reuters Ottawa Bureau 613-235 6745; fax 613-235 5890)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REcana : Canada | caon : Ontario | namz : North America | usa : United States   ANDocument lba0000020010821dw5g00b3w  



 HD UPDATE 4-Fed ups U.S. rates aggressively, sees more.    BY By Knut Engelmann    WC902 words   PD16 May 2000   ET23:38   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2000 Reuters Limited
   LP WASHINGTON, May 16 (Reuters) - The Federal Reserve jacked up U.S. interest rates aggressively on Tuesday, stepping up its year-long fight against inflation in the booming economy and vowing to keep at it until growth finally takes a breather. 

 Boosting sentiment among inflation-wary investors, the Fed raised the key federal funds overnight bank lending rate by half a percentage point to 6.5 percent, the largest rise in more than five years, bringing short-term borrowing costs to a level not seen since the last U.S. recession a decade ago. 
   TD To amplify its move, the Fed also raised the more symbolic discount rate it charges on emergency loans to banks by the same amount to 6.0 percent. 

 "Increases in demand have remained in excess of even the rapid pace of productivity-driven gains in potential supply, exerting continued pressure on resources," the Fed said in a statement released after a closed-door meeting of its rate-setting Federal Open Market Committee. 

 "The Committee is concerned that this disparity in the growth of demand and potential supply will continue, which could foster inflationary imbalances that would undermine the economy's outstanding performance," it added. 

 Key U.S. commercial banks swiftly followed suit and, within minutes of the Fed news, announced increases in their own key borrowing rate, the so-called prime rate that determines the cost of lending to the vast majority of their customers. That should translate into higher rates on everything from mortgages to car loans and help to slow red-hot U.S. consumer demand. 

 Using standard language to warn of further rate increases in the not-too-distant future, the Fed said the key risk to the economy still came from higher inflation. 

 "If we see continuing strength in demand, the Fed will follow through with another rate hike in June," said David Resler, chief economist at Nomura Securities International Inc. in New York. The Fed's next rate meeting is on June 27-28. 

 AND THEN THERE WERE SIX 

 The Fed's move followed five successive quarter-point increases in the bellwether fed funds rate since June 1999, which had done little in slowing the blockbuster U.S. economy to a more manageable and potentially less inflationary rate. 

 Fed watchers immediately began wondering whether the next U.S. rate rise would be as aggressive as Tuesday's, or whether the Fed would return to its tried-and-tested policy of bumping up borrowing costs bit by bit in increments of a quarter point - or 25 basis points in the parlance of financial markets. 

 Wayne Ayers, chief economist at FleetBoston Financial and a former Fed economist, said tentative signs of a slowdown in interest-rate sensitive sectors of the economy were just now beginning to emerge, giving the Fed some wiggle room. "I think 25 (basis points) is a safe bet at this point," he said. 

 But Anthony Chan, managing director and chief economist at Banc One Investment Advisors, said the statement's language hinted at growing inflation worries inside the Fed. "Another 50 basis point adjustment is just around the corner," he said. 

 Bond prices mostly firmed on the rate news. Stocks fell from earlier highs but quickly rebounded as investors cheered the Fed's anti-inflation resolve even as they pondered the prospect of rising rates that could hurt consumer spending and increase companies' investment costs. The Dow Jones industrial average closed up almost 1.2 percent at 10,934.57 points. 

 The rate decision came after the government earlier on Tuesday said the key Consumer Price Index held steady in April as energy and transportation costs fell, signalling inflation remains tame even in the tenth year of an unbroken expansion. 

 FLAT INFLATION 

 The unchanged U.S. Consumer Price Index in April compared to a 0.7 percent jump in March. The core CPI - which strips out volatile food and energy components and is closely tracked by the Fed - rose 0.2 percent after March's 0.4 percent gain. 

 But Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan has long worried that red-hot economic growth at rates above 5 percent, combined with falling jobless rates, will put so much pressure on the economy that inflation will tick up unless key rates continue to rise. 

 The U.S. administration declined to comment directly on the rate move, saying it respected the Fed's independence. 

 "The Fed will do its job and we will do ours, and I'm going to let them make whatever decision that Chairman Greenspan and the others think is warranted," President Bill Clinton said. 

 The leading contenders to succeed Clinton, Vice President Al Gore and Texas Republican Governor George W. Bush, declined to comment directly on the rate news. 

 Others were less circumspect in their reaction. 

 NAM President Jerry Jasinowski called the Fed's decision "excessive and unwarranted," while AFL-CIO President John Sweeney said it was a "serious mistake." Chamber of Commerce chief economist Martin Regalia said in a statement he hoped the Fed "will not kill our record-expansion." 

 And Sen. Tom Harkin, an Iowa Democrat and long-time Fed critic, said the move risked throwing the economy back into recession. "With a little nick here and a little nick there - pretty soon our economy is going to bleed to death," he said. 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States | usdc : Washington DC | uss : Southern U.S.   ANDocument lba0000020010821dw5g00ard  



 HD GOLDMAN SACHS' ABBY COHEN - SEES FED ABLE TO EXTEND EXPANSION.    WC463 words   PD16 May 2000   ET21:18   SNMarket News International   SCMARNEW   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2000. Market News International, Inc.
   LP - U.S. Economy Remains 'Solid at Its Core;' Worst of Inflation Passed - Sees S&P Index at 1625 About a Year from Now; Period of Calm Over 

 WASHINGTON (MktNews) - The Federal Reserve likely will be successful in stretching the current U.S. expansion, slowing the pace of growth in an economy that remains "solid at its core," Goldman Sachs Managing Director Abby Joseph Cohen said Tuesday. 
   TD Cohen, who spoke just before the Fed policymakers announced a 50 basis point interest rate increase, said the five rate increases since June of 1999 were beginning to have an impact and growth was showing signs of slowing. 

 However, in her speech to a global trade forum sponsored by the Economic Strategy Institute, a Washington think tank, Cohen seemed to indicate that further rate increases, beyond Tuesday, would be inappropriate. 

 She reminded the audience of monetary policy lags, and said, "I think we need to sit back and wait and watch and see the impact of what has already been done, as well as what might happen in next hour." 

 "This is an economy that is solid at its core," Cohen said. "It is our expectation that the Fed will be successful in elongating this expansion." 

 As a result, real GDP should slow this year, and she predicted that "the worst news on inflation has already passed." 

 Meanwhile, Cohen said her firm is "still optimistic about the U.S. stock market," and predicted the S&P 500 would reach 1625 about 12 months from now, and the market should continue to generate good returns. 

 But she noted that gains going forward would be from the current levels where stocks are about evenly valued, rather than far undervalued as they have been in recent years. 

 And despite this optimism, Cohen cautioned that "volatility in the stock market will not soon return to the very calm levels of the 1990s," although she said it was the calm that was unusual while the current volatility is much closer to historical levels. 

 Some issues to monitor for possible signs of trouble for the U.S. expansion, is the lackluster performance in Germany, Japan and China, as well as the fiscal policies espoused by the U.S. presidential candidates, particularly whether they support paying down the debt. 

 Asked about the poor performance of the euro since its launch, Cohen said angst about the currency in Europe is somewhat counterproductive, since the currency has helped the region's export growth which has fueled economic growth. 

 But she said the new currency is being tested, and "our currency team thinks it is undervalued, and should rise somewhat in the next several months." 

 ** Market News International Washington Bureau: (202) 371-2121 ** 

 [TOPICS: MGU 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States | usdc : Washington DC | uss : Southern U.S.   ANDocument marnew0020010814dw5g00ebj  



 HDUS surge points to Fed rate rise half point.   BYBy STEPHEN FIDLER.    WC546 words   PD16 May 2000   SNFinancial Times   SCFTFT   PG1   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2000 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LP- US surge points to Fed rate rise HALF POINT INCREASE EXPECTED TODAY AS AMERICA'S INDUSTRIAL OUTPUT SEES FASTEST GROWTH FOR 19 MONTHS.

US industrial production surged ahead in April at its fastest rate in 19 months, adding fuel to expectations that the US Federal Reserve will order a big increase in short-term interest rates today.
   TDThe Fed's open market committee has moved its benchmark federal funds rate five times in quarter-point steps to the current 6 per cent. But a half-point rise is the almost universal forecast of Fed watchers.

A decisive US rate rise would raise concerns in the rest of the world about a "hard landing" for the buoyant US economy and a further strengthening of the dollar against a weak euro.

According to some economists, the Fed is a prisoner of market expectations: a rise of less than half a point would risk setting off another stock market rally that would add fuel to a red-hot economy.

"It's hard to see the Fed being comfortable unleashing a new wave of financial stimulus," said Robert DiClemente of Salomon Smith Barney in New York.

A half point move would be the first rise of such a magnitude since February 1995, which topped a three percentage point increase in rates that had begun a year earlier. That series of interest rate increases successfully engineered a soft landing for the economy, extending the expansion for a further five years into the longest on record.

However, in contrast with 1994 there is now much less slack in the economy, with unemployment at a 30-year low of 3.9 per cent. "Unlike the cyclical false alarm in 1994, the current alarm should be seen as the real thing," said Stephen Roach of Morgan Stanley.

"For that reason alone, the risk of a hard landing cannot be ruled out," he added.

Some investors were hoping that last week's indications of a fall in retail sales during April, and lower producer prices, were early signs that the Fed's interest rate increases and the falling stock markets were beginning to have some effect.

But there was no evidence in yesterday's data to indicate that the Fed's efforts to slow down the economy were having an effect on industry. Industrial production climbed 0.9 per cent in April after jumping 0.7 per cent in March, higher than the 0.3 per cent gain it previously reported.

Capacity utilisation rose to 82.1 per cent from 81.7. Manufacturing output rose in April for the 17th successive month, by 0.8 per cent after rising 0.9 per cent in March.

The Fed's expected rate increase will come against a backdrop of new consumer inflation statistics, due to be published about six hours before the interest rate announcement, that few economists anticipate will of themselves generate any alarm.

The CPI figure could - if benign - encourage the Fed to hold off from a half-point increase, and is likely to provide a context with which to judge the rate move. Grand old theme, Page 25 Squaring up to Fed, Page 40.

Copyright Financial Times Limited 2000. All Rights Reserved. 
   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1111 : Industrial Production | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument ftft000020010808dw5g01ae4  



 HD Federal Reserve  policy-makers meeting this...    BY By Knut Engelmann    WC863 words   PD15 May 2000   ET10:47   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2000 Reuters Limited
   LP WASHINGTON, May 14 (Reuters) - Federal Reserve policy-makers meeting this week are expected to raise key interest rates by half a percentage point, raising the ante in their increasingly desperate fight against inflation in the booming U.S. economy. 

 Financial markets have firmly priced in a move in the federal funds overnight bank lending rate - which sets the bar for borrowing costs across the economy - to 6.5 percent from 6.0 percent, arguing the Fed's five previous quarter-point moves have had little effect on the booming U.S. economy. 
   TD "So far, the Fed's slow-motion monetary policy has been just too predictable, and the market has become immune to it," said Sung Won Sohn, chief economist at Wells Fargo Bank in Minneapolis. "The purpose will be not to double the pain but to introduce an element of surprise that's been lost." 

 That sentiment is reflected by most Wall Street firms, even though there is a minority of economists who still think the Fed will stick with its tried-and-tested gradual approach. 

 The latest Reuters survey of 29 top investment houses on Friday showed 27 of them expect the central bank to raise rates by half a percentage point at the pivotal policy meeting on Tuesday. What's more, a growing number of them now sees the fed funds rate rising to well over 7.0 percent by year-end. 

 With growth rates lodged in firmly above 5 percent, and evidence of rising wage pressures prompted by the tightest labor market in a generation, the $9 trillion U.S. economy is running at the max as it revels in its longest expansion ever. 

 "What we're getting is a string of things coming together telling us a very consistent story," said Paddy Jilek, director of U.S. economics at Credit Suisse First Boston in New York. 

 Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan, while a strong believer in the wonders that higher productivity growth has bestowed on the U.S. economy, has long worried that demand is far outstripping supply. Balance can only be restored, he has argued, if the price of money - interest rates - goes up substantially. 

 TAKING A BREATHER 

 Still, other Fed watchers argue that does not necessarily translate into a half-point rate rise this week. They say there is mounting evidence the central bank's modest moves over the past year have begun to slow the economy, giving the Fed little reason to stray from its gradualist policy path. 

 They point to slowing demand for housing, falling retail sales and declining producer price inflation as evidence that the economy's interest-rate sensitive sectors are beginning to feel the pain inflicted by higher borrowing costs, which make everything from new mortgages to car loans more expensive. 

 "Greenspan isn't about to jeopardize an impressive record by sending panic through the financial markets with a disruptive, and maybe unnecessary, bold move," said Richard Yamarone of Argus Research Corp. in New York. 

 Those still sitting on the fence are waiting for Tuesday morning's release of key consumer price inflation data for April, which some say is likely to prove their point that price pressures are not really all that threatening yet. That could afford the Fed some last-minute breathing space. 

 Fed policymakers have given remarkably few clues as to what expect on Tuesday. Greenspan has avoided dropping any hints, and his second-in-command Roger Ferguson also sidestepped the issue at several appearances over the past few days. That convinced many in financial markets that the Fed felt no real need to correct their expectations for a half-point rise. 

 PLAYING IT SAFE 

 But it could also mean that at least those two, by far the most influential of the 10-member rate-setting Federal Open Market Committee, are waiting to collate the views of their colleagues before revealing their own preferences. 

 The 74-year old Greenspan, said to have an unquenchable thirst for sometimes obscure statistics, told Japanese officials earlier this month there was much debate, but little conclusive evidence on the outlook for U.S. inflation. 

 Ferguson, meanwhile, said last week at a time of heightened economic uncertainty, he was placing increased weight on the anecdotal evidence provided by the regional Fed presidents who attend the FOMC meeting before making up his mind. 

 Fed policymakers will gather for their meeting at 9:00 a.m. (1300 GMT) on Tuesday, just half an hour after the release of the crucial CPI data. Their decision on interest rates is expected to be released at around 2:15 p.m. (1815 GMT). 

 As usual, their rate decision will be accompanied by a brief statement explaining their decision and laying out the Fed's assessment of future risks. A strong warning of continued inflation risks could set the stage for further aggressive tightening moves in the months ahead. 

 "The statement ... most likely will indicate that the balance of risks remains tilted toward higher inflation, thereby keeping the door open to possible further tightening in coming months," Salomon Smith Barney said in a research note on Friday. 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 
   NSccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States | usdc : Washington DC | uss : Southern U.S.   ANDocument lba0000020010821dw5f00edm  



 HD Fresh rate hike won't stall HK recovery-analysts.    BY By Tiffany Wu    WC634 words   PD15 May 2000   ET11:32   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2000 Reuters Limited
   LP HONG KONG, May 15 (Reuters) - Hong Kong's solid, trade-driven economic recovery is unlikely to be slowed by a widely expected interest rate hike this week though higher rates could further dampen already-sluggish consumer spending, analysts say. 

 Hong Kong banks are poised to announce what would be their third interest rate hike of the year if the U.S. Federal Reserve's policy setting market committee aggressively boosts U.S. interest rates by 50 basis points on Tuesday as expected. 
   TD Hong Kong would likely follow suit because the local dollar is pegged to the U.S. currency. 

 Higher rates will put a bigger burden on Hong Kong mortgage holders and slow the recovery of the local property market as well as increase the cost of capital in general. 

 However, economists said they still expect the economy to grow by five to eight percent this year because trade would remain strong unless there was a noticeable slowdown in the United States, Hong Kong's second biggest trade partner after China. 

 "We're still looking for six percent growth this year because the main source of income is external trade, which is not dependent on interest rates," said Morgan Stanley Dean Witter economist Denise Yam. The government has forecast five percent growth in gross domestic product this year. 

 Hong Kong's economy grew by 2.9 percent in 1999 after shrinking 5.1 percent the previous year as the territory succumbed to Asia's financial crisis. 

 Robust external trade will likely drive year-on-year growth to impressive double-digits in the first quarter, but recovery in the domestic economy has been painstakingly slow, with unemployment remaining high at 5.6 percent, private consumption sluggish and the investment climate weak. 

 MORTAGE WAR, DEFLATION COULD CUSHION HIKES 

 Yam estimated around 20 percent of outstanding mortgages in Hong Kong could not be refinanced because holders were still in negative equity positions. These people would suffer the most from a rate hike. 

 But analysts said two factors would mitigate the impact of higher rates on consumers: prolonged "mortgage wars" by local banks and smaller declines in consumer prices. 

 Aggressive bank competition for mortgages has pushed new mortgage loan rates substantially below prime, analysts said. Many existing borrowers have been able to refinance their mortgages. 

 Analysts also said deflation - falling prices - would moderate as the economy recovered, which meant real interest rates would likely fall this year even though nominal rates were going up. 

 PHASED RATE HIKE COULD LIMIT PSYCHOLOGICAL IMPACT 

 The Hong Kong Monetary Authority was expected to match a U.S. hike by raising the base rate offered at its discount window for overnight funds by a corresponding amount on Wednesday. 

 The Hong Kong Association of Banks (HKAB) would probably also announce a 50 basis point rise in deposit rates after its regular meeting on Friday, though dealers said the banking cartel might split the rise into two 25 basis point moves. 

 Hong Kong savings deposit rates are at 4.25 percent and prime lending rates at 8.75 percent. Individual banks usually match a deposit rate hike with the same boost in prime. 

 ING Barings economist Craig Chan said two, smaller increases might be psychologically easier to swallow. 

 "If they did 25 and 25 within a short period of time, then sentiment stays sort of bearish and the market can discount it...I really still think that this year, the HKAB will want to keep rates as low as possible to force the recovery," he said. 

 "Definitely if they start raising by 50 and then 50, Hong Kong will suffer," Chan added. 

 ((Hong Kong Newsroom +852 2843-6519, Fax +852 2845-0636 hongkong.newsroom@reuters.com)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REasiaz : Asia | china : China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | easiaz : Eastern Asia | hkong : Hong Kong | namz : North America | usa : United States   ANDocument lba0000020010821dw5f00dx1  
 Page 1 of 1      2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.


 

 Page 1      2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.

