 


 HD Euribor futures edge higher after Fed rate cut.    WC179 words   PD28 June 2001   ET09:39   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 Reuters Limited
   LP LONDON, June 28 (Reuters) - Euribor short-term interest rate futures edged higher on Thursday after the U.S. Federal Reserve's 25 basis point cut in its key interest rates on Wednesday. 

 However, analysts said the cut had little direct impact on the outlook for interest rates in the euro zone. 
   TD "There are very much their own issues going on in Europe," said William Porter, strategist at Credit Suisse First Boston. "Although the outlook in the U.S. is dominant for European markets, the immediate Fed outlook is not." At 0732 GMT, the September Euribor future was 0.015 higher at 95.850, discounting one 25 basis point cut in euro zoen interest rates by the end of the coming quarter. The December future was also up 0.015, at 95.915. 

 Markets had been fairly evely split over whether the Fed would ease by 25 or 50 basis points. 

 "The more benign 25 basis point rate cut means absolutely nothing for upcomng ECB policy," said Michael Rottmann, analyst at HypoVereinsbank. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   ANDocument lba0000020010712dx6s00ope  



 HD Welteke-Fed cuts show they alone can't spur growth.    WC131 words   PD28 June 2001   ET13:16   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 Reuters Limited
   LP FRANKFURT, June 28 (Reuters) Bundesbank president Ernst Welteke said on Thursday that U.S. interest rate cuts showed monetary policy alone cannot boost the economy. 

 "The many interest rate cuts in the U.S. demonstrate that monetary policy alone cannot bring about economic upturn," Welteke told a news conference. 
   TD "It's uncertain when the U.S. interest rate cuts will produce a turnaround in the economy," he added. 

 On Wednesday, the U.S. Federal Reserve cut its benchmark interest rate by 25 basis points to 3.75 percent. 

 It was the sixth rate cut by the Fed this year, which has lowered the borrowing costs by a total of 2.75 percentage points so far to counter a sharp economic downturn. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | eec : European Union | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations   REeurz : Europe | gfr : Germany | namz : North America | usa : United States | weurz : Western Europe   ANDocument lba0000020010712dx6s00nl8  



 HD Vicious Cycle: Despite Rate Cuts, Mood in Boardrooms Is Darkening Further --- Corporate Cutbacks Worry Fed, but Consumers Keep Wallets Open for Now --- The Gap Tightens Its Belt    BY By Greg Ip    CRStaff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal   WC2,651 words   PD28 June 2001   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGA1   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 2001, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP WASHINGTON -- Despite Wall Street's widespread hopes for an economic recovery in the second half of 2001, America's business leaders have adopted a decidedly gloomier view. 

 At companies across the nation, sales and earnings continue to fall below already-lowered expectations. Federal Reserve officials attempted to drive away that storm cloud yesterday by cutting interest rates by a quarter percentage point, their sixth rate cut in as many months. The Fed lowered its target for the federal-funds rate -- the rate banks charge on overnight loans -- to 3.75% from 4%. It also lowered its largely symbolic discount rate to 3.25% from 3.5%. Though the cut was the smallest this year -- the previous reductions were half-point moves -- Fed officials, citing the risks of "economic weakness in the foreseeable future," sent a clear signal that they were poised to keep easing credit conditions through the summer. 
   TD The nation's businesses, meanwhile, have dealt with those same uncertainties by cutting spending, closing facilities and laying off workers -- actions that, in turn, further dim the prospects for an imminent turnaround and complicate the Fed's job of keeping the economy out of the ditch. 

 Back in March, executives at Thomasville Furniture Industries Ltd., for example, believed they had done enough belt tightening when they decided to close two factories and eliminate 390 of the company's nearly 8,000 jobs. At the time, interest rates were falling, consumer confidence was stabilizing, the stock market appeared to have bottomed out and housing starts were holding up relatively well. Thomasville thought it would benefit from those trends "a few months down the line," says Chief Financial Officer Paul Dascoli. 

 But as the second quarter draws to a close, the high-end furniture manufacturer has yet to see any sign of a pickup. Customers are still visiting stores that carry its furniture, but buyers are getting scarce. Last week, the company, a unit of Furniture Brands International, of St. Louis, said it would have to close its factory in West Jefferson, N.C., and lay off 239 employees there in addition to 375 other workers across the state. "We had hoped to be seeing a rebound about now, and we're just not seeing it," says Mr. Dascoli. 

 In recent months, U.S. corporate-profit expectations have gone into a free fall. At the beginning of April, Wall Street analysts expected that third-quarter profits of companies in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index would rise by 2% from a year earlier. By early May, they had revised that estimate to a 3% decline. Now, they are looking for an even steeper drop, of 6%, according to Thomson Financial/First Call, whose research director, Chuck Hill, thinks the year-over-year profit decline will end up closer to 15%. 

 From McDonald's Corp. to Merrill Lynch & Co. to Merck & Co., the bad earnings news has cut a broad swath through the nation's boardrooms. And even companies such as Gap Inc. and International Paper Co. -- which haven't recently warned about weaker profits -- are announcing layoffs, cuts in capital spending or both. 

 The vicious cycle of weaker earnings and corporate cutbacks is one of the trends the Fed considers most worrisome right now. In their statement yesterday, Fed officials placed "declining profitability and business capital spending" among the primary reasons for yesterday's rate cut. 

 Nonetheless, the stock market has remained relatively stable in recent weeks, despite the downbeat profit picture. Late Monday, for example, Applied Micro Circuits Corp., which makes integrated circuits for computer networking gear, cautioned investors that its revenue in the current quarter could be as much as 45% below analysts' expectations. But on Tuesday, the San Diego-based company's shares managed to gain sharply. 

 Even the Fed's decision to scale back the pace of its rate cuts -- a disappointment to many analysts who had been predicting another half-point move  -- didn't jar markets. The Dow Jones Industrial Average finished the day down just 37.64 points at 10434.84, and the Nasdaq Composite Index rose 10.12 points to 2074.74. 

 Indeed, the Fed's decision to slow its pace of rate reductions suggests some officials inside the central bank feel the easing since January should go a long way toward sparking a recovery later this year and that going much further would risk stoking inflationary pressures. Some of those inflation "hawks" may have preferred no rate cut at all. But other Fed officials, including Chairman Alan Greenspan, have played down those risks. Some of these officials, emphasizing the economy's fragility, may have advocated a half-point cut. The quarter-point move and relatively terse statement struck many analysts as a compromise. 

 The consensus among major forecasters is that the economy, after growing at just a 1.3% annual rate in the first quarter and possibly even shrinking in the current quarter, will climb back to a 3% growth rate by the fourth quarter, according to Blue Chip Economic Indicators, a Kansas City-based research publication. And less than 10% of those forecasters surveyed think the U.S. is either in a recession or likely to enter one. 

 The odd split between the hopes reflected by the stock market and in economists' forecasts and the pessimism in the nation's corporate corridors isn't unusual at economic turning points. "It looks that way at bottoms and at tops," says Peter Hooper, Deutsche Bank's chief U.S. economist. "That's a reason to sit back and wonder, how quickly could things turn around here?" 

 Economists point out that interest-rate cuts usually take six to nine months to boost the economy, which means the rate cuts that began in January are only now about to be felt. Yesterday, commercial banks lowered the prime rate, to which many consumer and business loans are linked, to 6.75% from 7%. Moreover, a tax cut is on its way later this summer. Deutsche Bank estimates that could boost consumer spending by 1% over the next several quarters. Meanwhile, the spike in energy prices that took a toll on consumer spending this past fall and winter is rapidly unwinding; gasoline, natural gas and western wholesale electricity prices now all are below year-earlier levels. 

 It's easy to let high-profile bad news in some sectors such as technology obscure the fact that much of the economy remains healthy. Business spending may be in full retreat, but household spending has continued to grow, though more slowly. Sales of homes and autos -- the most interest-sensitive sectors -- remain healthy. And the Conference Board said Tuesday that consumer confidence, though still sharply below year-earlier levels, rose in June to its highest level this year. 

 Main Street, as well as Wall Street, seems to continue to have faith that Mr. Greenspan is pulling the economy back from the brink. A new Wall Street Journal/NBC News poll shows that the percentage of Americans who have a positive opinion of the Fed chairman has held steady at 55% this year, despite the stream of bad economic news. 

 But many corporate executives are finding it difficult to share that optimism. In the telecommunications-equipment industry, for instance, interest-rate cuts have done little to halt the carnage. "We're somewhat confounded by the magnitude of the downturn," David Rickey, chief executive officer of Applied Micro Circuits, told analysts Monday. "There's such an inventory overhang that it clouds any optimism . . . . We've seen cancellations slow, but it's because we have a lower backlog, and there's less to cancel." 

 Applied Micro Circuits, which employs 1,200 people, has promised to streamline its cost structure, saying it expects to record a restructuring charge for the current quarter. "Although I believe stabilization and beginning of a recovery in our revenue will occur yet this calendar year," Mr. Rickey said, "it is difficult to see tangible signs that allow me to call a bottom." 

 Over the course of the year, what many companies thought was a short-lived retrenchment in spending has turned into outright collapse. While capital-equipment orders did edge higher in May, economists dismissed the rise as barely significant after a steep drop in April. J.P. Morgan estimates that business spending on equipment and software fell at a 20% annual rate in the current quarter. 

 Nortel Networks Corp., which is based in Brampton, Ont., but has operations throughout the U.S., first warned of slowing sales growth earlier this year, then later expressed hope that the slowdown would be over by the end of 2001. But two weeks ago, when it disclosed that it would have a $19.2 billion loss in the second quarter, it conceded that the recovery mightn't come until the second half of next year. 

 "We're finding there are lots of opportunities, unfortunately, for our customers to meet the capacity needs of their networks without additional equipment purchases," Nortel CEO John Roth told analysts then. "How long this trend will continue is a topic of conjecture." 

 Back in January, Nortel announced plans to cut its world-wide work force of 94,500 by 4,000, or 4.2%, this year. In February, that estimate rose to 10,000, in March to 15,000, in April to 20,000 and by two weeks ago, the number was 30,000, or 32%. Nortel also plans to idle 8.8 million square feet of production space. 

 The impact of those types of cuts is now seeping into the broader national economy. Jobless claims are beginning to rise in California as the technology slump takes hold there. And Midwest states, such as Michigan, already have been hit hard by auto plant and other heavy industry shutdowns. 

 As corporate cutbacks ripple through the economy, they eventually reach consumers. After Alan White took a $125,000-a-year job last fall as marketing director for a division of Nortel Networks, his wife set her sights on buying an $18,000 silver Chrysler PT Cruiser. Even as the company went through a few waves of layoffs earlier this year, Mr. White, who works for Nortel from his Alabama home, was spared. 

 In May, however, Nortel shut down the high-speed Internet-equipment business Mr. White worked for, which it had purchased just a year earlier. Nortel's first, selective layoffs seemed like the kind of retrenchments Mr. White had seen before. But the cuts that claimed his job were different, he says. "There was some shock . . . at the concept they would just dump the entire business, without selling it off or severely downsizing it." Now his family's new-car plans are on hold. Lower interest rates? He says they will mean little to him "unless I decide to buy something, and I'm not going to buy something until I have permanent employment." 

 That's partly why Fed officials say they are worried about "weak expansion of consumption," and why spending isn't growing at the pace that many store chains had expected, forcing a new wave of retrenchment in the retailing sector. 

 Until last week, Gap, the clothing retailer, had been planning to increase the total store square footage in its stores by 15% a year in the next two years. Now, it has lowered that goal to 10%. That suggests that the company will open about 200 fewer stores than previously planned next year. At the same time, it has vowed to cut its headquarters staff of 10,000 by 5% to 7%. A spokesman calls the job cuts "an acceleration of cost-cutting initiatives we've been looking at from the start of the fiscal year." 

 Upscale retailer Neiman Marcus Group Inc. said earlier this month that soft sales were forcing it to take steeper markdowns to clear inventory. Chief Executive Burton Tansky blames "all the factors we've been dealing with since November: a softening economy, a stock market that has declined sharply," especially the Nasdaq Stock Market, as well as the weather. The Fed's interest-rate cuts might have been some help, but he says it's hard to tell. "Those cuts take some months before they take hold," he says. In the meantime, he adds, the chain is being conservative in its inventory ordering. And if sales do better and his stores run out of stock of a particular item? "We have plenty of other things we can sell," he says. 

 On their checklist of economic potholes, Fed officials yesterday noted "slowing growth abroad." Many businesses, too, are citing slowing foreign economies, especially in Europe, as reason for their renewed gloom. Chemical companies should be among the biggest beneficiaries of the big drop in energy prices. But they are seeing profit prospects darken because of weakening European markets and rising capacity, says Lehman Brothers analyst Sergey Vasnetsov. 

 In February, Houston-based Equistar Chemicals LP closed a plant at Lake Charles, La., in part because of high energy and raw-material prices, but kept enough staff on hand to bring it back into production in just a few weeks. Last week, the company said it was extending the shutdown until markets recover, terminating 50 contract workers and redeploying 100 employees elsewhere in the company. It will now take months, not weeks, to bring it back into production. 

 The Europeans, meanwhile, are blaming deteriorating economic conditions in the U.S. for further weakening their economies. European Central Bank Vice President Christian Noyer said yesterday that he is "quite confident" that the European economy will grow faster than that of the U.S., but he suggested that the ECB realizes it failed to gauge the potential effect of the U.S. slowdown on the euro zone. "What we probably underestimated was the impact of more big companies operating world-wide," Mr. Noyer told reporters in Stockholm. "No matter where they're based, a sudden weakening of the U.S. economy prompts them to cut investment elsewhere -- in Europe and in Asia." 

 Meanwhile, even sectors of the U.S. economy that so far have been sheltered from the downturn are starting to feel the damping effects of new corporate cutbacks. The commercial real-estate market may not be as overbuilt as it was a decade ago, but it is still facing a surge in supply as failing high-tech businesses bring sublet space back onto markets such as the San Francisco Bay area and northern Virginia. In recent months, that's prompted many developers to slow down existing developments or quietly abandon projects that they hadn't already started to build. 

 In February, Dallas-based commercial real-estate developer and manager Trammell Crow Co. broke ground on two 162,000-square-foot buildings along northern Virginia's tech-heavy Dulles corridor, with plans to open both by next May. Now, only one will open in May; the other has been delayed until August to give Trammell Crow more time to sign up tenants and allow it to save money by delaying deliveries of steel and glass. 

 Tom Finan, a principal at Trammell Crow, says bond and stock markets turned off the spigot to new projects at the end of 2000. Though a healthy 10.8 million square feet of property is under development now in northern Virginia, he says, "I see very few starts in the remainder of 2001, unless there's a compelling story." 

 --- 

 Rupini Bergstrom of Dow Jones Newswires in Stockholm contributed to this article. 

 --- 

 Journal Link: How do you assess the economic impact of Fed rate cuts so far? Participate in the Question of the Day, in the online Journal at WSJ.com/JournalLinks. 
   INi3302 : Computers/Electronics | i3303 : Networking | i34531 : Semiconductors | i472 : Converted Paper Products | i64 : Retail/Wholesale | i645 : Clothing Stores | i654 : Specialty Stores | i7902 : Telecommunications | i814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | i85 : Real Estate Transactions | ibnk : Banking/Credit | iclt : Clothing/Textiles | icre : Construction/Real Estate | ipap : Paper/Packaging   NSc15 : Performance | c151 : Earnings | c1514 : Earnings Surprises | c152 : Earnings Projections | c42 : Labor/Personnel Issues | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | credun : Lay-offs/Redundancies | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1101 : Economic Growth | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | e21 : Government Finance | e211 : Government Taxation/Revenue | e51 : Trade/External Payments | e512 : Physical Trade | ecat : Economic News | eec : European Union | gcat : Political/General News | gjob : Labor Issues | ncat : Content Types | npag : Page-One Story | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations   REcana : Canada | caon : Ontario | namz : North America | usa : United States | usc : Midwest U.S. | use : Northeast U.S. | uss : Southern U.S. | usw : Western U.S.   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument j000000020010711dx6s00cfl  



 HD UPDATE 2-Fed voted 9-1 to cut rates at May 15 meeting.    BY By Jonathan Nicholson    WC754 words   PD28 June 2001   ET23:47   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 Reuters Limited
   LP (Adds details, background, economist comment, paragraphs 4-7, 9 through end.) 

 WASHINGTON, June 28 (Reuters) - Some Federal Reserve policymakers were already uneasy in May at the aggressiveness of the U.S. central bank's interest-rate cutting campaign, but only one dissented from the decision to cut rates a half-point, minutes of the May 15 policy setting meeting said. 
   TD The minutes released on Thursday said members also discussed at the May meeting whether it might be appropriate to shift their assessment "before long" of the key risks faced by the economy to neutral from that of concern over excessive weakness. Nonetheless, the Fed this week held to its position that, for the moment, the greatest risk was weakness rather than a resurgence in inflation. 

 The release of the May minutes fanned market speculation that the end of the easing cycle was imminent. 

 The Fed, in a bid to keep the sluggish U.S. economy out of recession, has cut short-term interest rates six times since Jan. 3. The May meeting saw the FOMC's fifth aggressive half a percentage point rate cut of the year. The Fed ended its June meeting on Wednesday with a smaller quarter-point rate cut. 

 The debate at the May meeting centered over the pace of the Fed's rate-cutting campaign and the possibility that continued lower rates could eventually spark inflation when the economy regains its footing. 

 "Despite their somewhat differing preferences, all the members agreed that further easing was desirable in light of what they viewed as the continuing weakness in the economy, the absence of evidence that growth had stabilized or was about to rebound, and the still decidedly downside risks to the economic expansion," the minutes said. 

 LONE DISSENTER 

 Thomas Hoenig, the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City, was the lone vote against the half-point cut finally agreed upon by the FOMC in May, preferring instead a smaller quarter-point cut. 

 "Following the rapid and aggressive policy actions already taken, a more cautious policy move at this point would in his view appropriately limit the risks of producing an overly accommodative policy stance and rising inflation over time," the minutes said. 

 While Hoenig was the sole vote against the cut, the minutes noted that two other unidentified FOMC members "could have accepted (a) more limited easing move." 

 Similarly, the minutes said the panel members thought a neutral risk assessment could be appropriate even before "substantial evidence" the economy was back on track appeared and "some members noted that the end of the easing process might be near." 

 The dissent lent support to growing speculation that the Fed faces an internal debate over its policy path. While Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan has repeatedly said inflation is not a concern, suggesting he sees few difficulties with the aggressive policy the Fed has taken, other Fed officials, notably Fed governor Laurence Meyer, have warned about the risk of "overshooting" and easing too much. 

 STATEMENT ADDED TO SPECULATION 

 A tersely-worded statement issued by the FOMC after its meeting on Wednesday was also taken by some analysts as another indication of internal strife on the panel. 

 On-the-record dissents are relatively rare in the clubby world of the FOMC. There were no formal dissents in 2000, which saw the Fed continue a rate-raising campaign begun in 1999. The most recent dissent was lodged in August 1999, when Dallas Fed president Robert McTeer voted against a rate tightening meant to slow the economy down. 

 Analysts differed somewhat on the significance of Hoenig's dissent. 

 "The seeds for the more limited cut in June were really sown in May," said Sung Won Sohn, chief economist with Wells Fargo in Minneapolis. 

 But Paul Christopher, senior economist with A.G. Edwards & Sons in St. Louis, said, "What they're disagreeing over is not whether the economy needs stimulus, but how much." 

 In their May discussion of the economic outlook, members of the FOMC said it was unclear whether the recent slowing in the economy had bottomed out but they thought a rebound later in the year was still the most likely forecast. 

 The FOMC was also mindful of the booost to growth likely to come from the recently-enacted 10-year, $1.35 trillion tax cut, saying it would "undoubtedly join at some point in coming quarters with lagged effects" of the Fed's previous rate cuts. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   ANDocument lba0000020010912dx6s00lkp  



 HD Fed voted 9-1 to cut rates at May 15 meeting.    WC229 words   PD28 June 2001   ET20:15   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 Reuters Limited
   LP WASHINGTON, June 28 (Reuters) - Federal Reserve policymakers agreed on the need for an interest rate cut at their May 15 meeting, but lacked unanimity on the size of the reduction, according to minutes of the meeting released Thursday. 

 One member of the Fed's rate-setting Federal Open Market Committee wanted a quarter-percentage-point cut in short-term interest rates instead of the half-point reduction the committee eventually agreed upon in a nine-to-one vote. Thomas Hoenig, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City, was the lone dissenter. 
   TD "Following the rapid and aggressive policy actions already taken, a more cautious policy move at this point would in his view appropriately limit the risks of producing an overly accommodative policy stance and rising inflation over time," the minutes said. 

 However, all the FOMC members agreed on the necessity for a rate easing, a half-point one or otherwise, at the May meeting. They cited "continuing weakness in the economy, the absence of evidence that growth had stabilized or was about to rebound, and still decidedly downside risks to the economic expansion," the minutes said. 

 On Wednesday, the Fed followed with a quarter-point reduction - its sixth rate cut this year - bringing the fed funds rate down to 3.75 percent, the lowest since 1994. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States | usdc : Washington DC | uss : Southern U.S.   ANDocument lba0000020010912dx6s00jro  



 HD Fed adjusts rates dosage for ailing U.S. economy.    BY By Glenn Somerville    WC634 words   PD28 June 2001   ET23:41   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 Reuters Limited
   LP WASHINGTON, June 28 (Reuters) - The patient is still wobbly, but perhaps just needs time for the medicine to take effect - that's how analysts see the Federal Reserve's decision to scale back the size of U.S. interest rate cuts. 

 Signs are increasing that Fed policymakers began to feel this spring that the U.S. economy had enough stimulus coursing through its veins to rouse it out of a weak spell that set in in mid-2000. 
   TD This week's decision to cut interest rates by a quarter percentage point, after five aggressive half-percentage-point ones since the beginning of the year, is the hardest evidence so far that the U.S. central bank has concluded its treatment of the economy's ailments is about over. 

 "To me, the Fed's job is done," concludes economist Sung Won Sohn of Wells Fargo Bank in Minneapolis. The cumulative 2-3/4 percentage point cut in U.S. short-term interest rates, income-tax rate reductions and tax rebates will fire the U.S. economy up in the second half, Sohn says. WAIT-AND-HOPE TIME 

 The decision on Wednesday by the policysetting Federal Open Market Committee to scale back the size of its rate reductions was widely seen as a signal that the Fed felt it has done about all it should, and now was taking up a wait-and-hope vigil. 

 Not all analysts agree that the U.S. central bank has suspended treatments. 

 "I think it's just a shift in tactics," said economist Allen Sinai of Decision Economics Inc. in Boston. "The central bank has put a heavy dose of stimulative medicine into the economy fast. All they've done is cut down the dosage." 

 The U.S. economy has lost much of its vigor over the past year, with growth in the first three months this year slumping to a 1.3 percent annual rate. In some analysts' opinion, economic output may have contracted in the second quarter or barely edged ahead. 

 Sinai, who felt the U.S. economy was "flirting with recession," doubted the Fed can suspend treatment now. 

 "Between the fact of a downturn in domestic activity, a global downturn and the risks surrounding the consumer, the fact is that the economy continues to look sick," he said. 

 "The only place where you can say that we're truly seeing the effects of lower interest rates is in the housing industry, and that constitutes 3-3/4 percent of the economy," Sinai noted, leaving 96-1/4 percent of it faring poorly. FED WRINGING ITS HANDS 

 Still, minutes from the Fed's policysetting session on May 15 - the one before this week's Tuesday and Wednesday gathering - showed that at least some FOMC members felt they were at risk of giving the economy more interest-rate medicine than was in its best long-term interest. 

 Some felt that before long, it would be time the FOMC stopped saying in its statement that the greatest risk came from excessive weakness and said instead that risks were balanced between torpor and inflation. 

 "A neutral balance of risks statement could be appropriate before long, probably well before substantial evidence had emerged that economic growth had strengthened appreciably," the minutes said. 

 But that doesn't necessarily mean that there will be no more interest-rate cuts, whether or not they are of the smaller quarter-percentage-point variety. 

 "The likelihood the U.S. economy will bounce back up anytime soon is frankly very small," Sinai said, with the U.S. "flirting with recession and probably...in one now," Japan in recession again, European economies sliding and the United States' two largest trading partners - Canada and Mexico - growing only weakly. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | nanl : Analysis | ncat : Content Types   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   ANDocument lba0000020010912dx6s00fug  



 HDFed cuts rates in bid to head off recession.   BYBy PERONET DESPEIGNES AND STEPHEN FIDLER IN WASHINGTON.    WC519 words   PD28 June 2001   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPThe US Federal Reserve on Wednesday cut short-term interest rates by a quarter of a percentage point, extending its six-month campaign to head off the threat of recession to a US economy it has called 'unacceptably weak'.

The central bank's policymaking open market committee voted to cut its target for the federal funds rate from 4 per cent to 3.75 per cent, its lowest level since April 1994. It also cut by a 1/4 point its largely symbolic discount rate, to 3.25 per cent.
   TDHopes for a half-point cut had been weakened by recent positive economic data but it still extended what many consider to be the central bank's most aggressive easing of money and credit in 14 years.

The Fed has now reduced its interest rate target by 23/4 percentage points in six months to revive an economy it has called "unacceptably weak".

Explaining its latest move, the Fed said weakness in profits and investment, slowing growth overseas and emerging weakness in consumer spending were weighing on the economy.

It asserted, as it has all year, that long-term economic trends remained favourable. But for now, "the risks are weighted mainly toward conditions that may generate economic weakness in the foreseeable future", it said, affirming the possibility of more rate cuts.

But - unlike in recent statements - the Fed left out specific language that had signalled rate cuts between scheduled meetings in the past. The FOMC meets again on August 21.

Economists are hopeful that the Fed's campaign, which began in January, will eventually have a big impact after the typical six-to-eight month lag. There are also high hopes for added stimulus from recent federal income tax cuts.

But Fed officials have privately expressed concern that their work had been undermined by a strong dollar, which has hurt US exports, the recent upward drift in long-term interest rates and weak equity prices.

Some investment strategists contend weak corporate profits and profit forecasts - which continue to tumble, threatening, the US with another round of cuts in production, investment and employment - may overwhelm the Fed's efforts.

Some economists also fear heavy and rising debt levels among US consumers endanger the continued growth in consumer spending.

Another potential worry for the Fed remains the risk that its actions will fuel imbalances that undermine the economy's long-term health. Several top Fed officials - including Laurence Meyer and Robert McTeer - have wondered aloud about the possibility of an inflation surge. These concerns may have provoked dissent within the FOMC, possibly playing a role in its decision to reduce rates a quarter-, instead of a half-, point.

The Fed might have one less thing to worry about: Several market measures of inflation concerns have subsided. The Fed's internal measure of market inflation expectations - the gap between yields on Treasury bonds and inflation-indexed Treasury bonds - has dropped to its lowest level since early April after jumping to 12-month highs in May. 
   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument ftcom00020010911dx6s00183  



 HDFed cuts rate in bid to head off recession.   BYBy PERONET DESPEIGNES AND STEPHEN FIDLER IN WASHINGTON.    WC432 words   PD28 June 2001   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPThe US Federal Reserve on Wednesday cut short-term interest rates by a quarter of a percentage point in a move to head off the threat of recession.

The decision means the Fed has reduced its interest rate target by 23/4 percentage points in six months to jump-start an economy it has described as "unacceptably weak".
   TDSome expectations of a half-point cut had been undermined by recent positive economic data but Wednesday's action is still widely seen as the central bank's most aggressive easing of money and credit in 14 years.

The central bank's policy-making open market committee voted to cut its target for the federal funds rate from 4 per cent to 3.75 per cent, its lowest since April 1994. The Fed also cut by a quarter-point its largely symbolic discount rate to 3.25 per cent.

In a statement accompanying the move, the Fed said declining company profitability and capital spending, weak expansion of consumption, and slowing growth abroad continued to weigh on the economy. It pointed to continuing favourable trends helping long-term prospects for productivity growth and the economy. But, despite these, "the risks are weighted mainly toward conditions that may generate economic weakness in the foreseeable future".

The Fed also said easing pressures in the labour and product markets were expected to keep inflation contained.

But, unlike recent statements, the Fed left out language indicating readiness to make a further rate cut before the next scheduled meeting of the committee on August 21.

Economists are hopeful the Fed's latest rate-cut campaign, which began in January, will have a significant economic impact after a typical six to eight month lag. Many also have high hopes for added stimulus from recent federal income tax cuts.

A potential worry for the Fed remains the risk that its actions have fuelled - or will fuel - imbalances that undermine the economy's long-term health. Several top Fed officials - including Laurence Meyer and Robert McTeer-have wondered aloud about the possibility of an inflation surge. It is possible that these concerns led to dissent within the FOMC and played a role in its decision to cut rates by a quarter-point rather than the half-point widely expected.

Fed officials have privately expressed concern that their efforts have been undermined by a strong dollar, which has hurt US exports, the recent upward drift in long-term market interest rates and the weakness of equity prices. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument ftcom00020010715dx6s0082y  



 HDLex - US rate cut.   WC262 words   PD28 June 2001   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPThe US Federal Reserve has recalibrated. After five half-point interest rate cuts in five months, Wednesday's quarter-point move might disappoint some investors. But shifting to a quarter does not mean that the Fed's work is done: the statement maintains the bias towards cutting rates further.

With growth grinding to a halt, another cut was justified - despite the loosening already in the pipeline and the prospect of fiscal stimulus to come. The statement reiterates that product and labour market weakness will keep a lid on inflation. Shifting to a quarter point, however, makes sense.
   TDThe economic picture is little changed from the Fed's last meeting. Industrial output continues to decline. Capital spending has collapsed, following past excesses. The international slowdown threatens to add a second leg to the inventory correction. In contrast, consumer spending remains relatively robust. The big risk, as before, is that rising unemployment will finally dent the optimism of the US consumer, turning a nasty slowdown into a slump.

But bond bears were already worrying that the Fed had overdone it. The rise in 30-year yields has offset some of the impact of the Fed's easing at the short-end. The bursting of the technology bubble, meanwhile, means that equities have not enjoyed the immediate boost from liquidity that past experience suggested. The dollar's strength does manufacturers no favours. This year's decline in profits has been discounted. But next year's earnings forecasts remain optimistic, even with the Fed continuing its fight to engineer the economic rebound. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument ftcom00020010715dx6s00829  



 HD TEXT-FOMC statement following June 26-27 meeting.    WC247 words   PD27 June 2001   ET02:00   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 Reuters Limited
   LP WASHINGTON, June 27 (Reuters) - The following is the full text of the 

 Federal Open Market Committee's statement on interest rate policy issued on 
   TD Wednesday following a two-day meeting: 

 "The Federal Open Market Committee at its meeting today decided to lower 

 its target for the federal funds rate by 25 basis points to 3-3/4 

 percent. In a related action, the Board of Governors approved a 25 basis 

 point reduction in the discount rate to 3-1/4 percent. Today's action by 

 the FOMC brings the decline in the target federal funds rate since the 

 beginning of the year to 275 basis points. 

 The patterns evident in recent months-declining profitability and 

 business capital spending, weak expansion of consumption, and slowing 

 growth abroad-continue to weigh on the economy. The associated easing of 

 pressures on labor and product markets are expected to keep inflation 

 contained. 

 Although continuing favorable trends bolster long-term prospects for 

 productivity growth and the economy, the Committee continues to believe 

 that against the background of its long-run goals of price stability and 

 sustainable economic growth and of the information currently available, 

 the risks are weighted mainly toward conditions that may generate 

 economic weakness in the foreseeable future. 

 In taking the discount rate action, the Federal Reserve Board approved 

 requests submitted by the Boards of Directors of the Federal Reserve

 Banks of Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Atlanta, Chicago, Dallas and San 

 Francisco." 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States | usdc : Washington DC   ANDocument lba0000020010712dx6r00onu  



 HD US agencies hold ground after Fed rate cut.    BY By Lynn Adler    WC486 words   PD27 June 2001   ET02:00   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 Reuters Limited
   LP NEW YORK, June 27 (Reuters) - Most U.S. agency debt stood 

 unwavering in the face of a quarter-percentage point interest 
   TD rate cut by the Federal Reserve, with many players predicting 

 the range-bound market will hold its ground or possibly lose 

 some of its gains as the Fed's easing cycle nears an end. 

 This sixth cut of the year, bringing the key short-term 

 federal funds rate to its lowest level in more than seven 

 years, was the smallest rate reduction of the cycle. Economists 

 don't expect much more. 

 Agency securities, which tend to benefit from demand for 

 higher-yielding high-grade debt when Treasury yields slide in 

 an easing environment, may not have much more room to run 

 higher. 

 J.P. Morgan, for example, expects agencies to stabilize or 

 erode compared with Treasuries. 

 "Buying would be far more in higher coupon mortgages and in 

 corporates, given that we're near the end of the cycle," said 

 Ron Juster, head of the agency desk at J.P. Morgan. "That's 

 where you'll get the most bounceback." 

 In secondary agencies trading Wednesday, the yield spread 

 on Fannie Mae two-year notes of May 2003 narrowed slightly to 

 28.5-27.5 basis points from 29-28 basis points late Tuesday. 

 That spread was sharply below the 50 basis-point area seen at 

 the year's start, before the Fed embarked on its aggressive 

 easing to jumpstart the economy. 

 At the longer end, Freddie Mac 10-year notes due June 2011 

 were unchanged at 77-76.5 basis points. When the year kicked 

 off, comparable notes were quoted at a spread of around 83 

 basis points. 

 "We expect to see some selling at the short end of the 

 curve," which has steadily outperformed longer maturities as 

 the Fed sliced rates, said Juster. "An awful lot of accounts 

 had put steepening-type trades on and we're looking for some of 

 that to be unwound." 

 The latest Fed cut brought the federal funds rate down to 

 3.75 percent. A majority of Wall Street analysts had predicted 

 a quarter-point rate cut, although a growing number in recent 

 days had changed their calls to a half-point. 

 In its statement, the central bank said it still sees 

 excessive weakness, rather than inflation, as the main threat 

 to the economy, indicating it stood ready to cut rates again 

 should the economy deteriorate further. 

 Several traders said they looked for one more quarter-point 

interest rate reduction. 

 Treasuries were mixed, with the short end eroding on 

 expectations the easing cycle was near while the long end 

 jumped as inflation concerns ebbed. Two-year notes lost 5/32 to 

 yield 4.10 percent while 10-year notes were flat to yield 5.23 

 percent and 30-year bonds jumped 5/8 point to yield 5.61 

 percent. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   ANDocument lba0000020010712dx6r00okz  



 HD Expected U.S. Rate Cut Fails To Cheer Asian Investors --- Fed Action Isn't Necessarily Considered a Good Sign Anymore --- Major Exchanges in Region Fall    BY By Karen Richardson    CRStaff Reporter   WC878 words   PD27 June 2001   SNThe Asian Wall Street Journal   SCAWSJ   PG1   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 2001, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP HONG KONG -- Asian stock investors may be seeing some light at the end of the tunnel, but after five U.S. Federal Reserve rate cuts this year, they appear to realize the tunnel isn't getting shorter anytime soon. 

 As the Federal Reserve was set to go into a two-day meeting expected to result in the sixth reduction in U.S. interest rates this year, Asian investors had changed their behavior: Now, an expected cut is not necessarily good news that will spur demand and reduce funding costs, but possibly confirmation that the world economy is set to recover a lot more slowly than previously thought. 
   TD It's taken five rate cuts totaling 2.5 percentage points for Asian investors to reach this level of sobriety. Major Asian stock markets sank on Tuesday or languished, little changed in thin trading, as Big Picture worries about the global economy damped much of the region's stock-trading spirit. 

 "Psychologically the market has changed," said John Schofield, Asian-Pacific technical analyst for Prudential Bache Securities (Hong Kong). "People recognize it's going to be a long, hard slog. A few rate cuts and a bit of liquidity from the Fed is not going to turn the whole thing around." 

 Hong Kong's Hang Seng index slumped 1.6% to 12961.97 points while the Taiwan weighted price index fell 2.4% to a six-month low of 4785.12 points, led down by weak overseas demand for electronics stocks and lackluster buying interest in Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co., the world's largest microchip foundry. Korea's Kospi shed 1.6% to end at 588.71 points. 

 Tokyo's Nikkei 225 Index edged up 0.6%, while Singapore, Australia, New Zealand, Thailand, Malaysia, Indonesia and the Philippines ended only marginally higher. 

 Like many of their global counterparts, Asian stock markets have been creeping up with every short-lived buying opportunity and lurching down with each corporate profit warning and bearish macroeconomic data point. For the past year, an expected U.S. rate cut was just another reason to buy on a dip  --  or in Asia's case, a deep trough. This time, it's different. 

 Unlike previous rate cuts earlier this year, the reduction expected in the early hours of Thursday, Asia time, would come after a rash of earnings downgrades or warnings from U.S. companies across a range of sectors. If the Fed cuts rates by half a percentage point instead of a quarter point, that could signal to some investors that the U.S. economy is even weaker than some relatively bullish economists had hoped. 

 Asia's economies, most of which rely heavily on feeding the American consumer's insatiable appetite for imports, are unlikely to recover anytime soon from the past year's stock-market turmoil that set the Nasdaq tumbling, and which continues to give grief to the Dow Jones industrials. 

 Economists have long been predicting a lag of nine to 12 months between the first round of interest-rate cuts and their economic impact, putting the U.S. and the rest of the rate-cutting world about half-way to seeing any positive change. For many in Asia, that fact is just sinking in. 

 "At this point, a lot of the positioning has already taken place in Asia, as it has in the United States," said Tim Condon, regional economist at ING Barings Asia. "I expect (the rate cut) to be fairly uneventful for ex-Japan Asia if it's a 25 or 50 basis point cut." (A basis point is a hundredth of a percentage point.) Mr. Condon, like many economists, expects central banks in Hong Kong, China and Korea to cut rates following the Fed. 

 "We've reached a point where people know the U.S. market is going to recover. The question now is when," said Chris Tinker, regional strategist at Deutsche Securities Asia. 

 Consumer cyclicals, Asian airlines, chemicals, petrochemicals and base resources will be the first to take advantage of a turnaround, Mr. Tinker said, adding that Australia's natural resource-heavy market and Korea's export-oriented DRAM (dynamic random access memory) sector would likely strengthen. Investors would likely give telecommunications-equipment stocks a relatively wide berth. 

 But predictions such as Mr. Tinker's that Asian markets will ride out of the doldrums on an export-led recovery, while becoming more numerous, are still not agreed on how long this will take. 

 Ajay Kapur, chief equity analyst for the Asian-Pacific region at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, says it is "only a matter of time" before liquidity flows back into Asia ex-Japan, one of the better-performing asset classes year-to-date compared with European, U.S. and several other emerging markets. 

 "Asia's a very cyclical market," he said. "It's at a huge valuation discount that's unjustified and it normally does very well when the global economy is slow but beginning to pick up." 

 --- 

 Journal Link: See coverage of the U.S. Federal Reserve's policy meeting in the online Journal at WSJ.com/JournalLinks. 
   COpruins : Prudential Financial Inc   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | i82 : Insurance | i82002 : Life Insurance | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | npag : Page-One Story   REasiaz : Asia | china : China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America | seasiaz : Southeast Asia | usa : United States   ANDocument awsj000020010710dx6r008mb  



 HD Fed hawks foreshadowed shift to smaller US rate cut.    BY By Caren Bohan    WC847 words   PD28 June 2001   ET00:56   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 Reuters Limited
   LP WASHINGTON, June 27 (Reuters) - Given blunt warnings from Federal Reserve officials about the risk of over-stimulating the U.S. economy, investors should not have been surprised by the decision to shift to a slower pace of interest-rate cuts. 

 But many players on Wall Street were nonetheless braced for a half-percentage point rate cut on Wednesday in keeping with the activist easing campaign the central bank kicked off in January. 
   TD In the end, they got only a quarter-point decrease. 

 Analysts said the decision likely suggests that inflation "hawks" such as Fed Governor Laurence Meyer and Richmond Fed chief Alfred Broaddus successfully pressed the case that prices could rear up if the central bank moved too far. 

 "I suspect there were some divisions to be worked through to reach this decision," said Bruce Steinberg, chief economist at Merrill Lynch in New York. "Market opinion was fairly evenly divided. I had hoped for 50 basis points (a half-point)." 

 "It's safe to assume the hawks were pretty assertive at this meeting," said Kurt Karl at Swiss Re. 

 While Wednesday's reduction in the federal funds overnight lending rate to 3.75 percent from 4 percent came as a surprise to some analysts, it was by no means a shocker. 

 That is evident in the fact that Wall Street stocks ended mixed, with the Nasdaq Composite Index eking out a slight gain and the Dow Jones industrial average drifting a bit lower. 

 In a Reuters poll of some of the biggest Wall Street firms taken before the meeting, a narrow majority, 14 of 25, had correctly predicted the quarter-point action. 

 Among the 11 who were in the 50 basis-point camp, many had described the decision as an extremely close call that could easily go either way. Many betting on a quarter-point also thought the decision could go either way. 

 THE CASE FOR CALIBRATION 

 Foreshadowing a more modest pace of easing, Broaddus of the Richmond Fed said on June 18 that the Fed did not "have a lot of leeway to reduce" rates further before reaching a level that could cause "difficulties." 

 Broaddus is not a voting member of the policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee this year. However, he participates in the rate discussion and his views are thought to be fairly closely in sync with some other regional presidents such as Saint Louis Fed chief William Poole. 

 In an equally straightforward manner, Fed Governor Meyer said on June 6 that the Fed, as it works to avoid a recession, needed to be careful that it does not "create conditions that would lead to higher inflation." 

 Meyer, in a May 24 speech that highlighted a similar theme, discussed the need to consider "calibrating" rate cuts. 

 Analysts said that one reason officials such as Meyer and Broaddus have been concerned is that the rate reduction spree to date has been among the most aggressive in history. 

 Even though there are few signs that the economy is picking up now, it could well gain momentum later in the year as the effects of lower rates are thought to take a minimum of six to nine months to have an impact on the economy. 

 Adding further stimulus to the economy is the recently enacted tax package, which calls for rebate checks of up to $600 to be sent to households later this year. 

 "The Fed has already moved to a position that actively boosts the economy," said Gregory Miller, chief economist at SunTrust Bank in Atlanta, Ga. If it does too much it could fire up inflation, which would cause problems for the economy down the road, he said. 

 GREENSPAN ON THE FENCE? 

 Unlike Meyer and Broaddus, Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan did not tip his hand about his policy views. 

 However, because Greenspan has made a point of playing down inflation worries, many economists thought might have gone into Wednesday's Fed meeting leaning toward a 50-basis-point cut. 

 On the other hand, Steinberg pointed out, "If he felt very strongly about it, they might have gone by 50 (basis points)." 

 Greenspan is known for seeking consensus among the members of the policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee, which currently consists of 10 members instead of the usual 12 because of vacancies in Fed posts. 

 Dissents are rare on interest-rate decisions and most often have consisted of only one member. 

 The Fed on Wednesday did not release a tally of the FOMC votes. It will not do so until late August, at which time it will also disclose some broad themes of the rate discussion. 

 Lyle Gramley said that equally important in Wednesday's decision as the arguments of officials such as Meyer for "calibrating" the rate cuts was a spate of recent data on consumer confidence, durable goods and home sales that offered a glimmer of hope about the weak economy. 

 But Gramley added: "The Fed has left the door wide open to do more (rate cuts) if they need to." 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | nanl : Analysis | ncat : Content Types   REnamz : North America | usa : United States | usdc : Washington DC   ANDocument lba0000020010712dx6r00t0j  



 HD POLL-Fed almost done cutting rates-Wall St. dealers.    BY By Marjorie Olster    WC558 words   PD28 June 2001   ET00:12   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 Reuters Limited
   LP NEW YORK, June 27 (Reuters) - The Federal Reserve's aggressive campaign of interest rate cuts to ward off a U.S. recession is nearing its end, leading Wall Street dealers predicted in a new Reuters poll on Wednesday. 

 Seventeen of the 25 primary dealers of U.S. government securities concluded the Fed will make only one more quarter-point reduction in the benchmark federal funds rate this year when central bankers next meet in August. 
   TD The poll was conducted after the policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) lowered the funds rate on overnight bank lending from 4.0 percent to 3.75 percent, its sixth but smallest cut so far this year. The cuts have brought the fund rate down by a total of 2.75 percentage points. 

 All but two of the 25 firms who deal directly with the Fed in money market operations predicted another quarter percentage point cut in the funds rate at the next FOMC meeting on Aug. 21. Two said there would be no move. 

 Though the Fed signaled on Wednesday that it may still need to lower rates further, it slowed its aggressive pace of rate cutting seen from January to May. Those five months saw the Fed quickly slash the funds rate in five half-point moves. 

 "The important point is they are close to the end of this," said Richard Berner, chief economist at Morgan Stanley. 

 U.S. growth slowed dramatically in the second half of last year and the Fed sprang into action in early January to try to keep the economy from slipping into a recession. 

 So far, the Fed, the White House and most on Wall Street are betting the country will narrowly skirt a recession. The dealers polled saw a 35 percent chance of recession this year, down from 39 percent in a May poll. 

 But economists who closely track business cycles said this week that they see many of the telltale signs of past recessions in an eight-month decline in industrial production and a two-month decline in payroll employment. 

 The nation's arbiter of recessions, the National Bureau of Economic Research, said last week it was possible a recession began recently, its first such warning in this downturn. 

 But optimists say consumer spending and confidence and the housing market have been resilient enough to offset the manufacturing slump and mounting job losses. The great hope is that the Fed's aggressive action will make for a relatively short-lived downturn. 

 The FOMC statement mentioned prominently that Fed rate cuts so far this year have totaled 2.75 percentage points, or 275 basis points. Wall Street economists saw this as an allusion to the idea that there is already a good deal of economic stimulus in the pipeline which may not have yet had its full impact. 

 Fed officials also expect consumer spending to benefit in the second half from tax refunds in the next few months, part of a package of tax cuts passed recently by the U.S. Congress. 

 "They do not mention tax cuts, but you have to suspect that was also on their mind. They emphasized that they have eased a total of 275 basis points this year," said Michael Moran, chief economist at Daiwa Securities International. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nsur : Survey/Poll   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   ANDocument lba0000020010712dx6r00szu  



 HD Emerging market investors prefer growth to rate cuts.    BY By Genevieve Wilkinson    WC737 words   PD28 June 2001   ET00:10   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 Reuters Limited
   LP NEW YORK, June 27 (Reuters) - While emerging market investors say that six U.S. interest rate cuts in 2001 have been the key factor supporting the risky asset class, the resumption of growth in the world's biggest economy is a far better scenario, even if this means rate hikes further down the road. 

 To be sure the sleepy U.S. economy is not expected to wake up until later this year or even in early 2002. The Federal Reserve on Wednesday cut interest rates in its six-month-long quest to prevent the economic powerhouse from falling into the jaws of a recession. 
   TD The central bank cut the fed funds overnight bank lending rate by 25 basis points to 3.75 percent, and signaled it stood ready to cut rates further if needed. 

 "I am strongly convinced that stronger growth even with higher interest rates is more favorable," said Amer Bisat, portfolio manager at Morgan Stanley Asset Management. 

 "A growing global economy means emerging market nations can export more; a growing world means risk appetite is improving which means increased capital inflows. That would more than offset the higher cost of capital from higher interest rates." 

 Yet by choosing to slow the pace of easing with a quarter percentage point cut instead of a half percentage point cut, some say with respect to emerging markets, the Fed might come to regret having moved so tentatively. 

 Emerging debt markets have returned 7.35 percent in 2001 with the cumulative help of 275 basis points of interest rate cuts by the Fed, robust oil prices and the injection of billions of dollars in bailouts from multilateral agencies. 

 "So as the Fed slows its rate cuts and growth isn't recovering as a counter to that, oil is slipping and we have no more bailouts, the emerging market asset class is at risk," said Mike Conelius, emerging market portfolio manager at T. Rowe Price. 

 NYMEX crude oil on Wednesday plummeted to 14-month lows, settling at $25.61 a barrel, down about seven percent from Jan. 1. Healthy oil prices this year have put oil-exporting nations like Ecuador and Venezuela on investors' grocery list. 

 GROWTH BETTER THAN FALLING RATES 

 Morgan Stanley recently polled 44 emerging market investors and found 36 percent of respondents said Fed and global interest rate cuts were the key elements supporting the asset class in 2001. 

 Yet 86 percent of those surveyed said U.S. growth and rising interest rates are better for the asset class than further economic weakness and declining interest rates. 

 While falling interest rates in the United States tend to bring down borrowing costs of emerging market nations, reduced demand from a sluggish U.S. economy - especially when the U.S. manufacturing sector is in recession - pressures Latin American exports. 

 The United States is the leading export market for both Brazil, at nearly 23 percent of its total exports, and Mexico, at about 90 percent. 

 Moreover, a strengthening global economy means increased demand for commodity prices - something Peru, a gold producer, and Argentina, a soybean producer - could well appreciate. 

 The Bridge/Commodity Research Bureau Index, a basket of prices of 17 commodities, closed at 203.92 on Wednesday - down 13 percent from highs set last year in October. 

 Some investors are even making the argument that the power rate cuts once possessed to boost the value of emerging market bonds has waned. 

 On Jan. 3 when the Fed surprised markets with an inter-meeting move - its first of the new year - the J.P. Morgan Emerging Markets Bond Index Plus narrowed 35 basis points. After the Fed's 25 basis point cut on Wednesday, the EMBI-plus widened 3 basis points to 742 basis points over U.S. Treasuries. 

 "Lower rates are only having a marginal impact in support of emerging markets at this point," said Howard Booth, portfolio manager at HSBC Asset Management. 

 Morgan Stanley Asset Management's Bisat said the best case scenario could come when the U.S. economy begins its recovery while interest rates remain at their current low levels. 

 "In the early phases of a recovery there is no reason not to expect rates to remain low for at least a while," Bisat said. "But there is still a huge question mark about the global recovery. I wish we could say that is true." 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   ANDocument lba0000020010712dx6r00szs  



 HD Love handles, interest rates go under the knife.    BY By Richard Leong    WC738 words   PD27 June 2001   ET22:32   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 Reuters Limited
   LP NEW YORK, June 27 (Reuters) - Demand for a surgically sculpted body among Wall Street's young, high-flying executives took a nose-dive this year along with economic growth, despite a drop in short-term U.S. interest rates. 

 "We've seen a notable difference. Plastic surgery is a luxury item," New York cosmetic surgeon Dr. Bruce Nadler said. 
   TD In these leaner economic times, borrowing may the only way for some to afford plastic surgery. A two-hour procedure at Dr. Nadler's to rid of unsightly bulges could set one back $7,000. 

 Wall Street spending sprees on fancy items such as luxury cars and vanity services like plastic surgery were commonplace during the go-go Internet boom of the late 1990s. While consumers overall have tempered their spendthrift ways of the recent past, some have continued to indulge by taking out expensive loans. 

 Wednesday's quarter-point interest rate cut by the Federal Reserve is aimed at stimulating consumer spending on basic goods such as clothes, homes and cars - building blocks to the economy. The country's top economic surgeon, Fed chief Alan Greenspan, has been trying give the sagging economy a lift with six rate cuts, the most ever in a six-month span. 

 While lower interest rates will make it a bit less costly to borrow for plastic surgery, it is unclear whether they will entice many of the crowd on Wall Street, where the effects of a weaker economy are being felt keenly, to go for some quick nips-and-tucks. 

 Interest rates on loans for cosmetic procedures range from a relatively tame 10 percent to an eye-popping 27 percent, down slightly from a year ago, according to Nadler. 

 "Certainly, more and more people are financing now," Nadler said. "With my practice, a lot depends on the patient's credit history." 

 Since not all the clients who come to Dr. Nadler have six-figure Wall Street salaries and almost no insurance plans cover the costs of plastic surgery, many have taken out loans in pursuit of bodies to match the curves of pop diva Jennifer Lopez and the abs of Hollywood hunk Brad Pitt. 

 While some shudder at exorbitant borrowing costs for plastic surgery, it seems perfectly in line with Americans' spend-now-pay-later binge that began in the 1990s. 

 The average American household is saddled with the highest level of debt since the mid-1980s. As of the last quarter of 2000, an estimated 14.29 percent of disposable household income was used to pay off mortgage and consumer debt, according to the Federal Reserve Board. 

 Interest rates on loans for elective medical procedures such as plastic surgery have budged little, though short-term interest rates are 2.75 percentage points lower since January. 

 Perhaps the rate cuts have soothed Americans' jitters over job and stock losses, as they have not scaled back their purchases of big-ticket items like homes and cars. 

 "Consumers are saying 'It's not that big of a deal,'" said economist Ken Goldstein at the Conference Board, a New York-based economic research group. 

 GETTING RID OF PROBLEM SPOTS 

 Greenspan and the Fed have been using an aggressive rate treatment to battle nagging problem spots in the economy. 

 So far, the results have been mixed. Wall Street and manufacturers have been treading water, while consumers, who account for two-third of the country's economic activity, have kept splurging. 

 But not on everything. "They're not spending crazily," the Conference Board's Goldstein noted. 

 Dr. Nadler, a bodybuilder who calls himself the "Liposuctionator" on the Web, estimated that his New York-based practice has seen a 75 percent drop in business from a year ago from the Big Apple's fast-track, 20-something MBAs. 

 That group was particularly fond of "impulse" liposuctions to get rid of the love handles which they have difficulty making disappear through exercise, Dr. Nadler recalled. "Now they have to work out harder," he said. 

 While the Wall Street segment of his practice has slowed, Dr. Nadler has been plenty busy with other types of clients here and abroad, including bodybuilders and adult entertainers whose appearance is their meal ticket. 

 Some 1.3 million people went under the plastic surgery knife in 2000, more than three times the level in 1992, according to the American Society of Plastic Surgeons. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   ANDocument lba0000020010712dx6r00sxp  



 HD UPDATE 7-INSTANT VIEW-FX/Debt View-Fed cuts rates 25 bps.    WC1,527 words   PD27 June 2001   ET20:45   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 Reuters Limited
   LP NEW YORK, June 27 (Reuters) - Following are comments from economists and financial market experts after the U.S. Federal Reserve cut short-term interest rates by quarter percentage point to 3.75 percent in a bid to revive a stalled economy. 

 Primary dealers surveyed by Reuters were divided over how deeply the Fed would cut rates, with 14 out of the 25 bond dealer firms that work directly with the Fed in the open market expecting a 25 bp rate cut and 11 looking for a 50 bp cut. 
   TD CHRISTOPHER LOW, CHIEF ECONOMIST, FIRST TENNESSEE CAPITAL MARKETS, NEW YORK: 

 "They are doing the best they can to stimulate the business sector by bringing longer rates down. This will put inflation fear to rest." 

 CAREY LEAHEY, SENIOR U.S. ECONOMIST, DEUTSCHE BANK SECURITIES, NEW YORK: 

 "This means the market will have to wait until August for another rate cut. Right now the front end of the Treasury market is not taking it too badly. The long end is doing better because the Fed rate cut looks more measured. We expect Fed funds to be at 3.5 percent at yearend." 

 RICHARD GILHOOLY, BOND MARKET STRATEGIST, BNP PARIBAS, NEW YORK: 

 "Certainly they're slowing down the pace at which they're easing, and the long end (of the Treasury market) likes it. There's a pretty strong reference to inflation being kept in check. But there's nothing interesting in the statement. There's none of the monitoring language, which suggests that there's obviously no inter-meeting concern." 

 JOSH STILES, SENIOR BOND STRATEGIST, IDEAGLOBAL.COM, NEW YORK: 

 "It's interesting that they slowed the pace down. That tells you the Fed is growing confident that a rebound will be coming toward the end of the year, and that they have to start worrying about overdoing it. 

 "This is more of a yield-curve flattening trade here. The stock market probably stands to suffer more on this. I would imagine a lot of people bought two-year notes at the auction, hoping for a half-point cut, so there may be some queasiness there. 

 "Corporate bonds would have preferred 50, but as we go into this quarter end and people take profits because the bonds have outperformed, they're still a buying opportunity on a spread basis. There is plenty of stimulus from the economy for investment-grade corporate bonds." 

 PAUL CHRISTOPHER, ECONOMIST, A.G. EDWARDS & SONS INC., ST. LOUIS, MO.: 

 "This was exactly what we expected. What may be more important is that the Fed sees further weakness. Some people in the markets were expecting a quarter point cut plus a statement that things were getting better. However, there is no clear uptrend in the economy yet. 

 "We do have increasingly consistent readings from forward looking indicators that the outlook is improving, but the current economy is still weak. So why did the Fed not cut by 50 basis points? Because the outlook is improving and we already have other stimulus in the economy, including tax rebates and lower gasoline prices. 

 "Whenever interest rates change, there is always some short-term effect as currency speculators reposition themselves, but the longer term picture for the dollar depends on growth rate differentials and inflation differences. At least in terms of growth and productivity, the outlook for the U.S. is better than the European common currency zone." 

 DANA JOHNSON, SENIOR MANAGING DIRECTOR, HEAD OF RESEARCH, BANC ONE CAPITAL MARKETS, CHICAGO: 

 "Greenspan has basically fulfilled what he telegraphed at the New York Economics Club dinner that they're going to slow down the easing process, but that they are not ready to stop the process because they haven't seen better economic data. So they are leaving the door very much open to further easing, which depends on the numbers. And here at Banc One we think that the economic numbers will cause them to ease again in August by another 25 basis points." 

 OSCAR GONZALEZ, ECONOMIST, JOHN HANCOCK FINANCIAL SERVICES, BOSTON: 

 "From their statement, it sounds like the Fed is open to further easing. Another 25 basis points this year would not be unreasonable. After that, you get into dangerous territory with respect to inflation, because liquidity has been increasing quickly this year. 

 "This cut should lead to falling prices in the long end as the demand for capital rises." 

 DAVID ORR, CHIEF CAPITAL MARKETS ECONOMIST, FIRST UNION CORP., CHARLOTTE, NC: 

 "The language to me smacks of compromise. It does not have anywhere near the full explanation that the other recent statements have had. It has no language to explain why 25 instead of 50. I interpret that as a compromise. It means they're still open for further cuts." 

 PAUL KASRIEL, CHIEF DOMESTIC ECONOMIST, NORTHERN TRUST CO., CHICAGO: 

 "Reading the statement, I don't know why he didn't do 50. They have put a lot of monetary stimulus in the system. I measure it by money, not interest rate cuts. They understand there are lags. Rightly or wrongly, they think the tax cut is going to have a stimulative effect on demand. Some of the data we've seen this week is suggestive of a bottoming out in economic activity. Leading indicators have been up two months in a row now. I think there probably are people who, while may be they aren't all that concerned about inflation in the next few months, feel that the seeds of higher inflation are being sown now. It was interesting that they mentioned weak expansion of consumption whereas last time they said consumption and housing had held up. They think consumption is weaker, yet they only cut 25." 

 DAVID RESLER, CHIEF U.S. ECONOMIST, NOMURA SECURITIES INTERNATIONAL, NEW YORK: 

 "They didn't have much to say did they? Frankly, I think it's quite constructive. They really were a bit more succinct this time around and it's clear they're still concerned about the economy's growth going forward. 

 "I don't think this gives us any hint one way or another about what the next step will be. I think the next step will be another easing move. 

 "They're moving a lot closer to what they indicated a year and a half ago when they adopted this policy of using very precise language describing the risks." 

 ALAN RUSKIN, RESEARCH DIRECTOR, 4CAST LTD, NEW YORK: 

 "They are a little more tight-lipped than usual. I was expecting 25 basis points, but also for them to be more explicit as to the possibility of an inter-meeting move. There are no hints as such. 

 "They are a little more circumspect in the way they have worded the prospects for productivity growth. It sounds like some slippage in confidence on the longer-term issue. Other than that, they mention the relevant facts in somewhat more curt form as to what is driving their easing: profitability, business and capital spending, consumption and slowing growth abroad. Effectively you have investment, consumption and exports, thank you very much. 

 "They realize that having cut rates so aggressively so far, they couldn't really cut another 250 bps within the next five months and keep up the same pace. It was just a matter of when they were going to slow down. I think they realize that real rates are pretty low at this juncture and there might be some desire to see that filter through. They also recognize that they have fewer bullets left and they have to use them more sparingly." 

 ANDY BRENNER, SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT OF GLOBAL FIXED-INCOME, FIMAT, NEW YORK: 

 "I think the Fed is coming to the determination the easing cycle is going to end and the economy should turn around. The numbers the Fed saw yesterday, with durable goods and consumer confidence, showed strength. You just can't keep easing 50 basis points. What no one seems to be talking about is that wholesale gas prices have come down. That's a big stimulus, and the Fed realizes that." 

 MICHAEL MORAN, CHIEF ECONOMIST, DAIWA SECURITIES AMERICA, NEW YORK: 

 "It's not a shocking move by the Fed. I suspect they were influenced by the numbers we saw just this week, especially the consumer confidence number but also housing. 

 "They do not mention tax cuts, but you have to suspect that was also on their mind. They emphasized that they have eased a total of 275 basis points this year. 

 "Surprisingly, the brief statement was in some respects more negative than the one they put out when they cut rates in May... What this means going ahead is that they have not closed any doors to further accommodation. But at the same time, I did not see anything in here that promises further action. 

 "I would tend to think they would err on the side of being accommodative, but that does not necessarily assure that they will do more in the future. 

 "I would look for a 25 basis point change in August but we really need to see what will happen with the economic numbers." 
   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSc15 : Performance | c152 : Earnings Projections | c1521 : Analyst Comment/Recommendation | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   ANDocument lba0000020010712dx6r00stu  



 HDFed cuts rates by 25 basis points to 3.75%.   BYBy PERONET DESPEIGNES IN WASHINGTON.    WC341 words   PD27 June 2001   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPThe Federal Reserve on Wednesday decided to shore itself up a notch further against the risk of a US recession by reducing short-term interest rates by a quarter of a percentage point.

The central bank's policy-making Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) voted to cut its target for the fed funds rate from 4 per cent to 3.75 per cent, its lowest level since April 1994.
   TDExpectations of a half-point cut had been strong until earlier this week when a raft of positive figures, including consumer confidence and housing demand data, interrupted what had been a steady stream of bleak news.

The Fed has now reduced its fed funds rate target six times in as many months by a total of 275 basis points in an effort to jump-start an economy it has described publicly as "unacceptably weak". To many, it marks the central bank's most aggressive easing of money and credit in at least 14 years.

Economists are generally hopeful the Fed's recent interest rate moves will start to have an impact after a six to eight month lag. Many also have high hopes that recently announced federal income tax cuts will act as an added stimulus.

But Fed officials privately express concern that a strong dollar, the recent upward drift in long-term market interest rates and the weakness of equity prices are working against their efforts.

Another potential worry for the Fed remains the risk that rate cuts have fuelled - or will fuel - economic imbalances. Several top Fed officials - including Laurence Meyer, and Robert McTeer - have wondered aloud about the possibility of a surge in inflation.

However, several significant measures of inflation jitters indicators, though somewhat elevated, have subsided.

Fed funds futures prices, which had indicated that investors expected the Fed to tighten monetary policy around the end of the year, are now indicating expectations of another half-point to 3 per cent drop by February. 
   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument ftcom00020010715dx6r007sy  



 HD Upbeat US Data Prompt Little Change in Fed Rate Cut Forecasts.    BY By Steven K. Beckner    WC1,020 words   PD26 June 2001   ET19:32   SNMarket News International   SCMARNEW   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001. Market News International, Inc.
   LP Market News International - The generally positive looking economic numbers released leading up to the two-day Federal Open Market Committee meeting caused little wavering in expectations of what the Federal Reserve policymaking body will do with interest rates among prominent economists reached Tuesday morning. 

 Those looking for a 50 basis point rate reduction in the federal funds rate when the FOMC announces its decision Wednesday afternoon still look for 50, and those looking for a 25 basis point cut still look for 25. The decision from the meeting is expected to be announced at about 2:15 EDT (1815 GMT) Wednesday. 
   TD As the FOMC prepared to convene Tuesday afternoon, the Commerce Department released a pair of stronger-than-expected reports on durable goods orders and new home sales. Durable orders were up 2.9% in May following a revised 5.5% April drop. And new home sales were up 0.9% following a revised 4.5% April decline. 

 The National Association of Realtors reported Monday that existing home sales had rebounded by 2.9% in May after falling 3.9% in April. 

 In a similarly positive vein, the Conference Board said its index of consumer confidence rose more than expected in June, going to 117.9 from a revised 116.1. Improved expectations outweighed diminished assessments of current conditions. 

 Seemingly the one negative set of numbers came from two private surveys of chain store sales. Same store sales fell 1.3% relative in the first three weeks of June compared to May, according to Instinet Research's "Redbook" survey. And BTM-UBSW said its index of chain store sales fell 0.1% in the week ended June 23 after rising 1.0% the prior week. Year-over year sales were up a paltry 1.1%. 

 Asked to evaluate the overall impact of the data on the FOMC rate decision, long-time Fed watcher Charles Lieberman said "I don't think it affects it a great deal." 

 Lieberman, principal in Advisors Financial, said he still "lean(s) ever so slightly toward 25" basis points, but said he thinks the FOMC should cut the funds rate by 50 bps for the sixth time this year. 

 Mike Moran, chief economist of Daiwa Securities, said he still leans toward a 50-point rate cut, but said "I readily admit my confidence has been shaken given the numbers we've seen recently." 

 Robert DiClemente, senior economist for Salomon Smith Barney, was emphatic in saying he still expects a 50 basis point rate cut to 3.5%, saying the numbers are not nearly as strong as they look. 

 Lieberman said it seems to him that Fed officials' comments have been leaning toward a slower pace of easing, although he said he believes Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan favors a 50 basis point move. 

 "They're looking ahead and seeing the economy improving, they see fiscal stimulus coming, they see labor markets still relatively tight," he said. "That's the combination that suggests to them a 25." 

 "I lean the other way," Lieberman added, saying he favors continuing an aggressive easing pace "until I see evidence of a pick-up in activity." 

 Though durable goods orders were up, "they are very volatile," Lieberman observed. "While they definitely look better, there is no question that the manufacturing sector is still in recession." 

 Moran conceded the numbers of the last two days "very much support the case for a 25" but said he is sticking with his call for a 50 basis point reduction. 

 "If you look at the set of economic numbers until recently they were generally soft," Moran explained. "Consumer spending has been decelerating, manufacturing is decidedly weak and we're losing the export sector." 

 "If you weigh the risks the Fed faces right now ... the costs of not easing enough are more severe than the costs of easing too much," Moran continued. If the Fed eases too little, the economy could tip into recession - "a deep hole to dig out of." 

 Moran noted that the Conference Board report on consumer confidence was "not uniformly strong," with the current conditions component and buying plans falling. He said he put little faith in the Redbook survey but said it appears that consumer spending will slow to a 2% rate in the second quarter from 2.9% in the first. 

 DiClemente was most decisive in predicting a 50-point rate cut, downplaying the alleged strength of the data in the process. In particular, he said the durable goods headline numbers mask significant weakness. 

 According to DiClemente's calculations, "core" capital goods orders - non-defense capital goods orders excluding aircraft - in the first two months of the second quarter were down 25% at an annualized rate from the first quarter, and shipments of such goods were down 18%. 

 Core capital goods orders - a key indicator of business investment spending and a major recent worry for the Fed - "are almost in freefall," DiClemente said. "I'm not sure you can look at these headlines and get the full picture." 

 He said the Fed is bound to look at the continued weakness in non-defense capital goods excluding aircraft and remain concerned about weakness in the market for high tech goods. 

 DiClemente characterized the consumer confidence report as a case of "blue skies, white knuckles." Consumption for the quarter is apt to have slowed to "a little over 1%," and he said he also expects a very weak June employment report. 

 Although interest rate and tax cuts will eventually bring about economic recovery, there is a risk in the meantime that weakness in the labor market, particularly in manufacturing, could "spill over" and further weaken spending. As it is, he said, "it looks like we're just keeping our heads above water" on personal consumption expenditures. 

 "We're still grinding our way through with tremendous headwinds and making very little progress," DiClemente said. 

 "I would be quite relieved if they were to go 50," DiClemente said, but he acknowledged "it's a close call." 

 [TOPICS: MNSFED,MMUFE$,MGU 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   ANDocument marnew0020010714dx6q002h1  



 HD US Tsy - IMF Said May Need More Rate Cuts if Data Remains Weak.    WC650 words   PD26 June 2001   ET19:13   SNMarket News International   SCMARNEW   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001. Market News International, Inc.
   LP - IMF Staff in Art. IV Review Said Fed Easing Has Been 'Appropriate' - Reviving Growth Must Be 'Near-Term Policy Priority' - Monetary Policy 'Primary Instrument' For Boosting Growth; Short-Term Fiscal Stimulus Can Help Prevent Sharper Downturn 

 By Heather Scott 
   TD WASHINGTON (MktNews) - The IMF commended U.S. authorities for the sound policy framework, including the "substantial" round of rate cuts by the Federal Reserve, but said reviving growth must be a priority in the short term and more monetary policy easing may be necessary if economic indicators remain weak, the U.S. Treasury said Tuesday. 

 Quoting International Monetary Fund staff in their annual Article IV review of the U.S. economy, the Treasury statement said that in the face of the sharp slowdown "the IMF staff believes that the principal policy priority for the United States in the near term is to revive economic growth. 

 "While the new tax reduction act will provide some stimulus to domestic demand, monetary policy should be the primary instrument for stimulating economic activity," the statement said. The IMF also noted that fiscal stimulus along the lines of the recent Bush administration tax cut "will help insure against a sharper slowdown." 

 "The Federal Reserve's substantial easing of monetary policy since early 2001 has been appropriate. Whether further easing will be needed will depend on the economy's response to past interest rate cuts," the IMF said, noting that "if economic and financial indicators remain weak, additional cuts in interest rates may be necessary." 

 The Treasury statement was an early preview of the Art. IV consultations. The IMF executive board will release a statement with its recommendations, probably in late July, after the board reviews the staff report. 

 The Treasury said it would release the detailed staff report once the board statement comes out, in keeping with the effort to increase transparency in the fund's operations. While the IMF conducts annual reviews of all member economies, it is up to the country whether to release the board's statement or the staff report. 

 The IMF praised the Fed's "sure-handed" implementation of monetary policy, and said policy tightening in the face of strong growth in 1999 and early 2000 also was appropriate. 

 But with the current slowdown, "whether economic activity recovers soon or remains sluggish for a protracted period depends on how consumer and business confidence evolve," the IMF said. 

 The Fed's job should be made easier give the fact "inflationary pressures are expected to remain generally well contained owing to an easing in labor market tightness and strong competition in product markets," the statement said. 

 While the outlook for productivity growth remains favorable, the IMF cautioned that any deterioration of the productivity prospects "could trigger a downward revision in expected earnings growth and lead to a significant rebalancing of domestic and international portfolios." 

 That in turn "might involve a sharp adjustment of the dollar" in which case the IMF said "monetary policy should remain focused on ensuring sustained low-inflationary economic growth." 

 The IMF staff also touched on the long-term search for a solution to the Social Security/Medicare debate, and warned against any increase in protectionist pressures as a result of the strong dollar combined with a slowing economy. 

 In addition, the Treasury statement said the IMF commented on the dramatic improvement in the prospects for a "significant pay down in U.S. government debt" which will result in continued budget surpluses. 

 But the IMF noted that "if this money is to be saved, which it should be to deal with future liabilities, there is no choice but to invest such excess cash balances in private assets." The challenge is to do so in a way that would minimize "undue political interference" in investment decisions. 

 ** Market News International Washington Bureau (202) 371-2121 ** 

 [TOPICS: MNSFED,MMUFE$,MI 
   INi81501 : Credit Types/Services | i8150106 : Development Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | imf : International Monetary Fund | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations   REnamz : North America | usa : United States | usdc : Washington DC   ANDocument marnew0020010714dx6q002h0  



 HD U.S. Bond Market Association split on rate-cut size.    WC203 words   PD26 June 2001   ET17:07   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 Reuters Limited
   LP WASHINGTON, June 26 (Reuters) - A blue-ribbon panel of Bond Market Association advisers was evenly split on whether Federal Reserve policymakers will cut interest rates by a quarter or a half percentage point this week, said William Dudley of New York-based Goldman Sachs and Co. on Tuesday. 

 Dudley, who chairs the 12-member economic advisory committee, told a news conference that it expected the Fed to lower rates at least one more time after it does so this week to spur the slowing economy. 
   TD Fed policymakers were set to begin a two-day meeting on Tuesday afternoon to consider interest-rate policy and to announce a decision on Wednesday afternoon. 

 Dudley said U.S. economic growth was likely to "very, very close to zero" in the current second quarter. But looking ahead, the committee was "unanimous in their belief that the economy is on the verge of recovery," according to a published forecast. 

 While the advisory group foresaw unemployment rates continuing to climb, likely averaging 5 percent in 2002, Dudley said reduced tax rates and an anticipated fall in energy prices would give the economy a boost over the next 18 months. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States | usdc : Washington DC   ANDocument lba0000020010712dx6q00u0q  



 HD US agencies mixed on eve of Fed rate cut decision.    BY By Lynn Adler    WC470 words   PD26 June 2001   ET02:00   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 Reuters Limited
   LP NEW YORK, June 26 (Reuters) - U.S. agency securities were 

 mixed on the eve of the Federal Reserve's interest rate
   TD decision Wednesday, as Wall Street remained deeply divided 

 about the degree of rate cutting still needed to rev up the 

 economy. 

 Treasuries slumped, as some strong economic data caused 

 some players to scale back expectations for an aggressive 

 half-point rate reduction on Wednesday. Although the majority 

 of economists have predicted a quarter-point cut, a growing 

 number in recent days had ratcheted up their forecasts to a 

 half point. 

 Agency debt investors continue to show a penchant for 

 short-dated securities, with expectations for more rate cuts 

 after this week. But some concerned players hesitate to bulk up 

 on those securities until the Fed gives clearer signals this 

 week about its future policy plans. 

 "A lot of customers are very comfortable, with the Fed 

 being in an easing mode, being long short-end paper," a head 

 agencies trader said. 

 Among two-year notes in secondary trading, the yield spread 

 on Freddie Mac's of June 2003 narrowed to 29-28.5 basis points 

 over Treasuries from 30-29.5 basis points late Monday, 

 according to pricing service GovPX. 

 At the longer end, Fannie Mae 10-year notes due May 2011 

 widened slightly to a spread of 75-74.5 basis points, from 

 74.5-73.5 late Monday. 

 At the year's start, before the Fed's five half-point rate 

 cuts, comparable two-year notes were yielding about 50 basis 

 points more than Treasuries while similar 10-year notes were 

 quoted at spreads of around 83 basis points. 

 With the Fed seen nearing the end of its easing cycle, it 

 would seem that some of that consistently robust demand for 

 short-term securities would fade. The fed funds rate currently 

 stands at 4.00 percent. 

 But many participants "invariably wait too long," the 

 trader said. "You don't want to pick the low rate for the Fed. 

 Until they actually say they're done or give some indication 

 they're done, they're not done. But the smart guys trade out of 

 their position as the Fed's getting done. If you wait too long 

 you leave a lot of money on the table." 

 If the Fed reduces the federal funds rate by 25 basis 

 points, and indicates it will slow its easing, it could induce 

 selling of short-dated agencies and a shift to intermediate 

 agencies such as 10-year notes. 

 In the meantime, the Federal Farm Credit Banks will tap the 

 short-term sector on Wednesday, announcing Tuesday that it will 

 sell $1 billion of two-year designated bonds due July 1, 2003 

 via lead managers Goldman Sachs and J.P. Morgan. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   ANDocument lba0000020010712dx6q00r07  



 HD Canada should be wary of U.S. style easing-Dodge.    WC138 words   PD26 June 2001   ET21:47   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 Reuters Limited
   LP EDMONTON, Alberta, June 26 (Reuters) - Canada must be wary of having as easy a monetary policy as that in the United States, central bank chief David Dodge said on Tuesday. 

 "Circumstances at the moment are that in Canada we do not need, indeed we have to be cautious about, having a monetary policy that is quite as easy as that of the Federal Reserve," Dodge said in reply to questions. 
   TD Canada has cut interest rates by 1-1/4 percentage points so far this year, half the level of the rate cuts in the United States in the same period. 

 The U.S. Federal Reserve will announce on Wednesday whether it is cutting rates further. Canada's next preset date to announce interest rate changes in July 17. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REcana : Canada | namz : North America | usa : United States   ANDocument lba0000020010712dx6q00q4u  



 HD UPDATE 1-Waiting may be hardest part for Fed officials.    BY By Jonathan Nicholson    WC631 words   PD26 June 2001   ET21:42   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 Reuters Limited
   LP WASHINGTON, June 26 (Reuters) - Amid fresh signs of hope for the beleaguered U.S. economy, Federal Reserve officials gathered on Tuesday afternoon to discuss interest rate policy. 

 The Federal Open Market Committee, the panel responsible for setting the key federal funds rate, convened at about 2 p.m. EDT (1800 GMT), a spokeswoman said. Tuesday session is the first of a two-part meeting expected to culminate with the central bank's announcement of its decision Wednesday afternoon. 
   TD While Wall Street is united in thinking the central bank will cut rates again, economists are divided over the magnitude of that move. Some expect there will be heated debate on the subject among policymakers during the meeting. 

 A smaller, quarter-percentage point reduction could buy the Fed time to assess how well its previous moves are working their way through the economy. A larger, half-point move would signal concern that growth has yet to pick up. The Fed has already slashed rates five times since January. 

 A Reuters poll of firms that trade directly with the Fed found 14 dealers expect the Fed to opt for the smaller easing, while 11 expected a larger cut. 

 Tuesday's data, which included stronger-than-expected readings on U.S. consumer confidence, new home sales and orders for expensive manufactured goods, added to the case for a smaller cut but not decisively, analysts said. 

 "I don't think they were holding their breaths to see today's data," said Anthony Karydakis, senior financial economist with BancOne Capital Markets in Chicago. Still, Karydakis said he thinks the Fed will ease by only quarter-percentage point. 

 WORST-CASE SCENARIO? 

 One reason the outcome of the meeting is a tough call for private economists is that Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan has done little to tip his hand in his public comments, even though some of his colleagues have dropped hints they might lean toward a more gradualist move of a quarter point. 

 "It's a very close call," said Tim O'Neill, chief economist with Bank of Montreal/Harris Bank in Toronto. 

 O'Neill said he thinks the Fed will continue its pattern of half-point rate cuts, in view of "mixed" economic data lately. 

 Among the least ambiguous of that data are numbers for the manufacturing sector. According to the Fed's own numbers, U.S. industries are working at their slowest pace since 1983. Total industrial output has fallen for eight straight months. Job growth has also been slipping. 

 O'Neill said the Fed will ultimately decide that the threat of near-term economic activity sputtering out overshadows the risk that, six to nine months down the road, activity will rebound sharply and usher in higher inflation. 

 WORRY OF OVERSHOOTING 

 But others, including some Fed officials, are counseling further patience, warning that easing too much now risks stoking inflation down the road when growth recovers. 

 Dan Seto, senior economist with Sumitomo Life Investment Co. in New York, said he expects a quarter-point move, but with the Fed leaving open the option of easing again before its next meeting in August. 

 Seto said inflation is not as dormant as many have been portraying it. "It's not a forest fire yet, but there's some sparks here and there," he said. 

 Greenspan has stated publicly that he thinks inflation pressures are well-contained. 

 Fed governor Laurence Meyer, known as one of the more inflation-wary Fed officials, said in a May speech that it was time for the Fed to consider the risks of "overshooting" and raising the prospect of inflation when growth returns. In a June speech, though, he also said growth in the second quarter had yet to pick up. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   ANDocument lba0000020010712dx6q00q4s  



 HD Fed begins  interest rate  meeting, more easing seen.    WC238 words   PD26 June 2001   ET20:09   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 Reuters Limited
   LP WASHINGTON, June 26 (Reuters) - Federal Reserve policymakers began the first of a two-part meeting on U.S. interest rates on Tuesday, as debate simmered over how aggressive they will be in attempting to boost the economy, 

 The Federal Open Market Committee meeting began at about 2 p.m. EDT (1800 GMT), a central bank spokeswoman said. The FOMC will reconvene at about 9 a.m. (1300 GMT) Wednesday and will likely announce its decision at about 2:15 p.m. EDT (1815 GMT) on Wednesday. 
   TD The meeting comes amid uncertainty about the U.S. central bank's course of action. Although there is little doubt policymakers will cut interest rates, economists are divided about how aggressive the reduction will be. A poll by Reuters of primary dealers - firms that trade directly with the Fed in money markets - found 14 of the 25 dealers expect a quarter-percentage point cut in the federal funds rate. But 11 expect a larger half-percentage point reduction. 

 U.S. economic growth has been weak and uneven in recent months, making it more difficult than usual to forecast the Fed's decision. The factory sector has suffered a sharp decline in output and U.S. payrolls have shrunk for two straight months. However, readings released Tuesday on new home sales, orders for large manufactured goods and consumer confidence showed solid underpinnings for growth ahead. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   ANDocument lba0000020010712dx6q00pvx  



 HD UPDATE 2-IMF says U.S. may need more  interest rate  cuts.    BY By Mark Egan    WC770 words   PD26 June 2001   ET20:00   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 Reuters Limited
   LP WASHINGTON, June 26 (Reuters) - The International Monetary Fund said on Tuesday that more interest-rate cuts from the U.S. Federal Reserve may be needed if economic conditions remain weak in the world's richest economy. 

 In a staff report prepared for the IMF's annual assessment of the U.S. economy, the Washington-based lender praised the Fed for its "appropriate" monetary policy actions to date, noting that the duration of the economic slowdown depends on consumer and business confidence. 
   TD "Whether economic activity recovers soon or remains sluggish for a protracted period depends on how consumer and business confidence evolves," the report said. 

 It added that other factors affecting the duration of the slowdown included whether household and business borrowings create problems for banks and whether the productivity gains of U.S. workers seen in recent years are sustained. 

 "If economic and financial indicators remain weak, additional cuts in interest rates may be necessary," added the report, which was released by the U.S. Treasury. 

 The report said that while tax cuts might help the economy in the short term, monetary policy "should be the primary instrument for stimulating economic activity." 

 Given the economic situation, the IMF said the principal policy priority for the United States should be to revive growth. 

 LOWER RATES EXPECTED 

 Faced with an economy that has been slowing more than most economists expected, the U.S. central bank has moved aggressively to cut interest rates in an effort to boost growth prospects. Since the start of the year, the powerful central bank has lowered interest rates by 2.5 percentage points. 

 It is widely expected to cut interest rates again on Wednesday when it concludes its latest policy-setting meeting. 

 The report noted that the tandem slowing of the United States' major economic partners, including Europe and Japan, have also dampened activity at home. 

 Should U.S. productivity remain strong, the IMF staff said that inflation should remain subdued thanks to easing labor market conditions - something that will help the Fed as it mulls its forthcoming policy moves. 

 On a cautionary note, the lender said there could be a sharp decline in the U.S. dollar should productivity growth sag. Indeed, the report noted that the U.S. current account deficit, at more than 4.5 percent, was unsustainable and raised the risk of a sharp downturn in the dollar. 

 But with the right policy actions in the United States and elsewhere, "adjustments in the current account should occur in an orderly manner," the assessment concluded. 

 On the tax cut, which the Bush administration hopes will help revive the economy, the IMF said it could help to insure against a sharper slowdown. 

 But the report said it was foolish to lock in long-term tax cuts, noting that the cost of the Bush administration's $1.3 trillion tax cut "is likely to be significantly higher that current estimates." 

 "To firmly lock in place both tax reductions and new expenditure initiatives would substantially increase the risk that the budget position could deteriorate sharply in the longer term," the report said, noting the end result could jeopardize the goal of preserving the Social Security surplus. 

 MEDICARE REFORM NEEDED 

 With regard to the budget, the IMF said the government's plans to spend much of the budget reserve on its education and defense plans put the broader budget at risk because there is little room to cut discretionary spending elsewhere. 

 On medium-term fiscal priorities, the IMF said, "the ultimate objective has to be to ensure that sufficient resources are set aside to meet the future needs of Social Security and Medicare." 

 Medicare poses the larger problem, the report noted, saying that a long-term solution to the insurance plan for elderly Americans would require considering changing benefits, raising co-payments and deductibles and increasing contribution rates. Procrastination on making these difficult choices will mean more drastic measures will be needed later, the report said. 

 On a more positive note, the IMF said that the financing problems facing Social Security were not large, especially when compared with problems in the pension systems of other industrialized nations. 

 Among the options that could put the U.S. pension system on a sounder footing are voluntary individual retirement accounts within the Social Security pension system or investing those balances through the Social Security trust fund. 

 The report said the U.S. banking system remains sound despite a modest deterioration in the quality of commercial loans, which is likely to put more pressure on banking profits. 
   INi81501 : Credit Types/Services | i8150106 : Development Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | imf : International Monetary Fund | nanl : Analysis | ncat : Content Types | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   ANDocument lba0000020010712dx6q00puq  



 HD IMF says U.S. may need more  interest rate  cuts.    WC187 words   PD26 June 2001   ET18:05   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 Reuters Limited
   LP WASHINGTON, June 26 (Reuters) - The International Monetary Fund said on Tuesday that more interest-rate cuts may be needed from the U.S. Federal Reserve if economic conditions remain weak in the world's richest economy. 

 In a staff report prepared for the IMF's annual assessment of the U.S. economy, the Washington-based lender praised the Fed for its monetary policy actions to date, noting that the length of the economic slowdown depends on how consumer and business confidence evolves. 
   TD "Whether economic activity recovers soon or remains sluggish for a protracted period depends on how consumer and business confidence evolves," the report said, adding that other factors included whether household and business borrowings create problems for banks and whether productivity gains are sustained. 

 "If economic and financial indicators remain weak, additional cuts in interest rates may be necessary," the report, which was released by the U.S. Treasury, added. 

 The report said that while tax cuts might help the economy in the short term, monetary policy "should be the primary instrument for stimulating economic activity." 
   INi81501 : Credit Types/Services | i8150106 : Development Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | imf : International Monetary Fund | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   ANDocument lba0000020010712dx6q00ptv  



 HD Dollar's poise may falter as Fed chases US rebound.    BY By Atiya Hussain    WC678 words   PD26 June 2001   ET17:50   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 Reuters Limited
   LP NEW YORK, June 26 (Reuters) - The dollar is poised to benefit from a widely expected U.S. interest rate cut this week, but its broad strength may suffer down the line if a rebound continues to elude the world's No. 1 economy. 

 So far this year the steep U.S. economic slowdown, which has forced the U.S. Federal Reserve to slash interest rates by 2.50 percentage points, has failed to faze the dollar. 
   TD Instead, the greenback has climbed to 15-year highs on a trade-weighted basis as confidence in a U.S. recovery stays high among investors, especially with Japan's economy verging on recession and growth in Germany, Europe's biggest economy, on the decline. 

 Whether the Fed serves up an interest rate cut of a half or a quarter percentage point on Wednesday, currency analysts say the dollar should stay firm against other major currencies. 

 "I think the Fed's going to cut 25 basis points and that's bullish for the dollar," relative to the yen and euro, said Paul Podolsky, currency strategist at Fleet Global Markets in Boston. 

 "In Japan, the fact that the Fed is still concerned about growth here will alarm them about their export markets. And Europe is obviously just as vulnerable as the U.S. to slowdown in spending and weaker labor markets, but the (European Central Bank) has taken no action," Podolsky added. 

 STATEMENT IS CRUCIAL 

 Wall Street is divided down the middle over whether the Fed will keep chopping rates in half percentage point increments or slow its pace to a quarter percentage point ease. However, the statement the Fed issues with its rate decision is generally expected to leave the door open for further cuts. 

 But currency analysts say the dollar could get hit if the statement suggested the Fed was forced to abandon its focus on boosting growth because of inflation concerns. 

 Expectations for a quick U.S. rebound have been pared back repeatedly this year, and the prospect that the Fed may have run out of room for further stimulative rate cuts before getting the economy out of its rut is daunting, analysts said. 

 "What's going to matter for the dollar is the tone of the statement," said Lara Rhame, U.S. economist at Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. in New York, who expects a 50 basis point cut. 

 "What would be extremely dollar negative would be a statement that said, 'We've done all we can on the growth front. Price stability is now an issue, there's only so much that we can do'," Rhame said. 

 Even if the dollar rises in the short term, analysts say there could be negative implications for the dollar later on, as global economic recovery reduces the greenback's appeal as a safe haven in times of global turmoil. 

 "Going forward it's just going to be very tough for the dollar to keep its safe haven status," said Brian Garvey, senior currency strategist at State Street Corp. 

INTEREST RATE DIFFERENTIALS 

Interest rate differentials, traditionally the prime mover behind foreign exchange rates, have in recent years given way to economic growth differentials. This year the dollar has gained sharply on the euro even though European growth has outpaced that of the United States, boosted by expectations that the U.S. growth would pick up rapidly. 

 But since the Fed's aggressive cuts have dropped key U.S. interest rates to 4.0 percent so far, well below British rates at 5.25 percent, Australia's 5.0 percent and 4.50 percent in the euro zone and Canada, analysts say dollar bulls may have to temper some of their expectations. Relatively higher interest rates make investments more attractive, and are traditionally thought to boosting a currency's value. 

 "The interest-rate differential story will be very important for the pound, the Canadian dollar - for countries like that where economies are performing very well - even Australia," said BBH's Rhame. 
   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1101 : Economic Growth | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   ANDocument lba0000020010712dx6q00ptp  



 HD Dollar stuck in Tokyo ahead of US FOMC meeting    WC329 words   PD26 June 2001   SNAgence France-Presse   SCAFPR   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright 2001) 
   LP TOKYO, June 26 (AFP) - The dollar was stuck in a narrow range against the yen in Tokyo Tuesday as market players awaited the outcome of the two-day US Federal Reserve meeting to set interest rates, dealers said. 

 The greenback was quoted at 123.60-63 yen at 2:00 pm (0500 GMT), against 123.85 yen in New York and 124.00-03 yen in Tokyo late Monday. 
   TD "The dollar moved in a tight range in Tokyo as investors took a wait-and-see stance ahead of the FOMC (Federal Open Market Committee) meeting," said Kiyoshi Kuzuhara, dealer at Bank of  Tokyo- Mitsubishi. 

 The US central bank will hold its two-day meeting starting on Tuesday amid rising speculation the Fed may cut its key short-term interest rate by between a quarter and a half percentage point. Such a move would mark the Fed's sixth rate cut this year. 

 Apart from the FOMC factor, the dollar was under pressure due to inter-bank selling, Kuzuhara said. 

 The euro was quoted at 0.8619 dollars around 2:00 pm, against 0.8593 dollars in New York and 0.8590-93 dollars in Tokyo Monday afternoon. 

 The anticipated cut in US interest rates was boosting the euro against the dollar, a dealer with BNP Paribas said. 

 "In the opening we saw some euro selling down to 0.8590 but American names are buying the euro," the dealer said. 

 "Even though they are waiting for the FOMC meeting, since people are expecting a bigger rate cut, they are bearish on the dollar and bullish on the euro," he added. 

 The dealer said the European currency needs to break the  0.8630- 40 technical resistance level "in order to have more upside momentum." 

 Against the yen, the euro was quoted at 106.53, compared with 106.35 in New York and 106.56 in Tokyo late Monday. 

 bur-krn/dmh/bro 
   COmitfin : Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Inc.   INi814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REasiaz : Asia | easiaz : Eastern Asia | jap : Japan | namz : North America | usa : United States | weurz : Western Europe   IPDFood | SEQN: 0095   ANDocument afpr000020010709dx6q01r7g  



 HD The Fed's Faded Glory    BY By Martin Mayer    WC1,264 words   PD26 June 2001   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGA22   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 2001, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP If there is going to be "monetary policy," and almost everybody these days agrees that there ought to be monetary policy, the hard question is the target that policy should try to hit. There are three simple answers -- economic activity (technically, gross domestic product), inflation, and employment. The Federal Reserve system, which creates and enforces monetary policy in the U.S., is enjoined by law to promote growth, eliminate inflation, and increase employment, all at once. To achieve these goals, it has exactly one tool: It can raise or lower the interest rate that financial institutions pay when they borrow from each other overnight. It's hard to hit three targets with one bullet, and easy to kill the wrong one. 
   TD Years ago, the Fed had much more to work with. William McChesney Martin, as chairman of the Fed in the 1950s, could and did change the reserves banks had to keep at the Fed, increase or reduce activity at the "discount window" through which the Fed provided money for banks to lend, change the "margin requirements" that determined how much credit was available to stock market speculators, and set maximum interest rates banks could pay for deposits at a time when the only way banks could increase their total assets was by drawing new deposits or borrowing from each other. And in those days lending by the banks provided about two-thirds of the financing of American commerce and industry. 

 Banks' asset portfolios were stuffed with government bonds inherited from the budget deficits of the World War II years, and the value of these bonds fluctuated according to the interest rates the Fed could control. By relatively small movements of the rates, Martin could keep inflation under control while forcing the Eisenhower administration to accept what John F. Kennedy in the 1960 election would deride as a "stop/go" economy. 

 And it was all done behind closed doors: The public did not know for six months or more what decisions were made at the meetings of the Federal Open Market Committee, and even after six months the revelations were obscurely phrased to provide a minimum of information. What the Fed did affected what the banks did, which affected what the real economy did, which later affected prices in the stock market. 

 Former Fed governor Sherman Maisel reported that when President Richard Nixon joked in the Oval Office about how he hoped for easier money from Arthur Burns, whom he was swearing in as the new Fed chairman, all the people from the Fed were "extremely uncomfortable," because they had already given orders to their underlings to lower rates, and the underlings were doing it, but nobody knew. Banks and Wall Street houses hired "Fed watchers" to read the entrails. 

 Today, banks provide maybe one-fifth of the financing of American commerce and industry, and they are armored against a Fed trying to control them. "Reserve requirements" are meaningless, because most bank reserves are "vault cash" in ATM machines that would have to be stocked anyway. Banks get most of the money they lend by borrowing in the money markets, and the discount window is inoperative, because banks are scared that if they are seen borrowing from the Fed everyone will assume the market has locked them out. Meanwhile, banks can buy or sell "derivatives" that enable them to continue quite painlessly doing (or not doing) whatever it was the Fed wanted them to stop (or do). 

 The Fed, in other words, has much less real power than it had a generation ago. So it has become a highly theatrical enterprise, eager to seize attention and create attitudes. Where once the puppet-master was behind the scenes concealing the strings, the spin-master is now out front, announcing decisions and reasons for them while the market is open -- sometimes, indeed, just before the expiration of options and futures contracts, leveraging the exposures of stock speculators for the purposes of the central bank. 

 The problem with all this is not the confusion of government and theater, because governing is in many ways a theatrical art, but the absence of any viable economic theory to explain why the Fed's jiggling with overnight interest rates should have more than a marginal effect on economic activity. Since January, the Fed has knocked 2.5 percentage points from the overnight interest rate -- and looks likely to cut by another half point this week -- but the yield on AAA-rated corporate bonds has actually risen by about 0.25%, and it's the long rates that most affect investment planning. 

 From David Hume in 18th-century Scotland to John Maynard Keynes in the 1930s, it was assumed that if you put more "money" into an economy, people felt richer and spent more, which stimulated growth. But it was also assumed that if you raised interest rates you increased savings (people were paid more to save) and if you lowered interest rates you reduced the international value of your currency (by discouraging foreign investment). Also that the later stages of an upswing in the economy reduced productivity ("diminishing returns") as you began to plow the less productive farmland and hire the less efficient workers. None of this has been happening. 

 Monetary theory as a stepsister of general economic theory incorporated and has retained many of these now false rules of thumb, inserting arbitrary correctives as needed, and today the subject is a mess. Technological change has deep-sixed the old monetary theories without floating a new one. Laurence Meyer, who was in the forecasting business before he became a Fed governor, said not long ago that the Fed's own models assumed that its changes in interest rates were a "policy reaction" to developments in the real economy, not the main drivers of anything. In his own models, he said, "real interest rates are determined by forces of productivity and thrift" -- not by the Federal Open Market Committee. 

 Three years ago, Alan Greenspan told a meeting in Washington that the Fed had the best economists and mathematicians in the world, so its models were the best in the world, "and the fact that they have been wrong for fourteen straight quarters does not mean they will be wrong in the fifteenth quarter." 

 Because there is no viable theory, there is no way to predict whether the next stimulus by the Fed will promote economic activity, increase the prices of goods and services (the "cost of living") or raise the prices of assets (the "stock market bubble"). Mr. Greenspan's Fed has been lucky: Massive stimulation to pave over the problems of the 1990s went almost entirely into asset prices. But inflation has been pushing 3.5%, a level at which Martin's Fed went into crisis mode. Mr. Greenspan's repeated statements that inflation isn't a worry have the sound of whistling past a graveyard, especially because the tune harmonizes only with a decline in energy prices, which may be many months away. 

 When oil prices jumped in 1973, the U.S. suffered a decade of stagflation -- low growth in national product and painful increase in prices. It could happen again. Looking at monetary policy and what it does, Mr. Greenspan must now consider whether the benefit of pushing the stock market up a little is worth the growing risk that this time the Fed will be fueling inflation. 

 --- 

 Mr. Mayer is a guest scholar at the Brookings Institution. His book, "The Fed," has just been published by the Free Press. 
   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nedc : Commentary/Opinion   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument j000000020010711dx6q00eup  
 Page 1 of 1      2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.


 

 Page 1      2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.

