 


 HD Fed Lowers Interest Rates by Half Point --- Inflation Risk Is Dismissed, But Recession Remains A Threat, Officials Say    BY By Jacob M. Schlesinger    CRStaff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal   WC869 words   PD16 May 2001   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGA3   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 2001, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP WASHINGTON -- The Federal Reserve approved its fifth big interest-rate cut in as many months and did nothing to signal that it is ending its dramatic campaign to jump-start the stalled economy. 

 In addition to lowering short-term rates by half a percentage point, the central bank issued a statement dismissing bond market worries that inflationary risks are rising and flatly declared that Fed officials still feel that recession remains the greater danger to the U.S. and the world. 
   TD In their surprisingly gloomy assessment of current conditions, Chairman Alan Greenspan and his colleagues even seemed to play down some tentative signs that economic activity may be stabilizing. Their five-paragraph statement, issued to explain the decision and signal the outlook for future action, was virtually identical to the one given after the emergency rate cut made in April between regularly scheduled meetings. 

 The rate cut was widely anticipated, and stock markets had little reaction to the 2:15 p.m. announcement. By day's end, the major indexes were almost flat, with the Dow Jones Industrial Average down just over four points, and the Nasdaq Composite Index up just under four points. 

 But the announcement did change expectations for imminent Fed behavior. The futures market that trades on coming meetings now expects a better-than-even chance of another rate cut -- albeit a smaller, quarter-point one -- when officials gather next on June 26 and June 27. Yesterday morning, traders had been betting that yesterday's rate cut would be the Fed's last. "An improvement in the economy over the next several weeks or the passage of aggressive tax cuts could alter this view, but at this point, odds favor more stimulus from the Fed," said Michael Moran, chief economist of Daiwa Securities America Inc. 

 The central bank's target for the fed-funds rate -- the rate banks use to lend to each other overnight -- is now at 4%, the lowest level in seven years and nearly 40% below the 6.5% level in place for much of last year. The Fed also lowered the largely symbolic discount rate it charges on loans to banks to 3.5% from 4%. Such loans are rarely made in practice. 

 The effects will ripple quickly through interest-sensitive sectors of the economy. Within minutes of the Fed's announcement, major commercial banks -- such as Bank of America Corp. and Bank One Corp. -- announced a parallel reduction in their prime rate to 7% from 7.5%. That change will affect a wide range of consumer and business loans and could help sustain the surprisingly resilient consumer-spending boom. 

 This year's rate cuts are "a significant factor in our forecast that growth will rebound in the second half of this year," Macroeconomic Advisers, a St. Louis forecasting firm, wrote in a recent report. It predicted annualized gross-domestic-product growth rebounding to 3% from the first quarter's 2% pace. 

 Other economists, however, are less sanguine. Mortgage rates are unlikely to fall much more, if at all, because these market-driven rates have already been dropping for weeks in anticipation of the latest Fed action. That implies the housing sector -- a rare source of economic strength this year -- may not get any further boost. 

 Skeptics also say the Fed's moves won't do much in the short run to spur weak business investment, since companies are still saddled with excess capacity. Fed officials acknowledged that concern, noting in their statement that "investment in capital equipment . . . has continued to decline" and adding that ongoing "considerable uncertainty about the business outlook . . . seems likely to hold down capital spending going forward." 

 And if companies are still cutting back, yesterday's action could be too late to prevent a further sharp jump in the unemployment rate, which hit 4.5% in April, up from 3.9% last fall. 

 Many analysts were surprised that the Fed didn't use yesterday's statement to begin to signal an exit strategy from this rate-cutting cycle. After all, the worst may actually be over, as businesses have worked off unwanted stockpiles. 

 Besides, monetary policy works with long lags. Bond markets weakened yesterday on worries that the Fed, in a panicked response to short-term weakness, is in danger of going overboard and fueling inflation by year's end. "The bond market is beginning to doubt the Fed's anti-inflation resolve," Merrill Lynch & Co. analysts wrote in a recent report. 

 But yesterday's statement pointedly refuted that argument. "With pressures on labor and product markets easing, inflation is expected to remain contained," the Fed said. 

 Mr. Greenspan also used the statement to reaffirm his New Economy belief -- which has been challenged by recent data -- that the economy's long-term rate of productivity growth remains high, suggesting that companies will continue to find big efficiency gains to keep inflation under control for some time to come. 

 The Fed said that "the impressive underlying rate of increase that developed in recent years appears to be largely intact." 
   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1103 : Inflation/Prices | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument j000000020010711dx5g00bi1  



 HDFed sends out clear signals of more rate cuts to come.   BYBy GERARD BAKER and PERONET DESPEIGNES.    WC698 words   PD16 May 2001   SNFinancial Times   SCFTFT   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPWas yesterday's fifth consecutive half-point cut in short-term interest rates the end, the beginning of the end, or merely the end of the beginning of the Federal Reserve's dramatic and (in modern times at least) unprecedented efforts to prop up the weakening US economy?

Until the Fed announced its change yesterday, a growing number of economists had come round to the view that it could well be the last.
   TDThe cut would bring the cumulative easing of monetary policy to 250 basis points in five months, and take the federal funds rate to 4 per cent - its lowest level since 1994.

With evidence that some of the most-feared scenarios of economic slump were not going to be played out, and amid growing concern about the risk of a sharp uptick in inflation in the medium-term, financial futures markets appeared to be pricing in the probability that the move would mark the end of the current easing cycle.

But with its actions yesterday the Fed signalled that talk of an end to interest rate cuts was premature.

The rate reduction itself was in line with expectations, and there was certainly no repeat of the hint given at the end of the last scheduled meeting of the Fed's policymaking open market committee in March that another rate cut could be expected before the next planned meeting.

But with its emphasis on the weakness in much of the US economy and, surprisingly to some, its dismissal of inflation concerns, it was the statement accompanying the interest rate move that most strongly suggested there may be more to come.

The statement referred to the continuing weakness of investment spending and profits, and mounting uncertainty about the business outlook that "seems likely to hold down capital spending going forward". This capital spending bust is what has driven rates lower so far, and the Fed was clear yesterday that it has seen no sign of an abatement.

Furthermore, the central bank seemed eager to go out of its way to ease concerns that inflation is accelerating. Inflation was "expected" to "remain contained", it said, adding that while productivity growth stalled in the first quarter, its trend "appears to be largely intact".

"The Fed made clear that unless the economic data show a clear-cut turn in the next six weeks there is more easing in sight," said John Lipsky, chief economist at JP Morgan Chase in New York. "The economy has now grown for three quarters in a row at 2 per cent, in other words about half of the potential growth rate. That will ease any inflationary pressures that have been developing on resources."

Financial markets are now pricing in at least the strong possibility of a 25 basis point cut at the next Fed meeting on June 27, and are starting to entertain the prospect of more at the August meeting.

Much will, of course, depend on the data published in the next few weeks.

But some economists continue to worry that inflation will eventually keep the Fed from being overly aggressive. Consumer price inflation has risen sharply in the last six months, notes Stephen Cecchetti, an economics professor at Ohio State University and a former official at the New York Fed, and the April figures to be published today may show it has risen above 3 per cent.

"With the fed funds rate now lower by 250 basis points since the start of the year, and inflation rising, real interest rates have plummeted," he says.

Several analysts who were among the first to warn of the threat of a severe downturn or predict an aggressive easing - including Brian Wesbury, chief economist of Griffith, Kubik, Stephens &Thompson, and Ed Yardeni, chief investment strategist at Deutsche Banc Alex.Brown - have since warned that the Fed may have gone too far.

But for the time being the bank chiefs seem prepared to leave those concerns aside and concentrate on the task of steering the economy away from recession.

Additional reporting by Lesia Rudakewych and Jenny Wiggins in New York. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument ftft000020010715dx5g001vq  



 HD UPDATE 1-Hubbard sees US pick up round yr-end as rates help.    WC274 words   PD16 May 2001   ET18:25   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 Reuters Limited
   LP PARIS, May 16 (Reuters) - U.S. economic growth is likely to pick up from around the end of this year, while remaining "very modest" up until then, Glenn Hubbard, the new chief economic adviser to President George W Bush, said on Wednesday. 

 Hubbard, confirmed last week as head of the so-called U.S. Council of Economic Advisers, also said that he expected recent interest rate cuts by the U.S. Federal Reserve to have an impact on the economy "towards the end of this year". 
   TD The Federal Reserve cut benchmark interest rates for the fifth time this year on Tuesday - to four percent - in a bid to inject fresh life into the U.S. powerhouse economy after a sharp slowdown in activity late last year. 

 Hubbard was speaking to reporters on the first day of a two-day gathering of trade and finance ministers from the 30 member countries in the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development. 

 "We had a growth slowdown in the U.S. - I don't think we are likely to be in a recession this year or next year but we have seen a sharp deceleration in the rate of growth," he said. 

 Hubbard, said weakness in consumption and capital spending by companies, especially in the information technology sector, were two key factors that would be critical for the economy. 

 "I put myself in the camp of most of the economists in the private sector in the U.S. who would forecast an upturn towards the end of 2001 and going into 2002," he added. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REeurz : Europe | fra : France | medz : Mediterranean | namz : North America | usa : United States | weurz : Western Europe   ANDocument lba0000020010713dx5g001id  



 CLMCredit Markets   HDMost Treasurys Fall, After Fed's Move as Concern Grows That Economic Boost Could Spur Inflation   BYBy Gregory Zuckerman      CRStaff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal   WC872 words   PD16 May 2001   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGC15   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 2001, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)   
   LPNEW YORK -- Prices of most Treasurys fell after the Federal Reserve cut interest rates half a percentage point.

On its face, the reaction seemed out of place, since rate cuts often initiate bond rallies. But yesterday's Fed move sparked some concern that if the Fed succeeds in boosting the economy, a resurgence of inflation could follow.
   TDShort-term Treasurys rose slightly, however, as language accompanying the Fed's move suggested more interest-rate cuts could take place in the months ahead.

In late trading, the benchmark 10-year Treasury note fell 12/32, or $3.75 for a bond with $1,000 face value, to 96 12/32. The bond's yield, which rises as the price falls, rose to 5.484%. Thirty-year Treasury bonds fell 16/32 to yield 5.892%.

The Fed lowered its short-term interest-rate target -- the federal-funds rate -- to 4%, the lowest level in seven years, in an effort to revive the economy. The fed-funds rate is the rate banks charge each other for overnight loans.

"They're erring on the side of [trying to boost] growth, and the market is fearful the Fed may overdo it" by cutting rates too much, sparking inflation, said Richard Bodkin, head government trading at Banc One Capital Markets in Chicago.

Shorter-term Treasurys, which are most affected by movements in the fed-funds rate, did much better, as investors bet the Fed could cut rates again next month. Two-year Treasury notes rose 1/32 to yield 4.251%.

As is usually the case, the Fed's move triggered a drop in the prime rate, the base for a wide range of loans to individuals and smaller businesses, at major banks. Bank of America, Bank One and First Union announced they were cutting their prime lending rate by a half-point, from 7.5% to 7%, effective today. Other commercial banks followed suit. Rates on loans such as home-equity loans should be affected by the change. But the effect on home-mortgage rates isn't as predictable. Those typically are pegged to the 10-year Treasury note yield, which moves based on expected future Fed moves, not past ones.

Some investors "had been fearful that recent strong economic data might mean the Fed might" cut rates by just a quarter of a percentage point yesterday, said Mr. Bodkin, so the Fed's half-point move helped these shorter-term Treasurys.

"The surprise was in the fact that the statement doesn't drop any hint that the easing process is winding down, which is what most people were expecting," said Banc One Capital Markets senior economist Anthony Karydakis. "The door is left wide open [for more rate cuts], given the litany of potential problems" facing the economy.

But many bond investors concluded that the series of Fed cuts since January will eventually help stocks and the economy, but not bonds, which do best in times of slow growth and low inflation. Other investors said the Fed might cut rates again this year, but might have to begin raising them by next year, if inflation becomes a problem.

With energy prices rising and the Fed's rate cuts expected to start helping the economy in the months ahead, inflation fears have begun to take center stage in the bond market, even though inflation remains largely contained.

The Fed attempted to ease those inflation fears in its statement accompanying the rate move, saying that "with pressures on labor and product markets easing, inflation is expected to remain contained."

But many bond investors continued to look down the road, to a stronger economy with higher risks of inflation.

"The message of the market is that the economy will be better in the second half of the year," said William A. Hornbarger, chief fixed-income strategist at A.G. Edwards & Sons. Mr. Hornbarger argued that inflation fears are overdone, and bonds could be a good buy at these levels.

Mortgage Securities

Bear Stearns said it sold $5.95 billion in mortgage-backed securities, or MBS, for FleetBoston Financial as part of asset disposals by FleetBoston after it completed its merger with Summit Bancorp.

The transaction was unusual in that Bear Stearns was given exclusive rights to sell the securities. Typically, merger-related assets are auctioned.

The sale included $1.7 billion of Freddie Mac Re-Remic certificates series 2299 and $1.12 billion of Fannie Mae Re-Remic certificates 2001-2011, which Bear Stearns said were the largest resecuritizations ever by either agency. It said the sale also included a $367-million Government National Mortgage Association Re-Remic, the resecuritization of $1.6 billion in private-label MBS and $800 million of collateralized mortgage obligations that weren't resecuritized.

Tom Marano, a senior managing director at Bear Stearns' mortgage-backed securities department, said initially there were about 500 issues, each averaging $10 million to $15 million. By repackaging them, Bear Stearns was able to sell them more quickly, he said.

---

John Parry and Joy C. Shaw contributed to this article. 
   INi814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSm12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | c172 : Corporate Debt Instruments | mntdbt : National Government Debt/Bond Markets | e1103 : Inflation/Prices | e1202 : Interest Rates | c1521 : Analyst Comment/Recommendation | e1101 : Economic Growth | e1122 : Mortgage Applications/Refinancing | gvtre : Treasury Department | m131 : Money Markets | c13 : Regulation/Government Policy | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | c15 : Performance | c152 : Earnings Projections | c17 : Funding/Capital | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | gvexe : Executive Branch | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter   REusa : United States | usma : Massachusetts | namz : North America | use : Northeast U.S.   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument j000000020010711dx5g00bg8  



 HDFed sends out clear signals of more rate cuts to come.   BYBy GERARD BAKER AND PERONET DESPEIGNES IN WASHINGTON.    WC705 words   PD16 May 2001   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPWas on Tuesday's fifth consecutive half-point cut in short-term interest rates the end, the beginning of the end, or merely the end of the beginning of the Federal Reserve's dramatic and (in modern times at least) unprecedented efforts to prop up the weakening US economy?

Until the Fed announced its change on Tuesday, a growing number of economists had come round to the view that it could well be the last.
   TDThe cut would bring the cumulative easing of monetary policy to 250 basis points in five months, and take the federal funds rate to 4 per cent - its lowest level since 1994.

With evidence that some of the most-feared scenarios of economic slump were not going to be played out, and amid growing concern about the risk of a sharp uptick in inflation in the medium-term, financial futures markets appeared to be pricing in the probability that the move would mark the end of the current easing cycle.

But with its actions on Tuesday the Fed signalled that talk of an end to interest rate cuts was premature.

The rate reduction itself was in line with expectations, and there was certainly no repeat of the hint given at the end of the last scheduled meeting of the Fed's policymaking open market committee in March that another rate cut could be expected before the next planned meeting.

But with its emphasis on the weakness in much of the US economy and, surprisingly to some, its dismissal of inflation concerns, it was the statement accompanying the interest rate move that most strongly suggested there may be more to come.

The statement referred to the continuing weakness of investment spending and profits, and mounting uncertainty about the business outlook that "seems likely to hold down capital spending going forward". This capital spending bust is what has driven rates lower so far, and the Fed was clear on Tuesday that it has seen no sign of an abatement.

Furthermore, the central bank seemed eager to go out of its way to ease concerns that inflation is accelerating. Inflation was "expected" to "remain contained", it said, adding that while productivity growth stalled in the first quarter, its trend "appears to be largely intact".

"The Fed made clear that unless the economic data show a clear-cut turn in the next six weeks there is more easing in sight," said John Lipsky, chief economist at JP Morgan Chase in New York. "The economy has now grown for three quarters in a row at 2 per cent, in other words about half of the potential growth rate. That will ease any inflationary pressures that have been developing on resources."

Financial markets are now pricing in at least the strong possibility of a 25 basis point cut at the next Fed meeting on June 27, and are starting to entertain the prospect of more at the August meeting.

Much will, of course, depend on the data published in the next few weeks.

But some economists continue to worry that inflation will eventually keep the Fed from being overly aggressive. Consumer price inflation has risen sharply in the last six months, notes Stephen Cecchetti, an economics professor at Ohio State University and a former official at the New York Fed, and the April figures to be published on Wednesday may show it has risen above 3 per cent.

"With the fed funds rate now lower by 250 basis points since the start of the year, and inflation rising, real interest rates have plummeted," he says.

Several analysts who were among the first to warn of the threat of a severe downturn or predict an aggressive easing - including Brian Wesbury, chief economist of Griffith, Kubik, Stephens &Thompson, and Ed Yardeni, chief investment strategist at Deutsche Banc Alex.Brown - have since warned that the Fed may have gone too far.

But for the time being the bank chiefs seem prepared to leave those concerns aside and concentrate on the task of steering the economy away from recession.

Additional reporting by Lesia Rudakewych and Jenny Wiggins in New York. 
   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nedc : Commentary/Opinion   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument ftcom00020010715dx5g004nw  



 HD US Tsy's O'Neill - Admin.Respects Independence of Fed Mon.Pol.    WC126 words   PD15 May 2001   ET20:18   SNMarket News International   SCMARNEW   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001. Market News International, Inc.
   LP - Administration Shares Fed Goals of Healthy Economy, Low Inflation 

 WASHINGTON (MktNews) - U.S. Treasury Secretary Paul O'Neill released a terse statement just after the Federal Open Market Committee announced its interest rate decision Tuesday, saying the administration respects the Fed's independence. 
   TD "The administration respects the independence of the Federal Reserve in making decisions about our nation's monetary policy," O'Neill said in a statement. "We share the Federal Reserve's goals of maintaining healthy economic growth while preserving low inflation." 

 The Treasury apparently was trying to head off reporters' questions on the administration's reaction to the rate decision. 

 ** Market News International Washington Bureau (202) 371-2121 ** 

 [TOPICS: MNSFED,MMUFE$,MGU 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | gvexe : Executive Branch | gvtre : Treasury Department   REnamz : North America | usa : United States | usdc : Washington DC   ANDocument marnew0020010713dx5f00jjl  



 HD POLL-Wall St sees Fed slowing pace of rate cuts.    BY By Marjorie Olster    WC868 words   PD16 May 2001   ET00:49   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 Reuters Limited
   LP NEW YORK, May 15 (Reuters) - Wall Street knows all good things must come to an end, and monthly Federal Reserve interest rate cuts of half a percentage point are no exception. 

 A new Reuters poll conducted after the Fed aggressively lowered rates on Tuesday for the fifth time this year found 16 of the 25 leading U.S. bond dealers expect the central bank to slow its breakneck pace of easing credit to shore up the rickety economy. 
   TD Twelve primary dealers of U.S. government securities - those firms that deal directly with the Fed in the money markets - forecast a quarter-point rate cut at the next policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) on June 26-27. Four called for no change and eight expected another half-point cut next month. One dealer made no call. 

 The sheer volume and speed of Fed rate cuts this year - an unprecedented 2.50 percentage points since January - coupled with some economic data suggesting the consumer may have the fortitude to keep growth humming along may give the Fed pause, analysts said. 

 "On a percentage basis, that is the most rapid Fed easing on record," Bruce Steinberg, chief economist at Merrill Lynch, said in a commentary. "The days of both 50-basis-point rate cuts and intermeeting moves are probably over with at this point." 

 The Fed on Tuesday lowered the overnight bank lending or federal funds rate from 4.5 percent to 4.0 percent - its lowest level in seven years. The lesser used discount rate was cut to 3.50 from 4.0 percent. 

 The Fed's frantic pace of rate cutting this year was an attempt to ward off a recession or prolonged contraction in activity in the world's most powerful economy. The United States is in the eleventh year of a record expansion. 

 The Fed's statement on the latest rate cut cited concerns about the sharp fall-off in business investment and dismal corporate profits, a fall in equity wealth and a weakening global economy in its decision to cut rates. 

 FED MORE PESSIMISTIC THAN EXPECTED 

 The central bank signaled that it was ready to cut rates further by saying the greatest risk to the economy remained excessive economic weakness rather than inflation. 

 There was no hint in the statement that the Fed was about to stop cutting rates, which surprised some Fed watchers. 

 "I was looking for a glimmer of hope in their statement, but it was a more pessimistic statement than I expected. I think the text points to a further cut of 25 basis points in June," said Peter Kretzmer, senior economist at Banc of America Securities in New York. 

 Michael Moran, chief economist at Daiwa Securities America Inc. in New York said he too expected a more optimistic statement that would signal the Fed was close to the end of the easing cycle. 

 "But you do not see that in the statement. It implies they're prepared to move further if the economic numbers do not improve noticeably." 

 Fifteen primary dealers forecast the funds rate would fall to 3.50 percent or lower by year end while one said it would be 3.0 percent. Six said it would be 3.75 percent and three forecast it would end at the current 4.0 percent. 

 REASONS TO DOWNSHIFT 

 More than anything the Fed said on Tuesday, economists pointed to the critical mass of rate cuts as reason enough for a downshifting in the pace of future credit easing. 

 But there are other reasons to believe the end is near. There have been some mixed signals emanating from economic statistics recently pointing to signs of a revival of consumer confidence and strength in spending even in the face of rising unemployment. 

 And the bond market, fearing the huge rate cuts will soon translate into a stronger economy and a greater threat of inflation, has started to fight the Fed. 

 Investors selling bonds in the past few months have pushed market rates higher - a move that can restrain economic activity, which is precisely the opposite of what the Fed is trying to do. 

 While the Fed sounded reassuring about inflation in their statement, saying it remained contained, veteran Fed-watchers read between the lines and said this could mask a growing concern. 

 It was, after all, the first time since January that the Fed even mentioned the name of its chief nemesis - inflation. The word did not appear in statements on the last two rate cuts March and April rate cuts. 

 "The fact that they say they expect inflation to remain contained means they are worried about it," said Cary Leahey, senior U.S. economist at Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. in New York. 

 Persistently high energy prices, falling productivity rates and accelerating wage rises are all causing angst for inflation-wary bond investors. 

 "We think the Fed has overmanaged the economy, and as such I think that we'll see at least a temporary acceleration of consumption but also a risk of increased inflation towards the end of the year," said Kretzmer. "They are creating a very volatile environment." 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nsur : Survey/Poll   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   ANDocument lba0000020010713dx5f002sh  



 HD U.S. rate cut keeps dollar on track for more gains.    BY By Lida Poletz    WC695 words   PD15 May 2001   ET23:43   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 Reuters Limited
   LP NEW YORK, May 15 (Reuters) - The Federal Reserve's latest interest rate cut failed to surprise or excite the currency markets on Tuesday, but longer-term it should foster further dollar gains against the euro, analysts said. 

 Over the course of the Fed's five deep rate cuts this year, the dollar has benefited from the view among investors that the U.S. central bank is taking firm action to revive its flagging economy. In sharp contrast, the European Central Bank has been criticized for doing too little, too late. 
   TD With that dollar-friendly mind-set firmly in place, the market has sold the euro down nearly 10 percent against the U.S. currency since January. Tuesday's half percentage point Fed rate cut did nothing to disrupt that trend, analysts said. 

 "Today's rate cut sows the seeds for continued dollar strength," said Alex Beuzelin, foreign exchange market analyst at Ruesch International. 

 "We're operating in an environment of global economic uncertainty, and market participants want to see central banks cutting interest rates to boost growth. Today's move will help cushion the U.S. economy and help support investor, consumer and business sentiment." 

 The Fed cut both the overnight federal funds rate and the more symbolic discount rate by half a percentage point - to 4.0 percent and 3.5 percent, respectively - and signaled further rate cuts were possible going forward. 

 LONGER TERM POSITIVE 

 The dollar's immediate reaction was muted - it ticked slightly higher against the euro, then pared its gains to trade in modestly weaker territory from the prior day's close at around 87.80 cents per euro. EUR=) 

 Traders said the rate cut had been widely expected and therefore well priced into the market ahead of the actual announcement. 

 Some dealers also noted that the Fed's strong language, stressing that risks remain in the U.S. economy, may have also given dollar bulls pause by raising questions about the depth of the economic slowdown. 

 In a statement accompanying the rate announcement, the Fed stressed worries about falling business investment spending and weak corporate profits and cited excessive weakness remaining as the main threat to the U.S. economy. 

 But analysts said that as long as the rate cuts deliver economic stimulus later this year, the longer-term picture remains positive for the dollar. 

 "This has been the most aggressive assault on an economic slowdown that the Fed has presented under (Fed Chairman Alan) Greenspan," said Lara Rhame, currency economist at Brown Brothers Harriman in New York. 

 "It's purely focused on keeping growth solid with no inflation whatsoever. We're going to get these tax rebates at the same time, so there are lots of forces to stimulate the economy in the second half, and that's dollar positive." 

 In contrast to the Fed, the European Central Bank has been criticized for being behind the curve in easing monetary policy, and the negative sentiment has weighed heavily on the euro even as data show European growth outpacing the United States. 

 Last week the ECB's credibility took a fresh thrashing when the bank shocked the market with a quarter percentage point rate cut. The move was seen as valid in light of slowing European growth, but it bewildered the market by apparently running counter to everything the bank had been saying in recent weeks. 

 "It's almost like a double evil for the euro. When the Fed cuts it's good for the dollar but when the ECB cut it's bad for the euro," said Bernard Tsui, of Union Bank of California. 

 But despite expectations of further dollar gains, the dollar could face a tough hurdle just ahead. 

 Analysts said that in the very near term, the dollar faces a difficult barrier to pierce the 87 cents per euro level, which has underpinned the European common currency for the past 5-1/2 months. 

 "It's not going to be a one-way street for the dollar down to 82 cents," Tsui said, referring to the euro's record lows set last October. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   ANDocument lba0000020010713dx5f002q0  



 HD U.S. stock funds face test with quarterly earnings.    BY By Cal Mankowski    WC690 words   PD15 May 2001   ET22:30   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 Reuters Limited
   LP NEW YORK, May 15 (Reuters) - Investors, encouraged by the Federal Reserve's aggressive rate cuts this year, started putting money back into stock mutual funds in recent weeks, but the next round of quarterly earnings this summer may test their resolve. 

 "Earnings, if anything, should be sideways," said Bob Bissell, president of Wells Capital Management. "Any money that is shifted out of bonds trying to catch a rebound in stocks, may shift back." 
   TD Investors earlier this year steered away from stock funds and began pouring money into bond funds and money markets as stock markets tumbled. 

 Money flowed out of stock mutual funds to the tune of nearly $21 billion in March on top of an outflow of about $3.30 billion in February. Taxable bond funds, meanwhile, took in about $6.9 billion in March, the third straight month of sizable inflows. 

 That turned around in April after the Federal Reserve unexpectedly cut interest rates. Stock mutual funds took in an estimated $11.9 billion in April and could take in another $4.6 billion in May, according to projections from fund tracker TrimTabs.com. 

 The Federal Reserve Tuesday cut U.S. interest rates by half a percentage point, the fifth reduction this year, and signaled it stood ready to do more to reinvigorate the sluggish U.S. economy. 

 The aggressive move brought the federal funds rate, a benchmark for short-term rates throughout the economy, to 4 percent, its lowest in seven years. 

 But the Federal Reserve's rate cuts will take time to work their way through the economy, analysts and fund managers said and that lag could discourage investors from putting more money into stock funds. 

 "Even though the Fed has cut rates dramatically there is a lot of excess built up in the overall economy and we think we're working through that," Mark Cunneen, head of the global small company team for J.& W. Seligman & Co. Inc., with more than $2 billion invested in the asset class. 

 "Earnings reports for the first quarter were horrendous and I think it will be the same in the second quarter," he said. 

 U.S. stock funds fell more than 13 percent in the first quarter for their worst performance in more than two years. The Nasdaq ended the first quarter down 25.51 percent, while the Standard & Poor's 500 Index fell 12.11 percent. 

 "A number of first time buyers or stocks were burned very badly last year, partly from the Nasdaq bubble," said Bob Bloom, chief executive for North America at investment managers Friends, Ivory & Sime. 

 Even so, declining interest rates are an "elixir" that could draw money back into stocks, Bloom said. 

 As rates fall ever lower, bond funds, which have already had a huge run, may run out of room for additional gains. 

 Long-term Treasury bonds, for instance, fell after the Federal Reserve's latest interest rate cut amid fears the aggressive easing cycle might pump up growth and fan inflationary pressures. 

 Money markets and certificates of deposit also could become less compelling investments. Rates on certificates of deposit advertised by New York banks have been dropping for weeks. Citibank was advertising a rate of 3.25 percent on three month CD's Tuesday. That is down from 4.02 percent at the end of March. 

 But much of the money now parked in money markets is there, not because of rates, but as a temporary measure as investors try to decide where to invest. 

 And investors, burned by the bad performance of stock funds earlier this year, may not be so quick to rush back. 

 "Investors in equities and equity funds have been really sensitive to the underlying fundamentals," said Ed Rosenbaum of ESR Global Capital Advisers. "You have to add into the mix that it takes time for people's perceptions to change." 

 "Given the very painful losses that retail investors have had recently you can hardly blame them for wanting to see some strength in equity performance before they begin to commit funds." 
   INi81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles | i8150211 : Unit Trusts/Mutual Funds | iinv : Investing/Securities   NSc31 : Marketing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   ANDocument lba0000020010713dx5f002m5  



 HD Fed cuts rates, ready to do more.    BY By Glenn Somerville    WC887 words   PD16 May 2001   ET00:05   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 Reuters Limited
   LP WASHINGTON, May 15 (Reuters) - The Federal Reserve on Tuesday cut interest rates a half-percentage point, extending a series of steep rate cuts while signaling no end in sight to its campaign to reinvigorate the sluggish U.S. economy. 

 The aggressive move was the fifth straight interest-rate slash this year and brought the federal funds rate, a benchmark for short-term rates throughout the economy, to 4 percent, its lowest level in seven years. 
   TD Most analysts think at least one more rate cut lies ahead - though likely a smaller one than the earlier reductions - as the Fed waits for evidence its forecast of a modest pickup in economic growth in the second half of the year is right. 

 A survey by Reuters of the 25 primary dealers on Wall Street, the big firms that deal directly with the government, found after Tuesday's rate move that 64 percent felt the Fed would lower rates by no more than a quarter-point when its policymaking Federal Open Market Committee next meets in June. 

 Major banks stepped in immediately following the rate-cut news with a round of decreases in prime lending rates. Bank of America and Bank One announced within minutes that they were dropping borrowing rates for their most credit-worthy corporate customers to 7 percent from 7.5 percent, effective Wednesday. 

 The Fed also chopped the largely symbolic discount rate - charged on direct Fed loans to commercial banks - by half a percentage point to 3.5 percent. 

 Share prices see-sawed on the move, firming after the announcement before yielding ground. The Dow Jones industrial average closed down 4.36 points at 10,872.97 while the high tech-laden Nasdaq composite index added 3.66 points to end at 2,085.58. 

 ECONOMY'S LETHARGY WORRISOME 

 Citing worries about falling investment spending and weak corporate profits in a statement announcing its decision, the Fed said it still sees excessive weakness as the main threat to the U.S. economy. 

 The Fed said businesses' efforts to sell off bloated inventories were "well advanced" but profits were squeezed. 

 "The erosion in current and prospective profitability, in combination with considerable uncertainty about the business outlook, seems likely to hold down capital spending going forward," the Fed said in its statement. 

 Analysts said central bank policymakers appeared concerned that a slowdown in the corporate sector could soon affect consumer spending, which fuels two-thirds of national economic activity. 

 "What is keeping us out of recession is the consumer," said economist David Wyss of Standard & Poor's in New York. "There is a risk of a sudden attack of prudence. If people stop living beyond their means, this could turn into a recession." 

 The Fed acknowledged that capital spending would remain under pressure for some time. 

 "This potential restraint, together with the possible effects of earlier reductions in equity wealth on consumption and the risk of slower growth abroad, continues to weigh on the economy," it added. 

 SMALL CHANGE IN WORDING IS SIGNIFICANT 

 Significantly, the Fed dropped the statement that it would "monitor" the economy "closely", words in the two post-meeting releases - those issued on December 19 and on March 20 - that preceded the two intermeeting rate reductions this year. 

 Such intermeeting moves are relatively rate. 

 The Fed last cut rates on April 18 - its second such reduction between regularly scheduled meetings this year - and is next scheduled to meet in a two-day session on June 26-27. 

 Economist David Orr of First Union Corp. in Charlotte, N.C., said the central bank's worry about economic weakness would bring another rate cut next month. 

 "That sentiment, along with the previous strong focus on profits and capital spending, indicates that the Fed is ready to cut rates again by 50 basis points (a half-percentage point) on June 27 if the business climate and labor markets do not show substantial improvement by then," Orr said. 

 The U.S. central bank saw little risk of inflation, which in other circumstances might prevent it from lowering rates. 

 "With pressures on labor and product markets easing, inflation is expected to remain contained," the Fed statement said. 

 The series of five rapid-fire half-percentage-point rate reductions so far this year marks the most aggressive rate-cutting action the Fed has undertaken since Alan Greenspan took over as chairman in 1987. 

 While the U.S. central bank trimmed rates steadily over a longer period in the early 1990s as the economy entered and then recovered from a brief nine-month recession in 1990-91, most of the rate changes were in smaller increments. 

 With the economy now in a record 11th year of unbroken expansion, the Fed's actions this year highlight its determination to do whatever it must to keep the current slowdown from skidding into a recession, usually defined as two straight quarters of contraction in national output. 

 Jerry Jasinowski, president of the National Association of Manufacturers, praised the Fed's rate-cutting zeal that he said laid the basis for a second-half bounce in economic activity. 

 "The main impact of this decision is that both business and household balance sheets will improve over the next few months due to lower debt service costs," Jasinowski said. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States | usdc : Washington DC   ANDocument lba0000020010713dx5f002k2  



 HD Euro gains ground ahead of US rates decision    WC587 words   PD15 May 2001   SNAgence France-Presse   SCAFPR   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright 2001) 
   CX ATTENTION - ADDS cross rates 
   LP LONDON, May 15 (AFP) - Investors pushed the euro slightly higher Tuesday as they sweated over the size of a widely-expected cut in US interest rates by the US Federal Reserve. 

 European share markets also struggled to make headway ahead of the US decision, expected imminently. 
   TD The euro edged up to 0.8786 dollars in late trade from 0.8739 in New York late on Monday. The dollar meanwhile eased to 123.28 yen from 123.30 over the same period. 

 Dealers were beginning to fear that the Federal Open Markets Committee (FOMC) may cut interest rates by just a quarter of a percentage point rather than the expected half percentage point, traders said. 

 "People are getting nervous ahead of the FOMC meeting as the cut may come in at 25 instead of 50 basis points, which would be bad for the dollar," said Jeremy Hawkins, chief economist for Europe at Bank of America. 

 "Will the Fed maintain their easing bias? Or will they move to a neutral stance?," he asked. 

 The US Federal Reserve has reduced rates on four occasions this year, each time by half a point, to stand at just 4.5 percent. 

 The dramatic US easing stands in stark contrast to the policy of the European Central Bank, which only moved last week after months of pressure, bringing its key interest rate down to 4.50 percent from 4.75 percent. 

 The argument for a US cut is still strong, analysts say. 

 US economic momentum slowed to one percent in the fourth quarter last year before reviving slightly in the first quarter of 2001 to an initially estimated two percent. 

 But prospects for a strong rebound before the end of this year  or early next are clouded at best. 

 Uncertainty over the US decision also stalked European share markets. 

 In late Frankfurt trade, where the DAX was at 6,073.44, up 8.76 points or just 0.1 percent, brokers warned that a US cut of just a quarter percentage point could deal a heavy blow to sentiment. 

 "I think the market would react positively to 50, at least in  the short term," one dealer said. 

 "If it is less, the prospects will be pretty gloomy and the market could break this support level that lies between 6,000-6,030 points," he added. 

 "However, as ever, the rate decision will only have a short term effect. At the moment there is no ground for serious euphoria that things are going to get much better." 

 Elsewhere on the European markets, London's FTSE 100 index climbed 152.4 points to close at 5,842.9 and Paris' CAC-40 index rose 56.41 points to finish at 5,544.13. 

 The euro traded at 0.8786 dollars against 0.8739 dollars Monday evening in New York, 108.28 yen against 107.74 yen, 0.6175 pounds against 0.6157 and 1.5322 Swiss francs against 1.5312. 

 The dollar was going for 123.28 yen against 123.30 yen in New York on Monday evening and 1.7443 Swiss francs against 1.7517. 

 The pound was exchanged for 1.4230 dollars against 1.4198 in New York late Monday, 175.43 yen against 175.05 and 2.4823 Swiss francs against 2.4872. 

 The price of an ounce of gold eased to 266.60 dollars from  268.35 dollars the previous day on the London Bullion Market. 

 burs/djw/jmy 
   COeuro : EURO   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REeur :  | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | usa : United States   IPDInternational | SEQN: 0740   ANDocument afpr000020010709dx5f033dc  



 HD Euro gains ground ahead of US rates decision    WC502 words   PD15 May 2001   SNAgence France-Presse   SCAFPR   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright 2001) 
   CX ATTENTION - CORRECTS dollar-yen New York rate in para three 
   LP LONDON, May 15 (AFP) - Investors pushed the euro slightly higher Tuesday as they sweated over the size of a widely-expected cut in US interest rates by the US Federal Reserve. 

 European share markets also struggled to make headway ahead of the US decision, expected imminently. 
   TD The euro edged up to 0.8786 dollars in late trade from 0.8739 in New York late on Monday. The dollar meanwhile eased to 123.28 yen from 123.30 over the same period. 

 Dealers were beginning to fear that the Federal Open Markets Committee (FOMC) may cut interest rates by just a quarter of a percentage point rather than the expected half percentage point, traders said. 

 "People are getting nervous ahead of the FOMC meeting as the cut may come in at 25 instead of 50 basis points, which would be bad for the dollar," said Jeremy Hawkins, chief economist for Europe at Bank of America. 

 "Will the Fed maintain their easing bias? Or will they move to a neutral stance?," he asked. 

 The US Federal Reserve has reduced rates on four occasions this year, each time by half a point, to stand at just 4.5 percent. 

 The dramatic US easing stands in stark contrast to the policy of the European Central Bank, which only moved last week after months of pressure, bringing its key interest rate down to 4.50 percent from 4.75 percent. 

 The argument for a US cut is still strong, analysts say. 

 US economic momentum slowed to one percent in the fourth quarter last year before reviving slightly in the first quarter of 2001 to an initially estimated two percent. 

 But prospects for a strong rebound before the end of this year  or early next are clouded at best. 

 Uncertainty over the US decision also stalked European share markets. 

 In late Frankfurt trade, where the DAX was at 6,073.44, up 8.76 points or just 0.1 percent, brokers warned that a US cut of just a quarter percentage point could deal a heavy blow to sentiment. 

 "I think the market would react positively to 50, at least in  the short term," one dealer said. 

 "However if it is less the prospects will be pretty gloomy and the market could break this support level that lies between  6,000- 6,030 points," he added. 

 "However, as ever, the rate decision will only have a short term effect. At the moment there is no ground for serious euphoria that things are going to get much better." 

 Elsewhere on the European markets, London's FTSE 100 index climbed 152.4 points to close at 5,842.9 and Paris' CAC-40 index rose 56.41 points to finish at 5,544.13. 

 Asia was also in wait-and-see mode, with Tokyo share prices  eking out a 0.1-percent gain and the Hong Kong market little  changed. 

 burs/djw 
   COeuro : EURO   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REeur :  | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | usa : United States   IPDInternational | SEQN: 0718   ANDocument afpr000020010709dx5f033a8  



 HD Euro gains ground ahead of US rates decision    WC496 words   PD15 May 2001   SNAgence France-Presse   SCAFPR   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright 2001) 
   CX ATTENTION - RECASTS, UPDATES rates 
   LP LONDON, May 15 (AFP) - Investors pushed the euro slightly higher Tuesday as they sweated over the size of a widely-expected cut in US interest rates by the US Federal Reserve. 

 European share markets also struggled to make headway ahead of the US decision, expected imminently. 
   TD The euro edged up to 0.8786 dollars in late trade from 0.8739 in New York late on Monday. The dollar meanwhile eased to 123.28 yen from 123.54 over the same period. 

 Dealers were beginning to fear that the Federal Open Markets Committee (FOMC) may cut interest rates by just a quarter of a percentage point rather than the expected half percentage point, traders said. 

 "People are getting nervous ahead of the FOMC meeting as the cut may come in at 25 instead of 50 basis points, which would be bad for the dollar," said Jeremy Hawkins, chief economist for Europe at Bank of America. 

 "Will the Fed maintain their easing bias? Or will they move to a neutral stance?," he asked. 

 The US Federal Reserve has reduced rates on four occasions this year, each time by half a point, to stand at just 4.5 percent. 

 The dramatic US easing stands in stark contrast to the policy of the European Central Bank, which only moved last week after months of pressure, bringing its key interest rate down to 4.50 percent from 4.75 percent. 

 The argument for a US cut is still strong, analysts say. 

 US economic momentum slowed to one percent in the fourth quarter last year before reviving slightly in the first quarter of 2001 to an initially estimated two percent. 

 But prospects for a strong rebound before the end of this year  or early next are clouded at best. 

 Uncertainty over the US decision also stalked European share markets. 

 In late Frankfurt trade, where the DAX was at 6,073.44, up 8.76 points or just 0.1 percent, brokers warned that a US cut of just a quarter percentage point could deal a heavy blow to sentiment. 

 "I think the market would react positively to 50, at least in  the short term," one dealer said. 

 "However if it is less the prospects will be pretty gloomy and the market could break this support level that lies between  6,000- 6,030 points," he added. 

 "However, as ever, the rate decision will only have a short term effect. At the moment there is no ground for serious euphoria that things are going to get much better." 

 Elsewhere on the European markets, London's FTSE 100 index climbed 152.4 points to close at 5,842.9 and Paris' CAC-40 index rose 56.41 points to finish at 5,544.13. 

 Asia was also in wait-and-see mode, with Tokyo share prices  eking out a 0.1-percent gain and the Hong Kong market little  changed. 

 burs/djw 
   COeuro : EURO   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REeur :  | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | usa : United States   IPDInternational | SEQN: 0700   ANDocument afpr000020010709dx5f0337k  



 HDCURRENCIES &MONEY - Fed rate decision.   BYBy CHRISTOPHER SWANN.    WC296 words   PD14 May 2001   SNFinancial Times   SCFTFT   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPThe main focus of attention in the foreign exchange market this week will be US interest rates.

Until the end of last week traders confidently expected the Federal Reserve would cut interest rates by a full 50 basis points. However, this confidence was shaken at the end of last week by strong consumer data.
   TDRetail sales rose an unexpectedly strong 0.8 per cent in April. Since US retail sales are measured by volume rather than price, the figure was flattered by a steep rise in gasoline prices.

Traders also said that a modest rise in mortgage rates might dampen figures over coming months. Nevertheless the figures were considerably better than had been expected.

In addition, the University of Michigan consumer sentiment index registered an unexpected rise.

Both pieces of data are likely to provide ammunition to those on the federal open market committee who favour a more modest cut.

The impact on the dollar is difficult to predict. However, many traders think that a 50 basis point cut would now supportive for the currency.

"A week ago a 50 basis point cut was fully factored in by the market and would have provided little help for the dollar," said Chris Furness, senior currency strategist at economic consultancy 4Cast. "Now it would be a mild surprise and would promote the idea the Fed is beginning to be proactive."

This could also be a crucial week for the euro. Traders gave a negative response at the end of last week to the 25 basis point interest rate cut announced by the European Central Bank.

Although many traders had long urged such action, they were angered by the contradiction between recent ECB rhetoric and an easing of monetary policy. 
   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPCMarkets | Market'sp'News | Foreign'sp'Exchange'sp'Markets | Market'sp'Reports | United'sp'States'sp'of'sp'America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument ftft000020010715dx5e000lt  



 HD Fed Officials Mix Hope and Anxiety Ahead of Tues FOMC Meeting.    WC1,349 words   PD14 May 2001   ET20:09   SNMarket News International   SCMARNEW   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001. Market News International, Inc.
   LP - Officials Draw Hope From Solid Consumer Spending But Still Wary of Downside Risks 

 By Steven K. Beckner 
   TD Market News International - A mixture of hope and anxiety characterized the comments of Federal Reserve officials ahead of Tuesday's Federal Open Market Committee meeting, leaving the size of the FOMC's presumed interest rate cut in doubt. 

 But on four previous occasions, anxiety has swung the balance in favor of a 50 basis point rate cut. 

 The widespread expectation is that the Fed's policymaking body will again decide to cut rates 50 basis points. The FOMC outcome is not predetermined, and there is some sentiment for moving to a more incremental easing approach. 

 But whether there is sufficient such sentiment is, like the economic outlook, highly uncertain. There have been mixed signals from the Fed. 

 In recent conversations, officials have been very careful not to telegraph the size of the Fed's next move. A few took a bemused attitude toward "what the markets expect us to do." 

 As Market News International reported last week ahead of the April retail sales release, Fed officials derived some encouragement from the stronger than expected 3.8% rise in same store sales last month and from the 41,000 plunge in initial unemployment insurance claims to 384,000 in the week of May 5. 

 Officials were equally pleased when the Commerce Department confirmed a rebound in April retail sales - a bigger than anticipated 0.8% rise whose strength was partially moderated by downward revisions to February and March. 

 The recovery of the University of Michigan's index of consumer confidence was viewed as yet another positive sign. 

 "Not too shabby" is how one high-ranking Fed official described last month's numbers on consumer spending. 

 "As long as consumers have cash they'll spend, and when they run out of cash they put it on their credit cards," the official added. Asked whether he was concerned that the high level of consumer debt would curtail spending, the official observed that loan delinquencies have been "not bad." 

 The official expressed hope that, by staying positive, consumer spending "gives us a breather" until Fed rate cuts and, to a lesser extent, tax cuts, "kick in" and stimulate demand and until "business wakes up." 

 "You can construct a pretty good scenario," the official said, adding that the odds are growing that the U.S. will not suffer even one quarter of negative GDP growth. 

 Similarly hopeful comments came from three other Fed sources. Officials have also cheered the relative strength of auto and housing sales. But none of them gave any indication that the outlook is so much improved as to negate the need for further Fed easing. 

 On the contrary, as one senior official confided recently, official expressions of optimism assume a certain amount of continued easing. 

 Moreover, along with a degree of hope, Fed officials have continued to voice strong concern about the "downside risks" that continue to threaten the economy. 

 Last week's more positive numbers were preceded by a string of quite negative ones, including one of the gloomiest employment reports in years. Unemployment rose a further 0.2% in April to 4.5%, as non-farm payrolls plunged by 223,000 and hours worked dropped 0.3%. The payroll decline was the largest since February 1991, during the last recession. 

 And 24 hours ahead of the FOMC meeting, the Fed itself reported that output by the nation's factories, mines and utilities fell 0.3% in April. Not only was that a bit worse than expected, but March output, previously reported to have risen, was revised to show a decline. 

 Within the manufacturing sector, the one area of relative strength was production of motor vehicles and parts, which was unchanged. But production of many other goods was down. 

 Capacity utilization fell another 0.4% to 78.2%, lowest since April 1991, as firms curtailed output while they cleared unsold goods from their shelves. 

 Business inventories fell 0.3% in March, confirming the Fed's belief that the inventory adjustment process is "well underway," but outside of the auto sector, officials say the inventory adjustment has some distance to run. 

 When the Labor Department announced early last week that unit labor costs rose 5.2% in the first quarter, there was talk that this might make the Fed worry about inflation pressures, but that was not the predominant Fed reaction. Fed sources say the greater concern for the time being is the fact hours worked outpaced production to send productivity down 0.1%. 

 That could be taken, sources say, as one more warning sign that firms will continue to trim payrolls and hours worked to bring production in line with sales and protect profit margins. If, as a result, unemployment continues to climb, consumer demand could slacken and dim the economic outlook, they say. 

 The economy also seems likely to continue suffering from an energy "shock" of uncertain dimensions that will tend to partially offset monetary and fiscal stimulus, officials point out. 

 It might be supposed that the rapid growth of the money supply might prompt at least some Fed policymakers to fear that the Fed is overdoing it and pumping so much liquidity into the economy that it is inviting an inflation problem down the road once the economy recovers. 

 But while there is some such concern, it tends to be tentative at this point, and even monetarist-oriented officials say they are not convinced the explosion of the monetary aggregates since the start of the year is a lasting phenomenon. 

 Were it to be sustained, it would become a mounting concern, sources say, but for now, it is not a major issue. 

 In each of the last two reporting weeks, M2 money supply has fallen, dropping $16 billion in the final week of April. But its annual growth rate relative to the fourth quarter of 2000 remains above 10%. 

 For now, the major issue for the Fed remains countering economic weakness and doing whatever it takes to preempt recession - even if it means some overshooting. 

 The Fed has already eased 200 basis points since the beginning of the year, taking the federal funds rate from 6.5% to 4.5%. But relative to the 2.7% core rate of increase in the PCE deflator, that's still a real rate of 1.8% - fairly high for a period of growth far below what the Fed believes to be the economy's potential. 

 There is every indication that the Fed is willing take the federal funds to 4% or even lower if necessary. The question is one of timing. 

 The FOMC members will probably be asking whether the benefits of easing another 50 basis points outweigh the costs. Or, to put it differently, they might ask themselves whether the costs of cutting rates only 25 basis points, in face of market expectations for 50, might outweigh the benefits. 

 The FOMC members will also likely be asking themselves how much has changed since they unexpectedly cut rates by 50 basis points between FOMC meetings on April 18. The Fed explained that action in stark terms. 

 While taking note of "a significant reduction in excess inventories" and saying "consumption and housing expenditures have held up reasonably well," the rate cut announcement went on in a much more negative vein: 

 "Nonetheless, capital investment has continued to soften and the persistent erosion in current and expected profitability, in combination with rising uncertainty about the business outlook, seems poised to dampen capital spending going forward. This potential restraint, together with the possible effects of earlier reductions in equity wealth on consumption and the risk of slower growth abroad, threatens to keep the pace of economic activity unacceptably weak," the FOMC said in the statement. 

 While there have been some signs of improvement since then, there have also been some signs of ongoing deterioration. The Fed's proclivity has been to err on the side of protecting the economy from the latter. 

 [TOPICS: MNSFED,MMUFE$,MX 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   ANDocument marnew0020010713dx5e00jek  



 HD UPDATE 1-Fed seen cutting US interest rates half-point Tues.    BY By Barbara Hagenbaugh    WC846 words   PD14 May 2001   ET21:07   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 Reuters Limited
   LP WASHINGTON, May 14 (Reuters) - The Federal Reserve meets on Tuesday amid widespread expectations it will aggressively cut U.S. interest rates by a half-percentage point for the fifth time this year to lift the shaky economy on to solid ground. 

 But analysts said such a move by the U.S. central bank this week may be the last large cut for some time as its policy-makers step back and watch how their rate-cutting campaign will impact the world's richest economy. 
   TD "I think they've got to at some point say 'now we're going to wait for our previous rate actions to hit the market, to have an impact on real activity'," Brown Brothers Harriman senior economist Lara Rhame said. 

 "There is a limit to where the Fed can go," she said. "There is a limit and I think we're close to that." 

 Responding to a dramatic slowdown in the U.S. economy, the central bank has cut interest rates by 2 percentage points this year, bringing the federal funds rate - the key interest rate that influences the cost of borrowing money for everything from cars to refrigerators - to 4.5 percent. 

 If the Fed cuts interest rates by another half-percentage point on Tuesday, the federal funds rate will hit its lowest level in seven years. 

 There is little doubt the Fed will do just that. In a Reuters poll taken on Friday, all but one of the 25 primary dealers of government securities, firms that trade directly with the Fed in money markets, said they expected a half-point cut on Tuesday. One firm predicted a quarter-point cut. 

 The Fed is expected to announce the outcome of its meeting at around 2:15 p.m. (1815 GMT) on Tuesday. 

 WAIT AND SEE 

 Analysts said the main factor that will prompt the Fed to go for the more aggressive half-point cut is the deteriorating employment situation. 

 Earlier this month, the government reported that U.S. payroll employment excluding the farm sector plunged 223,000 in April after 53,000 job losses in March. The unemployment rate rose to 4.5 percent from 4.3 percent, bringing it to its highest level in 2-1/2 years. 

 But other indicators have suggested that the Fed's moves to bolster the economy may be working. 

 The Commerce Department reported on Friday that sales at retail stores grew a hefty 0.8 percent last month after falling in February and March. The report suggested consumers may be reopening their wallets, a key move since consumer spending accounts for two-thirds of U.S. economic activity. 

 And according to government statistics, the economy grew at a 2 percent annual rate in the first three months of this year, doubling the 1 percent measured in the final quarter of 2000. The report suggested the U.S. economy was not heading into a recession as many had feared. A recession is commonly described as two straight quarters of contraction. 

 The positive news has led some analysts to think that after Tuesday, the Fed may pause. It is widely believed that Fed moves operate with a lag, so central bankers may want to wait a while to see if they have done enough. 

 "This may be the last for a while," Economics from Washington president Douglas Lee said. 

 INFLATION? 

 Lee said part of the reason the Fed may pause is there have been some signs that inflation may be rising. If the Fed cuts rates too far, they will have a tougher time fighting inflation, which usually requires an increase in rates. 

 "There is some growing concern that we may have a little bit more of an inflation problem than people expected," Lee said. "I don't think the Fed wants to turn around and raise interest rates fairly soon." 

 Some analysts said they expected the Fed to temper the language in the statement it issues after the meeting. They expected the statement to soften expectations for future aggressive rate cuts so investors, who have become accustomed to a steady stream of Fed moves, will not be disappointed if the central bank sits on the sidelines. 

 Many expect the Fed will ditch the wording that it will "monitor" the economy "closely," which appeared in the statements following the March 20 and December 19 meetings. 

 That wording was seen as a signal the Fed was poised to take the rare step of cutting rates in between regular meetings, which it did within weeks after both those statements were released. 

 "The one thing I don't think they will put in there is this language about monitoring closely," PNC financial services group chief economist Stuart Hoffman said. 

 After Tuesday, the Fed next meets on June 26 and 27. Of the 25 primary dealers polled by Reuters on Friday, 18 said they expected another rate cut in June while five predicted the Fed will keep rates steady and two declined to make a call. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   ANDocument lba0000020010713dx5e0051o  



 HD Federal Reserve  seen delivering half-point cut Tues.    BY By Barbara Hagenbaugh    WC697 words   PD14 May 2001   ET16:40   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 Reuters Limited
   LP WASHINGTON, May 14 (Reuters) - The Federal Reserve meets on Tuesday amid widespread expectations it will aggressively cut U.S. interest rates by a half-percentage point for the fifth time this year to lift the shaky economy on to solid ground. 

 But analysts said such a move by the U.S. central bank this week may be the last large cut for some time as its policy-makers step back and watch how their rate-cutting campaign will impact the world's richest economy. 
   TD "I think they've got to at some point say 'now we're going to wait for our previous rate actions to hit the market, to have an impact on real activity'," Brown Brothers Harriman senior economist Lara Rhame said. 

 "There is a limit to where the Fed can go," she said. "There is a limit and I think we're close to that." 

 Responding to a dramatic slowdown in the U.S. economy, the central bank has cut interest rates by 2 percentage points this year, bringing the federal funds rate - the key interest rate that influences the cost of borrowing money for everything from cars to refrigerators - to 4.5 percent. 

 If the Fed cuts interest rates by another half-percentage point on Tuesday, the federal funds rate will hit the lowest level in seven years. 

 There is little doubt the Fed will do just that. In a Reuters poll taken on Friday, all but one of the 25 primary dealers of government securities, firms that trade directly with the Fed in money markets, said they expected a half-point cut on Tuesday. One firm predicted a quarter-point cut. 

 The Fed is expected to announce the outcome of its meeting at around 2:15 p.m. (1815 GMT) on Tuesday. 

 WAIT AND SEE 

 Analysts said the main factor that will prompt the Fed to go for the more aggressive half-point cut is the deteriorating employment situation. 

 Earlier this month, the government reported that U.S. payroll employment excluding the farm sector plunged 223,000 in April after 53,000 job losses in March. The unemployment rate rose to 4.5 percent from 4.3 percent, bringing it to its highest level in 2-1/2 years. 

 But other indicators have suggested that the Fed's moves to bolster the economy may be working. 

 The Commerce Department reported on Friday that sales at retail stores grew a hefty 0.8 percent last month after falling in February and March. The report suggested consumers may be reopening their wallets, a key move since consumer spending accounts for two-thirds of U.S. economic activity. 

 And according to government statistics, the economy grew at a 2 percent annual rate in the first three months of this year, doubling the 1 percent measured in the final quarter of 2000. The report suggested the U.S. economy was not heading into a recession as many had feared. A recession is commonly described as two straight quarters of contraction. 

 The positive news has led some analysts to think that after Tuesday, the Fed may pause. It is widely believed that Fed moves operate with a lag, so central bankers may want to wait a while to see if they have done enough. 

 "This may be the last for a while," Economics from Washington president Douglas Lee said. 

 Lee said part of the reason the Fed may pause is there have been some signs that inflation may be rising. If the Fed cuts rates too far, they will have a tougher time fighting inflation, which usually requires an increase in rates. 

 "There is some growing concern that we may have a little bit more of an inflation problem than people expected," Lee said. "I don't think the Fed wants to turn around and raise interest rates fairly soon." 

 After Tuesday, the Fed next meets on June 26 and 27. Of the 25 primary dealers polled by Reuters on Friday, 18 said they expected another rate cut in June while five predicted the Fed will keep rates steady and two declined to make a call. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States | usdc : Washington DC   ANDocument lba0000020010713dx5e0049n  



 HD Dollar steady against major currencies in Tokyo trade    WC380 words   PD14 May 2001   SNAgence France-Presse   SCAFPR   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright 2001) 
   LP TOKYO, May 14 (AFP) - The dollar was steady against the yen and the euro in Tokyo Monday as better-than-expected US economic figures lowered the prospect of a rate cut by the Federal Reserve in their meeting Tuesday, dealers said. 

 The greenback traded at 122.47-49 yen at 11:00 am (0200 GMT), up from 122.43 yen in New York and compared to 122.60-63 yen in Tokyo late Friday. 
   TD It was quoted at 0.8749 to the euro, up from 0.8764 dollars in New York and 0.8797-0.8800 dollars in Tokyo Friday afternoon. 

 "Investors sold the euro and bought the dollar as  better-than- expected US sales figures reduced investors'  expectations of an interest rate cut in the range of 0.50 points to  0.25 points at the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC)" to be  convened Tuesday, said Mitsubishi Trust and Banking dealer Toshihiko  Sakai. 

 "While the euro-zone cut rates, the rate cut in the United  States will be small, so the interest rate gap between the two will  shrink more than expected," which caused the dollar-buying, Sakai  said. 

 US retail sales were up 0.8 percent in April, the Commerce Department announced Friday. 

 The report was much stronger than expected, since Wall Street economists had earlier predicted retail sales would only rise 0.1 percent in April. 

 A rise in a consumer confidence index from the University of Michigan also suggested the US economy was not as weak as many had thought. 

 "The figures reduced investors' expectations for the FOMC to cut rates," agreed Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi dealer Takeshi Iba. 

 "Investors bought back the dollar as the US economy turned out  to be better than previously thought, even though it is slowing  down," Iba said. 

 Yen buying had been prevalent from April to the begining of May as investors expected Japan's newly-elect Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi to implement structural reforms, Iba said. 

 "But the market cooled down due to the lack of any fresh leads" to buy the Japanese currency, Iba said. 

 Against the yen, the euro bought 107.14, down from 107.33 in New York and 107.89 in Tokyo late Friday. 

 tfu/dmh/lb 
   COmitfin : Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Inc.   INi814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REasiaz : Asia | easiaz : Eastern Asia | jap : Japan | namz : North America | usa : United States   IPDFood | SEQN: 0050 | Iba, Takeshi   ANDocument afpr000020010709dx5e02xsw  
 Page 1 of 1      2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.


 

 Page 1      2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.

