 


 HD Home buyers shouldn't wait for Fed - St. Louis Fed.    WC337 words   PD22 August 2001   ET18:08   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 Reuters Limited
   LP WASHINGTON, Aug 22 (Reuters) - Americans planning to buy a home or refinance mortgages should not wait for Federal Reserve interest rate moves before signing on the dotted line, a St. Louis Fed economist said in a recently released commentary. 

 Economist Michael Owyang said U.S. monetary policy has little, if any, direct impact on long-term rates, which include mortgage costs. Instead, those long-term rates are influenced by inflation expectations, market anticipation of future Fed moves and premiums attached to longer-term securities. 
   TD "The moral of the story is that the Fed has no direct control over long rates," Owyang wrote in the St. Louis Fed's September edition of its "Monetary Trends" publication. 

 "Therefore, waiting for the Fed to cut interest rates before buying or refinancing a home or engaging in any other long-term debt contract might be misguided, since financing for long-term investments can suffer the whims of inflationary expectations," he said. 

 Owyang noted that although long-term rates fell when the Fed began its rate-cutting campaign early this year, they later rose even as the U.S. central bank continued to slice rates. 

 The Fed has lowered interest rates seven times this year - with the first move in January and the most recent on Tuesday - to boost the struggling U.S. economy. In all, it has cut the key fed funds rate by 3 percentage points this year, bringing it to 3.5 percent, its lowest level in over seven years. 

 Owyang said a rise in 10-year Treasury note yields this year could be explained by increasing expectations that inflation will rise in the future. 

 Interestingly, rising inflationary expectations can be fed by actions by the Federal Reserve itself. Some market participants may see Fed rate cuts as leading to a greater risk of higher inflation in the future. 

 "Easier monetary policy lowers short-term rates now, often at the expense of higher prices in the future," Owyang wrote. 
   INi85 : Real Estate Transactions | i8500031 : Residential Property Dealing/Owning | icre : Construction/Real Estate   NSc31 : Marketing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States | usdc : Washington DC | uss : Southern U.S.   ANDocument lba0000020010822dx8m04sdo  



 HD ANALYSTS' VIEW-Europe reacts to Fed rate cut.    WC698 words   PD22 August 2001   ET09:17   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 Reuters Limited
   LP LONDON, Aug 22 (Reuters) - Following are European analysts' reactions on Wednesday to the U.S. Federal Reserve's 25 basis point cut in its key interest rates on Tuesday. 

 In its seventh reduction this year, the Fed reduced rates to their lowest level since 1994 and indicated it was poised to do more to counteract weakness at home and abroad. 
   TD GRAHAM McDEVEITT, HEAD OF FIXED INCOME STRATEGY, ABN AMRO 

 Everything was as expected, so it was...neutral, but subsequently equity markets have taken a tumble...(which) was not unexpected in the sense that a 25 basis point cut was not going to sort out the problems of companies which are being squeezed by earnings reality and profit concerns going forward. 

 That was the thing that caused bonds to close firm and that's why Europe is opening firmer this morning, but essentially the news was completely as expected. The market's got a discount that the Fed is going to cut again in October...and will be waiting to see the data next week to see whether the weakness in the conomy is persisting to validate another cut. 

 All things being equal it was a non-event but the reality is that bonds are supported...because equities are still under pressure, which is sending a signal that the economy is not out of its problems yet. Europe is just following that price action. 

 GARY JENKINS, GLOBAL HEAD OF CREDIT RESEARCH, BARCLAYS CAPITAL. 

 It was very expected so I don't expect it to have a huge impact on credit today. There was a bit of disappontment late last night in the U.S. with the outlook being perhaps worse for the economy than people were hoping... maybe they were hoping for a more positive tone from Greenspan. That seems to have disappointed the equity market, which could have a knock-on effect in the sense that people expect further credit deterioration for longer... maybe it's going to get worse before it stabilises. 

 STEVEN PEARSON, RESEARCH ANALYST, HALIFAX GROUP TREASURY, LONDON 

 "European bonds opened higher on the back of the U.S. rally which followed the Fed decsision. That will probably be sustained by European data due today and expected to be bond friendly. 

 The Fed's decision shouldn't alter ECB thinking a great deal because it was so widely expected and the comments in the statement about U.S. growth outlook won't surprise the ECB either. I think it's a timing call now for the ECB, from the recent monthly bulletin it's clear they are looking at moving rates lower to offset some of the uncertainty over euro zone growth, it's just a case of when. 

 IAN STANNARD, CURRENCY ANALYST, BNP PARIBAS, LONDON "The market was fully pricing in a 25 basis point cut, so reaction was not enormous. The statement was similar to the previous statement, but the Fed put a more positive spin on consumption. From this, the market may start to deduce that the pace of interest rate cuts may be slowing." 

 AUDREY CHILDE-FREEMAN, EUROPEAN ECONOMIST, CIBC WORLD MARKETS: 

 "The initial reaction to the Fed rate cut has been seen on the stock market. It was widely expected and the Fed kept its easing bias, also expected. The rate cut was a non-event and not enough to change the near-term economic outlook or change sentiment towards the stock market or dollar." 

 LORENZO CODOGNO, HEAD OF ECONOMICS, BANK OF AMERICA 

 The decision was exactly as we expected so the negative (stock) reaction was perhaps surprising. I think what we have seen in the bond markets had more to do with the sell off in equities that followed the announcement. 

 I think maybe stock markets had to go down anyway and took the opportunity to do that. 

 I don't think the Fed's decision will effect the ECB's thinking because they are focussing on their own variables and it won't make a difference to the decision we're expecting next week. I think European stocks will continue the downtrend today and European bonds will gain from that. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nedc : Commentary/Opinion   REeurz : Europe | namz : North America | uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | weurz : Western Europe   ANDocument lba0000020010822dx8m0341u  



 CLMTuesday's Markets   HD Stocks Fall Sharply on Fed's Gloomy Outlook    BY By Gregory Zuckerman    CRStaff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal   WC832 words   PD22 August 2001   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGC1   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 2001, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)
   CX Corrections & Amplifications 

 THE NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX closed Tuesday at its lowest level since April 9. An article on yesterday's Money & Investing page incorrectly said the close was the lowest level for the Nasdaq since March 29. (WSJ Aug. 23, 2001) 
   LP Stocks fell sharply after the Federal Reserve cut interest rates, as investors focused on a Fed statement suggesting that the economy will continue to be weak. 

 After trading higher for most of the day, market indexes began falling almost immediately after the Fed announcement. The Nasdaq Composite Index tumbled 2.66%, or 50.05 points, to 1831.30, its lowest level since March 29. The Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 1.41%, or 145.93 points, to 10174.14, its worst level since April 16. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index dropped 1.21%, or 14.15 points, to 1157.26. 
   TD Bonds rose and the dollar fell. 

 The stock-market drops, which came even though the Fed's move was in line with Wall Street expectations, reflect a frustration among investors that the current economic slump may be nowhere near a turnaround. 

 "It was the most bearish commentary the market could have received, the worst-case scenario," said Bill Schneider, head of stock trading at UBS Warburg. "The market has been grasping at straws for evidence of a recovery," but the Fed was "blunt and pessimistic." 

 The move reduces the Fed's key short-term interest rate, the federal-funds rate, to 3.50% from 3.75%. It was the seventh rate cut this year by the Fed, which is trying hard to spark the slumping U.S. economy. The Fed also cut its largely symbolic discount rate by 0.25 percentage point to 3.50%. 

 Traders parsed through the Fed's statement looking for an indication of better things ahead for the U.S. economy. They didn't come up with much. While the Fed spoke of how "household demand has been sustained," it retained its "bias" toward cutting rates, saying the economy's risks are balanced toward economic weakness "for the foreseeable future." The Fed spoke of slowing growth abroad, sparking fears of a global slowdown. 

 Yesterday, stocks were up before the rate decision was announced at about 2:15 p.m. EDT, with the Dow Jones industrials ahead by more than 45 points, and the Nasdaq up almost 10 points. But the market edged into negative territory minutes after the Fed's move, and continued moving lower throughout the afternoon, finishing near the day's lows. 

 While rate cuts usually give stocks a push, they have done nothing for the market so far this year. The Fed has cut rates seven times this year, but stocks managed only two same-day rallies, on the heels of surprise rate moves on Jan. 3 and April 18. 

 The industrial average has dropped 5.68% this year, while the S&P 500 is down 12.35% and the Nasdaq is off 25.87%. 

 "People have seen enough rate cuts to be more concerned about the economy and what it's doing, and the fact that the Fed was cautious about the outlook for the economy was more important than the rate cut," said Rob Cohen, a senior trader at Credit Suisse First Boston. "Until we get news from corporations that things are getting better, we won't see much of a sustainable rally." 

 Bullish analysts urged patience, maintaining that the Fed's medicine will eventually cure the economy's ills. If the previous moves don't work, the Fed will cut rates even lower in the months ahead. 

 "We are still of the opinion that the Fed has room for additional rate cuts later this year, especially in light of an extremely low inflation environment that permits the Fed to maintain its aggressive stance," said Stuart Freeman, chief equity strategist at A.G. Edwards & Sons Inc. "We believe we are on the verge of a more bullish environment that should take the Dow to the 13,000 area during 2002." 

 Outside the U.S., stocks rose in dollar terms. The Dow Jones World Stock Index, excluding U.S. stocks, climbed 1.14%, or 1.49, to 132.20. 

 In major U.S. market action: 

 Major stock indexes fell. On the Big Board, where 1.029 billion shares traded, 1,334 stocks rose while 1,755 stocks declined. 

 Bonds rose. The 10-year Treasury note climbed 11/32, or $3.438 for each $1,000 note, at 101 4/32, and a yield of 4.856%. The 30-year Treasury bond rose 11/32 at 99 6/32, its yield at 5.430%. 

 The dollar fell. Late in New York, it traded at 91.70 cents to the euro and 119.59 yen to the dollar, down from 91.42 cents and 120.70 yen. 
   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m11 : Equity Markets | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | ncrx : Corrected Items | npag : Page-One Story | nsum : News Digest   REasiaz : Asia | easiaz : Eastern Asia | jap : Japan | namz : North America | usa : United States   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument j000000020010822dx8m0008b  



 SE Economy    HD Fed Cuts Rates to Lowest Level Since '94 --- Quarter-Point Reduction Tied to Slump Overseas, Weak Business Climate    BY By Greg Ip    CRStaff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal   WC969 words   PD22 August 2001   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGA2   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 2001, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)
   LP WASHINGTON -- The Federal Reserve, citing continued weakness in business investment and profits and slowing growth abroad, cut interest rates by a quarter of a percentage point to their lowest level since 1994. 

 The cut, the Fed's seventh this year, lowered the federal-funds rate, charged on overnight loans between banks, to 3.5% from 3.75%. The Fed also cut its largely symbolic discount rate to 3% from 3.25%, prompting major commercial banks to follow suit by cutting their prime lending rates to 6.5% from 6.75%. 
   TD The statement accompanying the Fed's action suggested that policy makers see the economy much as they have for the past few months: torn between weak business spending and foreign growth on the one hand and continued demand from consumers on the other. "Household demand has been sustained, but business profits and capital spending continue to weaken and growth abroad is slowing, weighing on the U.S. economy," the Fed said. The Fed also indicated it was more likely to lower than raise rates in the future, saying risks were "weighted mainly toward . . . economic weakness" rather than inflation. 

 However, with some signs of stability emerging and the full impact of interest-rate cuts and tax rebates yet to be felt, some economists saw hints that the Fed would pause now in its rate-cutting campaign. In its statement, the Fed alluded to monetary stimulus already in the pipeline, noting that yesterday's action "brings the decline in the target federal-funds rate since the beginning of the year to 300 basis points," or three percentage points (though it said something similar in June). Its reference to "sustained" household spending was more positive than the "weak expansion of consumption" it talked about in June. 

 "They have acknowledged that there are some elements of firmness in the economy but that they may not be sufficient to restore the kind of growth that they feel is appropriate," said Michael Prell, an economic consultant in Arlington, Va., and former senior Fed staffer. 

 The downbeat tone of the Fed's statement helped send the Dow Jones Industrial Average down 145.93 points, or 1.4%, to 10174.14, its lowest level since April. 

 Futures markets put the odds of a quarter-point cut at the Fed's Oct. 2 meeting at 70%, up from 62% Monday. Whether that happens depends mostly on developments in the interim. Merrill Lynch chief economist Bruce Steinberg said, "The Fed's view of the economy was not as dire as in July but still gave no sense that the Fed saw an imminent turnaround," suggesting that a cut is likely in October. 

 Recent signs have been mixed. Most manufacturers' orders still are falling, according to surveys, and profit projections remain in free-fall. Some areas of previous strength, like commercial construction and auto sales, are also weakening. Foreign economies are slipping. 

 But new claims for unemployment insurance have stopped going up and aggregate manufacturing output held steady in July for the first time since last fall. Retail sales appear to be getting a lift from tax rebates. Furthermore, while the impact of the Fed's earlier easing had been diluted by the failure of longer-term rates or the dollar to fall, both have dropped recently. 

 Bill Dudley, head of U.S. economic research at Goldman Sachs and one of Wall Street's gloomiest prognosticators, thinks the Fed will cut rates again this fall but not necessarily at its October meeting. He expects tax rebates to sharply boost August retail sales, but that will make it hard for the Fed to know what the underlying trend is. "I can imagine a scenario where the Fed saw the recovery in retail spending and decided in October to wait for more evidence" before cutting rates again, he says. 

 In yesterday's statement, Fed officials said slackening in job and product markets "is expected to keep inflation contained." That's the same language they used in their June statement. Still, in recent months, some members of the Federal Open Market Committee, made up of Fed governors and regional-bank presidents, have raised concerns about cutting rates so much that inflation becomes a problem next year. 

 For that reason, Mickey Levy, chief economist at Bank of America, said that unlike in previous economic cycles when the Fed cut rates until economic conditions improved, it may stop sooner this time. "One reason they may want to be a little more cautious this time is that over the last year, as the economy has slumped, core inflation has drifted up a bit," he said. 

 Though Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan has been consistently optimistic about the inflation outlook, Mr. Levy said "there are different members who are probably keeping a closer eye on the inflation numbers, and that concern, I believe, will mount and spread once we're into the economic rebound." 

 Only seven of the Fed's 12 regional reserve banks had requested yesterday's quarter-point interest-rate cut, the same as in June. That suggests "some possible dissension," said Peter Hooper, chief U.S. economist at Deutsche Bank, surmising that most if not all of the other five would have preferred no cut. However, the Richmond, Va., and Kansas City, Mo., Feds, two hawkish banks that didn't originally request the June quarter-point cut, did request yesterday's, suggesting some hawks have become either more worried about the economy or less worried about inflation during the past two months. 

 --- 

 Journal Link: Read the Fed's latest policy statement and see background information on interest rates, in the online Journal at WSJ.com/JournalLinks. 
   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSc15 : Performance | c152 : Earnings Projections | c1521 : Analyst Comment/Recommendation | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument j000000020010822dx8m00074  



 HDUS slowdown hits HK jobs and growth.   BYBy RAHUL JACOB IN HONG KONG.    WC403 words   PD22 August 2001   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPAntony Leung, Hong Kong's financial secretary, on Wednesday warned of higher unemployment in the territory and a slowdown in the economy as it continues to be buffeted by the slowdown in the US, one of its largest trading partners.

Reacting to a decision by Hong Kong banks to lower their interest rates in tandem with the US Federal Reserve's quarter-point interest rate cut, Mr Leung said that the lower interest rates would have only a limited impact in Hong Kong.
   TD"What we are seeing is a worldwide slowdown. I believe realistically any rebound in the real economy would have to happen some time next year," Mr Leung said.

Hong Kong is to announce its second quarter gross domestic product figures next week but Mr Leung signalled recently that the government would revise its full-year forecast again at the time amid signs of persistent weakness in the local economy. In May, the government reduced its forecast for 2001 from 4 per cent to 3 per cent.

Unlike its regional neighbours such as Taiwan and Singapore, Hong Kong is not heavily dependent on exports that feed into the global information technology industry. A poll by Reuters of local economists earlier this week found they were predicting Hong Kong's GDP would grow on average by 1.6 per cent in the second quarter.

As deflation has continued to keep its grip on the local economy, however, nominal GDP growth will be lower. Hong Kong's economy grew by 10 per cent last year in a sharp rebound from the effects of the Asian financial crisis.

Earlier this week, Hong Kong announced that its unemployment rate had edged up to 4.7 per cent, with many economists predicting that it would hit 5 per cent by the end of the year. Hong Kong's exports have been declining for the past few months.

K.C. Kwok, an economist with Standard Chartered, said the territory's exporters have been hurt by inventory adjustments as corporate buyers for large US retailers held back their orders. Hong Kong companies are deeply integrated into the buying operations of big US retailers.

"Hong Kong's export orders have declined due to the rundown in inventory in stores in the US. Trade numbers in the third quarter are likely to be bad," Mr Kwok said. 
   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1101 : Economic Growth | e1116 : Employment/Unemployment | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REasiaz : Asia | china : China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | easiaz : Eastern Asia | hkong : Hong Kong | namz : North America | usa : United States   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument ftcom00020010823dx8m000cj  



 HDUS cuts rates to jumpstart economy   BYDavid Williams    WC473 words   PD21 August 2001   SNAgence France Presse   SCAFPR   LAEnglish   CYCopyright Agence France-Presse, 2001 All reproduction and presentation rights reserved. 
   LPWASHINGTON, Aug 21 (AFP) - US Federal Reserve policymakers, fighting to pump life into the stubbornly idle US economy, sliced a quarter point off key interest rates Tuesday in their seventh cut of the year. Members of the Federal Open Market Committee trimmed the benchmark federal funds rate by 25 basis points to 3.50 percent, three percentage points below the rate at the start of this year.

They also cut the largely-symbolic discount point by a quarter point to 3.0 percent.
   TDLong-term prospects for productivity growth and the economy remained favourable, the policy-making Federal Open Market Committee said in a statement.

But "the risks are weighted mainly toward conditions that may generate economic weakness in the foreseeable future," it added, opening the door to another easing in October.

Business investment was dragging down the US economy, the Federal Reserve policymakers said.

"Household demand has been sustained, but business profits and capital spending continue to weaken and growth abroad is slowing, weighing on the US economy," they said in the statement.

But the easing of pressures on labour and product markets was expected to keep inflation contained.

Markets had been banking on a rate cut to soothe mounting fears over the US economic outlook.

US economic growth, hampered by falling business investment amid carnage in the high technology sector, stalled to a mere 0.7 percent in the second quarter.

That figure may even be revised lower this month, possibly showing a contraction, analysts say.

Vital signs for the economy are now mixed.

US manufacturers held output steady in July, ending nine months of falling production.

A closely-watched barometer of future activity, the leading index compiled by the private Conference Board, rose for the fourth straight month in the same month.

But share prices remain weak. The technology-heavy Nasdaq index has dropped about nine percent since rates were last cut June 27.

And the Federal Reserve's latest Beige Book report said a decline in manufacturing activity began to spread into other areas of the economy in June and July.

Some analysts question, however, how effective interest rate cuts will be in boosting growth.

"The question that is increasingly being asked is: Where's the beef?" said a report by Commerzbank economist Patrick Franke.

"In other words, when will the expansionary effect of all this monetary easing finally begin to show up in the real economy?"

While optimists could pin their hopes on a jump in money supply growth in the first half of this year, pessimists could wallow in decelerating consumer credit and sluggish equity markets, he said.

US President George W. Bush's 1.35-billion-dollar tax cut initiative and the prospect of an end to falling inventories are eventually expected to boost growth, however.

djw/mdl 
   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1101 : Economic Growth | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPDDomestic U.S. | SEQN: 0616   PUBAgence France-Presse   ANDocument afpr000020020819dx8l00b9o  



 HDUS rate cuts this year   WC264 words   PD21 August 2001   SNAgence France Presse   SCAFPR   LAEnglish   CYCopyright Agence France-Presse, 2001 All reproduction and presentation rights reserved. 
   LPWASHINGTON, Aug 21 (AFP) - Following is a chronology of US interest rate cuts in 2001 following the Federal Reserve's decision Tuesday to make the seventh reduction of this year: August 21 -- The US Federal Reserve's policy-making Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) lowers the benchmark federal funds rate by 25 basis points to 3.50 percent. "The risks are weighted mainly toward conditions that may generate economic weakness in the foreseeable future," it says in a statement.

June 27 -- The FOMC cuts the federal funds rate by 25 basis points to 3.75 percent.
   TDMay 15 -- Citing the likelihood of a decline in business investment, the FOMC cuts the federal funds rate by 50 basis points to 4.0 percent.

April 18 -- In a surprise decision taken between meetings, the FOMC cuts the federal funds rate by 50 basis points to 4.5 percent. The pace of economic activity, it says, is "unacceptably weak".

March 20 -- The FOMC cuts the federal funds rate by 50 basis points to 5.0 percent.

January 31 -- Pointing to weaker sales and business sentiment and overstocked inventories, the FOMC slices the federal funds rate by 50 basis points to 5.5 percent.

January 3 -- The FOMC, acting without an official meeting, cuts the federal funds rate by 50 basis points to 6.0 percent. It cites "further weakening of sales and production and in the context of lower consumer confidence, tight conditions in some segments of financial markets and high energy prices sapping household and business purchasing power."

bur-djw/mdl 
   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1117 : Business Sentiment | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPDFinancial | SEQN: 0609   PUBAgence France-Presse   ANDocument afpr000020020819dx8l00b43  



 HDINTERNATIONAL CAPITAL MARKETS - Equity gains hit US Treasuries.   BYBy KEN HIJINO, ARKADY OSTROVSKY and JENNY WIGGINS.     WC608 words   PD21 August 2001   SNFinancial Times   SCFTFT   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2001 The Financial Times Ltd. All rights reserved. Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the web.  
   LPStock market gains and profit-taking ahead of an expected interest rate cut pushed US Treasuries lower yesterday.

Treasuries rose last week on signs of continued economic weakness.
   TDThe Federal Reserve's Open Market Committee is widely expected to cut the Federal funds rate by 25 basis points when it meets today further to stimulate the US economy.

"We expect them to help bail us out of a slowdown," said James Caron, fixed-income strategist at Merrill Lynch.

Mr Caron said the Fed was likely to cut rates by 25bp rather than 50bp to avoid creating panic in the markets. A 50bp cut would "shock" the market, he said. "I don't think the Fed wants to alarm anybody."

Stock market strength also helped push Treasuries down yesterday. At midday, the Dow Jones Industrial Average had gained 54 points while the Nasdaq index was up 6 points.

At midday, the US Treasury 10-year note was down at 100 25/32 yielding 4.90 per cent and the 30-year bond had fallen to 98 25/32 with a yield of 5.45 per cent. The two-year note was standing at 100 9/32, yielding 3.71 per cent.

The Conference Board's index of leading economic indicators rose 0.3 per cent in July, slightly more than expected, but had little impact on the market. The board claimed the rise was indicative of some strength in the economy.

In the eurozone bond prices fell at the long end of the curve but most investors were waiting for cues from today's FOMC meeting. "The bond market is lacking an impetus," one trader said.

The 10-year German Bund yield was up 1.4 basis points to 4.471 per cent while the two year Schatz bond yield fell 0.6bp to 3.962 per cent. The 10-year bund future was down 0.10 to 109.29.

Investors are also focusing on the European Central Bank's meeting on August 30, with some expecting a cut of as much as 50bp.

"The market is slowly coming round to the view that the ECB could cut (interest rates) by 25bp," said David Brown of Bear Stearns, who said the ECB could cut rates by as much as 50bp.

In London, UK gilt prices fell slightly. The 10-year gilt future fell 0.23 to 115.80.

Japanese government bonds slipped amid thin trading as investors stayed on the sidelines ahead of a 10-year bond auction.

The market has been unnerved by fears that there may be inadequate appetite to digest Y1,700bn worth of new 10-year JGBs that the Ministry of Finance will be offering today.

Analysts noted that investors were restraining themselves from pushing the yield of the current benchmark too low to avoid a lower coupon yield on the new JGBs issued today. The MoF sets coupon yields based on the current yield of the benchmark bond.

Regardless of the level of the coupon yield, analysts said that the auction could be a difficult one, especially as institutional investors continue to lock into profits by selling JGBs ahead of book-closing in September.

Share prices extended losses for the fourth consecutive day, adding to concern that banks would have to offset equity portfolio losses by selling bonds.

The key September 10-year JGB futures contract fell 0.05 to 140.20.

The benchmark No 233 10-year cash JGB fell 0.175 to 100.434, pushing up the yield by 0.020 to 1.350 per cent. 
   NSmntdbt : National Government Debt/Bond Markets | e1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCBonds | Markets | Market&apos;sp&apos;News | Market&apos;sp&apos;Reports | United&apos;sp&apos;States&apos;sp&apos;of&apos;sp&apos;America | United&apos;sp&apos;Kingdom | Japan   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument ftft000020010821dx8l000d6  



 HD UPDATE 1-US CEOs hail rate cut, but hold capital spending.    BY By Julie MacIntosh    WC654 words   PD21 August 2001   ET23:41   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 Reuters Limited
   LP NEW YORK, Aug 21 (Reuters) - The Federal Reserve's quarter-point interest rate cut prompted guarded optimism from Corporate America on Tuesday, but executives said they were still too spooked by the economic downturn to start spending in anticipation of a recovery. 

 Investors had widely expected the cut in the federal funds rate, a benchmark for short-term lending, as part of its campaign to stave off a recession and jump-start the economy. 
   TD "I don't really feel like we've seen the bottom yet," said Dan DiMicco, chief executive of steelmaker Nucor Corp. , who does not expect a turnaround in the demand-starved steel industry in the near future. "We're bordering on a recession right now, and this will help keep that from happening." 

 The rate cut marked the Fed's seventh such action this year, and slashed the key federal funds rate to 3.5 percent, its lowest level since March 1994. But corporate heads weren't convinced Tuesday's cuts, which included chopping the discount rate charged to commercial banks, would revive the economy. 

 U.S. corporate earnings this year are expected to show the worst decline in a decade, and the manufacturing and heavy industry sectors have helped lead the collapse in profits. 

 Makers of everything from autos to electronics and computer hardware have struggled since late 2000 to balance inventories with demand, which dropped off more abruptly than many had forecast as their customers' capital spending budgets shrank. 

 Joe Magliochetti, chief executive of Dana Corp., said the auto parts maker had seen hints U.S. industrial production could improve in the fourth quarter after dropping about 4.5 percent since it began to slide last summer. 

 Dana's goal to reduce debt has not changed, even though rates are lower and allow it to borrow more cheaply, he said. Magliochetti said Dana would wait a few months for the rate cut to take effect to see whether it boosts consumer confidence and capital spending, along with the federal tax cut. 

 'DELICATE BALANCE' 

 No. 2 U.S. cereal maker Kellogg Co. took on $4.6 million of debt when it completed its purchase of Keebler in March, bringing its total debt load to $6.5 billion. Tuesday's rate cut will trim borrowing costs on $1.2 billion in short-term debt held by the company, a company spokesman said. 

 The interest rate cuts should eventually pull mortgage rates lower and aid the housing market, once they begin to filter into the longer-term debt market, said Laurence Hirsch, chief executive of homebuilder Centex Corp. 

 "The business is still good, but we really haven't seen the last few rate cuts have any significant impact on mortgage rates," Hirsch said. 

 Will the Fed's rate-slicing efforts be enough? 

 "It's a delicate balance right now that the Fed's wrestling," between cutting rates enough that it has an impact on business and consumer confidence without going too far to ignite inflation, said Garry McGuire, chief financial officer of communications equipment maker Avaya Inc. 

 Retail chain store sales rose modestly during the past week on "back-to-school" sales and extra business generated by federal tax rebates, according to a joint report released on Tuesday from UBS Warburg and the Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi. 

 The Fed's previous rate cuts have boosted consumer confidence and taken the edge off an overvalued dollar, said Jerry Tatar, chief executive of paper and office products maker Mead Corp. 

 While the Fed suggested more rate cuts were a possibility, Tatar said lower rates alone will not prop up the U.S. economy. Inventory surpluses must be corrected, he said, and the market's psychological bruises need time to heal. 

 "To the extent that we can bring interest rates down, that would be a component of it," he said. 
   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1117 : Business Sentiment | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   ANDocument lba0000020010821dx8l0a7wh  



 HD U.S. CEOs hail rate cut, but hold capital spending.    BY By Julie MacIntosh    WC595 words   PD21 August 2001   ET22:21   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 Reuters Limited
   LP NEW YORK, Aug 21 (Reuters) - The Federal Reserve's quarter-point interest rate cut prompted guarded optimism from Corporate America on Tuesday, but executives said they were still too spooked by the economic downturn to start spending in anticipation of a recovery. 

 Investors had widely expected the cut in the federal funds rate, a benchmark for short-term lending, as part of its campaign to stave off a recession and jump-start the economy. 
   TD "I don't really feel like we've seen the bottom yet," said Dan DiMicco, chief executive of steelmaker Nucor Corp. , who does not expect a turnaround in the demand-starved steel industry in the near future. "We're bordering on a recession right now, and this will help keep that from happening." 

 The rate cut marked the Fed's seventh such action this year, and slashed the key federal funds rate to 3.5 percent, its lowest level since March 1994. But corporate heads weren't convinced Tuesday's cuts, which included chopping the discount rate charged to commercial banks, would revive the economy. 

 U.S. corporate earnings this year are expected to show the worst decline in a decade, and the manufacturing and heavy industry sectors have helped lead the collapse in profits. 

 Makers of everything from autos to electronics and computer hardware have struggled since late 2000 to balance inventories with demand, which dropped off more abruptly than many had forecast as their customers' capital spending budgets shrank. 

 Joe Magliochetti, chief executive of Dana Corp., said the auto parts maker had seen hints U.S. industrial production could improve in the fourth quarter after dropping about 4.5 percent since it began to slide last summer. 

 Dana's goal to reduce debt has not changed, even though rates are lower and allow it to borrow more cheaply, he said. Magliochetti said Dana would wait a few months for the rate cut to take effect and see whether it boosts consumer confidence and capital spending, along with the federal tax cut. 

 'DELICATE BALANCE' 

 The interest rate cuts should eventually pull mortgage rates lower and aid the housing market, once they begin to filter into the longer-term debt market, said Laurence Hirsch, chief executive of homebuilder Centex Corp. 

 "The business is still good, but we really haven't seen the last few rate cuts have any significant impact on mortgage rates," Hirsch said. 

 Is the Fed's rate-slicing jaunt enough? 

 "It's a delicate balance right now that the Fed's wrestling, between cutting rates enough that it has an impact on business and consumer confidence without going too far to ignite inflation," said Garry McGuire, chief financial officer of communications equipment maker Avaya Inc. 

 Retail chain store sales rose modestly during the past week on "back-to-school" sales and extra business generated by federal tax rebates, according to a joint report released on Tuesday from UBS Warburg and the Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi. 

 The Fed's previous rate cuts have boosted consumer confidence and taken the edge off an overvalued dollar, said Jerry Tatar, chief executive of paper and office products maker Mead Corp. 

 While the Fed suggested more rate cuts were a possibility, Tatar said lower rates alone will not prop up the U.S. economy. Inventory surpluses must be corrected, he said, and the market's psychological bruises need time to heal. 

 "To the extent that we can bring interest rates down, that would be a component of it," he said. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   ANDocument lba0000020010821dx8l08msn  



 HD TEXT-FOMC statement from Aug. 21 meeting.    WC240 words   PD21 August 2001   ET20:20   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 Reuters Limited
   LP WASHINGTON, Aug 21 (Reuters) -  The following is the full text of the 

 Federal Open Market Committee's statement issued Tuesday following a one-day 
   TD meeting on interest rate policy: 

 "The Federal Open Market Committee at its meeting today decided to lower 

 its target for the federal funds rate by 25 basis points to 3-1/2 

 percent. In a related action, the Board of Governors approved a 25 basis 

 point reduction in the discount rate to 3 percent. Today's action by the 

 FOMC brings the decline in the target federal funds rate since the 

 beginning of the year to 300 basis points. 

 Household demand has been sustained, but business profits and capital 

 spending continue to weaken and growth abroad is slowing, weighing on the 

 U.S. economy. The associated easing of pressures on labor and product 

 markets is expected to keep inflation contained. 

 Although long-term prospects for productivity growth and the economy 

 remain favorable, the Committee continues to believe that against the 

 background of its long-run goals of price stability and sustainable 

 economic growth and of the information currently available, the risks are 

 weighted mainly toward conditions that may generate economic weakness in 

 the foreseeable future. 

 In taking the discount rate action, the Federal Reserve Board approved 

 requests submitted by the Boards of Directors of the Federal Reserve

 Banks of Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Richmond, Chicago, Kansas City 

 and Dallas." 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   ANDocument lba0000020010821dx8l07mdz  



 HD Fed begins  interest rate  meeting, more easing seen.    WC195 words   PD21 August 2001   ET15:08   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 Reuters Limited
   LP WASHINGTON, Aug 21 (Reuters) - Policymakers at the U.S. Federal Reserve began their deliberations on interest rates on Tuesday amid expectations the central bank would decide to cut rates for a seventh time this year. 

 A Fed spokeswoman said the Federal Open Market Committee, which sets the federal funds rate governing how much banks may charge each other for overnight loans, started its closely watched meeting at about 9 a.m. EDT (1300 GMT). 
   TD Analysts are widely in agreement that the central bank will cut the fed funds rate by a quarter-percentage point to 3.50 percent. A poll by Reuters of primary dealers in government debt found unanimity about the cut but a split over whether there will be further rate reductions ahead. 

 U.S. economic growth was anemic in the first half of the year. But in recent weeks, reports have shown consumer spending and the housing market have continued to hold up, and there is some sign the troubled manufacturing sector could be stabilizing. 

 The Fed's decision is expected to be made public at about 2:15 p.m. EDT (1815 GMT). 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   ANDocument lba0000020010821dx8l048br  



 HD German "wise man" says ECB needn't follow Fed cut.    WC247 words   PD21 August 2001   ET08:20   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 Reuters Limited
   LP FRANKFURT, Aug 21 (Reuters) - Horst Siebert, a senior adviser to the German government, said on Tuesday the European Central Bank did not need to follow the widely expected U.S. interest rate cut by trimming euro zone rates. 

 Siebert, a member of the government's panel of economic advisers called "wise men", told German TV he expected the U.S. Federal Reserve to cut interest rates by a quarter point at its meeting on Tuesday but he was sceptical whether the ECB had to follow suit. 
   TD "I expect the Fed to cut rates by a quarter point today but I doubt whether the ECB must do the same and I would not advise it," Siebert said on the Morgenmagazin daily show. 

 He said the ECB as a young central bank had to act differently than the well-established Fed and noted that interest rate changes worked with large time lags with their full effects felt only after three quarters. 

 The U.S. Federal Reserve is widely expected to cut its key lending rate, now at 3.75 percent, for the seventh time this year by a quarter of a percentage point later on Tuesday. 

 By contrast the ECB council, which meets on August 30 for the first time after its four-week summer break, cut rates only once this year, trimming its key minimum bid rate by a quarter point to 4.50 percent on May 10. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | e52 : Euro Zone/Currency | ecat : Economic News | eec : European Union | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations   REeurz : Europe | gfr : Germany | namz : North America | usa : United States | weurz : Western Europe   ANDocument lba0000020010821dx8l02wy3  



 CLMMonday's Markets   HD Stocks Rise on Expectations of Rate Cut    BY By Gregory Zuckerman    CRStaff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal   WC660 words   PD21 August 2001   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGC1   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 2001, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)
   LP Stocks staged a modest rally after last week's drubbing, as investors bet the Federal Reserve will lower interest rates today and perhaps signal there may not be a need for more rate cuts down the line. 

 The Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 0.77%, or 79.29 points, to 10320.07. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index increased 9.44 points, or 0.81%, to 1171.41. The Nasdaq Composite Index rose 0.77%, or 14.34 points, to 1881.35. 
   TD Some investors "are anticipating there won't be a need for more rate cuts this year" after today's anticipated move, said John Peluso, head of listed trading at Lehman Brothers. "They started to nibble on stocks. They're right to get in now if the economy is starting to bottom out." 

 Some traders had prepared for another rough day, on the heels of Friday's losses, which left the Nasdaq at its lowest levels in more than four months. But stocks held their ground in the morning and added to gains in the afternoon, a resilience that impressed some analysts. 

 Bonds fell, giving up some of their recent gains, and the dollar rose. 

 "Friday was a debacle, but I am seeing some real buying of stocks. The tone is getting better," said James Raphalian, head of Nasdaq trading at SG Cowen. 

 A piece of helpful news: The Conference Board said its index of leading economic indicators, which attempts to forecast economic conditions six months down the line, rose 0.3%, the same amount it rose in June. The rise was in line with expectations, but nonetheless gave bulls reason for optimism. 

 More good news could come today when the Fed meets on interest rates. Fed-fund futures suggest a cut of 0.25 percentage point is likely, taking the Fed-funds rate down to 3.5%, its lowest level since 1994, though a few investors are holding out for a cut of 0.50 percentage point. 

 As usual, the wording that accompanies the Fed's interest-rate decision will be at least as important as the move itself. In the past, investors crossed their fingers, hoping for signs that more rate cuts are in the offing. 

 Not this time. Investors are desperately searching for a reason to believe the worst is over for the stock market and corporate profits. Many investors are hoping for a quarter-point rate cut, with a statement by the Fed indicating that the central bank sees signs of improvement. While a half-point cut could cheer some investors, others would wonder if the Fed sees more tough times ahead. Since the Fed's six rate cuts this year have done little to revive the economy so far, a half-point cut might not do more than a quarter-point would, according to these investors. 

 "No rate cut wouldn't be good because the market is looking for a quarter-point cut, and if we get that and the Fed signals that's enough for the year, it would be good news," Mr. Peluso said. "A half-point cut would frighten the marketplace, it would tell the market that the Fed sees a further slowdown in the pipeline." 

 In major U.S. market action: 

 Major stock indexes rose. On the Big Board, where 890 million shares traded, 1,772 stocks rose while 1,340 stocks fell. 

 Bonds declined. The 10-year Treasury note fell 17/32, or $5.313 for each $1,000 face value, at 100 25/32, and a yield of 4.90%. The 30-year Treasury bond fell 15/32, leaving its yield at 5.454%. 

 The dollar rose. Late in New York, it traded at 91.42 cents to the euro and 120.70 yen to the dollar, up from 91.78 cents and 120.22 yen. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | eec : European Union | m11 : Equity Markets | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | npag : Page-One Story | nsum : News Digest | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations   REasiaz : Asia | easiaz : Eastern Asia | jap : Japan | namz : North America | usa : United States   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument j000000020010821dx8l0003d  



 CLMCredit Markets   HD Treasury Prices Finish Lower on Profit-Taking As Investors Expect Fed to Lower Interest Rates    BY By Michael Mackenzie    CRDow Jones Newswires   WC1,069 words   PD21 August 2001   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGC15   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 2001, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)
   LP NEW YORK -- Treasurys succumbed to profit-taking ahead of a Federal Reserve meeting today that's widely expected to yield this year's seventh rate cut. 

 At 4 p.m. EDT, the benchmark 10-year Treasury note was down 17/32 point, or $5.31 per $1,000 face value, at 100 25/32. Its yield rose to 4.900% from 4.833% late Friday, as yields move inversely to prices. 
   TD The 30-year Treasury bond's price was down 15/32 point at 98 27/32 to yield 5.454%, up from 5.422% Friday. 

 Treasurys -- notably short-term issues -- in recent weeks had gained strongly in anticipation of Fed easing, and yesterday's correction wasn't surprising, said Christoper Sullivan, fixed-income portfolio manager at United Nations Federal Credit Union in New York. 

 People in the market widely expect the Fed's policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee today to cut its target for short-term interest rates by a quarter-percentage point to 3.50%. Announcement of a decision and an accompanying statement are expected around 2:15 p.m. EDT. 

 Traders at the Chicago Board of Trade said that futures contracts were at levels reflecting a 100% likelihood of a quarter-point rate cut -- but only a 12% chance of a half-percentage-point rate reduction. 

 Much of today's trading after the Fed announcement is likely to be influenced by the wording of its statement. Investors expect the Fed to cite a greater risk of further economic weakness than of inflation. But they will comb the statement to see whether the Fed refers to any evidence that the economy finally is rebounding. 

 "If the Fed delivers the expected [quarter-point rate cut] accompanied by a statement saying that it remains cognizant of further risks to economic growth, then the market will likely remain near current levels," said Steven Schafer, director of taxable fixed-income management at Northern Trust in Chicago. 

 After today's decision, attention will turn immediately to speculation about whether the Fed will need to cut rates yet again at its Oct. 2 meeting. Yesterday, the futures market was at levels suggesting roughly a 62% likelihood that the Fed will cut rates by another quarter-percentage point, assuming today's widely expected quarter-point cut. 

 However, "The party line at the Fed is that the foundation for a recovery has been built, and the FOMC will do nothing to call that view into question at this week's meeting," said Lou Crandall, chief economist at Wrightson Associates in New York. 

 The market reacted little to news that the federal government posted a $2.52 billion surplus in July, bringing the total surplus for the year to $171.47 billion. That differed from a Congressional Budget Office estimate for July that rather than any surplus, the budget would have about a $1 billion deficit. 

 The Treasury sold $15 billion three-month and $14 billion six-month bills at its weekly auction. 

 The auction was less successful than predicted for the six-month bills, which came in at a high rate of 3.29% compared with the expected level of 3.27%. The bid-to-cover ratio, a gauge of interest, was low at 1.66. 

 But, the three-month bills came right in on target at a discount rate of 3.330%, with a bid-to-cover ratio of 1.98. 


               13-Week and 26-Week Bills
  Here are the details of yesterday's auction by the Treasury of
13-week and 26-week bills.
  All bids are awarded at a single price at the market-clearing yield.
Rates are determined by the difference between that price and the face
value.
                               13-Week          26-Week
Applications ............. $29,681,497,000  $23,289,163,000
Accepted bids ............ $15,000,040,000  $14,000,107,000
Accepted noncomp .........  $1,370,139,000   $1,115,475,000
Accepted frgn non ........    $150,000,000      $50,000,000
Auction price (Rate) ..... 99.149 (3.330%)  98.337 (3.290%)
Coupon equivalent ........          3.405%           3.392%
Bids at market yield .....          85.91%           26.19%
Cusip number .............       912795HW4        912795JH5
  Both issues are dated Aug. 23. The 13-week bills mature Nov. 23,
2001, and the 26-week bills mature Feb. 21, 2002.



Agency Securities



Fannie Mae's buyback of 30-year benchmark notes somewhat boosted
longer maturities in the agency securities market compared with both
interest-rate swaps and Treasurys, reversing a weakening last week.



The repurchases totaled $812 million, including $525 million of 6.25%
bonds due May 15, 2029; $187 million of 7.125% bonds due Jan. 15, 2030;
and $100 million of 7.25% bonds due May 15, 2030.



Fannie Mae was seeking to repurchase a maximum of 20% of the
outstanding amount in each issue. Prior to the buybacks, there were
$3.95 billion, $4.393 billion and $4.25 billion outstanding for the
three issues, respectively.



Fannie Mae's 6% notes due 2011 were yielding 0.825 percentage point
above the 10-year Treasury late in the day.



Corporate Bonds



Concerns about possible downgrades for Ford Motor Co. and its Ford
Motor Credit unit, as well as for General Motors Co. and its funding
arm, General Motors Acceptance Corp., pressured auto-related debt issues
in trading.



Ford Motor Credit's 30-year bonds were quoted at a yield margin of
2.10 to 2.15 percentage points above Treasurys on Bond Book, an online
trading platform. That was a widening from 1.90 percentage points above
Treasurys one week earlier.



"There's ongoing pressure on the auto sector, and we really have to
wait for the dust to settle and see where the ratings end up," said
David Coard, head of fixed-income sales and trading at Williams Capital
Group in New York.



Ford Motor Credit and GMAC are the second and third largest isssuers
in the U.S. corporate bond market.



Friday, Moody's Investors Service and Standard & Poor's both said
they were reviewing Ford and its finance unit for possible downgrades.
S&P also put GM and its finance unit on CreditWatch with negative
implications.



No new offerings were sold in the high-grade corporate debt market
yesterday.



---



Tyler Lifton and Christine Richard contributed to this article.

   INi351 : Motor Vehicles | i35101 : Passenger Cars | iaut : Automobiles   NSc17 : Funding/Capital | c171 : Share Capital | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | cshbuy : Share Buybacks | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | e21 : Government Finance | e212 : Government Borrowing | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States | usc : Midwest U.S. | use : Northeast U.S. | uss : Southern U.S.   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument j000000020010821dx8l0000k  



 HD Business leaders welcome US rate cut    WC437 words   PD21 August 2001   SNAgence France-Presse   SCAFPR   LAEnglish   CYCopyright (c) 2001 Bell & Howell Information and Learning Company. All rights reserved.
   CX ATTENTION - ADDS manufacturers' statement 
   LP WASHINGTON, Aug 21 (AFP) - US business and industry leaders welcomed the Federal Reserve's decision to cut interest rates Tuesday for the seventh time this year as a safeguard against a further slowdown. 

 The Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) lowered its target for the federal funds rate by 25 basis points to 3.50 percent and cut the largely symbolic discount rate by the same margin to 3.0 percent. 
   TD FOMC policymakers also cited the risks of economic conditions creating general economic weakness "for the foreseeable future," opening the door to further interest rate cuts. 

 Business and industry leaders said they now looked forward to a recovery later this year. 

 "Combined with this year's tax rebates, the most recent rate cut is an insurance policy against further weakening in the economy," US Chamber of Commerce chief economist Martin Regalia said in a statement. 

 "As important as the rate cut itself, the Fed's decision to maintain its economic growth bias is a clear expression of its willingness to cut rates further if necessary to get the economy moving," Regalia said. 

 US President George W. Bush's 11-year, 1.35-trillion-dollar tax cut initiative is expected to inject 40 billion dollars in tax rebates into people' pockets in the current quarter. 

Federal Reserve interest rate cuts had so far staved off recession while failing to trigger a rebound, Regalia said. 

 "With consumers continuing to spend, housing markets remaining strong and businesses drawing down inventories, the economy should be poised for a turnaround by the end of the year," she forecast. 

 A separate statement by National Association of Manufacturers president Jerry Jasinowski welcomed the cut, but said it would have been happier with a reduction of 50 basis points. 

 "With manufacturing still facing challenges both at home and overseas, the Fed made a supportive move today that should prompt a recovery in the fourth quarter," he said. 

 Most of the economy had avoided recession but manufacturing output fell 4.8 percent since September last year and 837,000 jobs had been lost, Jasinowski said. 

 "While some of the causes of the manufacturing recession such as the inventory overhang and a spike in energy costs appear to have been reversed, clear signs of a recovery have yet to appear," he added. 

 The latest interest rate cut should also help to bear down on the value of the dollar, Jasinowski said. 

 "This should, along with stronger growth overseas in 2002, set the stage for a manufacturing recovery starting in the fourth quarter and accelerating in 2002." 

 djw/rl 
   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1101 : Economic Growth | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPDFinancial | SEQN: 0661 | Regalia, Martin | Jasinowski, Jerry   ANDocument afpr000020010821dx8l00bwb  



 HD Fed cuts rates quarter-point, says economy still faces risks    BY David Williams    WC623 words   PD21 August 2001   SNAgence France-Presse   SCAFPR   LAEnglish   CYCopyright (c) 2001 Bell & Howell Information and Learning Company. All rights reserved.
   CX ATTENTION - RECASTS, ADDS analysts' quotes 
   LP WASHINGTON, Aug 21 (AFP) - US Federal Reserve policymakers, fighting to pump life into the sluggish US economy, sliced interest rates Tuesday for the seventh time this year and left the door open to further cuts ahead. 

 Members of the Federal Open Market Committee trimmed the benchmark federal funds rate by 25 basis points to 3.50 percent, three percentage points below the rate at the start of this year. 
   TD They also cut the largely symbolic discount point by a quarter point to 3.0 percent. 

 While long-term prospects for productivity growth and the economy remained favourable, the outlook was under threat, the policymaking Federal Open Market Committee said in a statement. 

 "The risks are weighted mainly toward conditions that may generate economic weakness in the foreseeable future," it said, paving the way to further interest rate cuts. 

 Markets had been expecting the cut to help stimulate the sputtering US economy. But equally important was the Fed's outlook on the pace of recovery, and hint of another reduction in October. 

 "The economy is on a knife-edged cliff," said Swiss Re chief US economist Kurt Karl. 

 "If consumer confidence collapses, the economy will fall into recession. If confidence is sustained, we will avoid the abyss and have, at most, one quarter of falling activity," he added. 

 "The Fed cannot afford to stand idly by while the economy goes into recession -- hence the 25 basis point cut." 

 US economic growth, hampered by falling business investment amid carnage in the high technology sector, stalled to a mere 0.7 percent in the second quarter. 

 That figure may even be revised lower this month, possibly showing a contraction, analysts say. 

Federal Reserve policymakers pointed in their statement to weak business profits and investment, and the impact of slowing global growth on the US economy. 

 But analysts questioned whether the rate cut would have much effect. 

 "They have really done everything they can do, this was the seventh cut," said Conference Board economist Delos Smith. An eighth reduction could now be on the way, he told AFP. 

 "But I do not think it really changes the true business investment," he added. Full recovery is impossible until businesses stop drawing on inventories, prompting to a recovery in production. 

 US President George W. Bush's 1.35-trillion-dollar tax cut initiative is also expected to help, injecting 40 billion dollars in tax rebates into people's pockets in the current quarter. 

 "Combined with this year's tax rebates, the most recent rate cut is an insurance policy against further weakening in the economy," US Chamber of Commerce chief economist Martin Regalia said. 

 "As important as the rate cut itself, the Fed's decision to maintain its economic growth bias is a clear expression of its willingness to cut rates further if necessary to get the economy moving." 

 Vital signs for the US economy are now mixed. 

 US manufacturers held output steady in July, ending nine months of falling production. 

 A closely watched barometer of future activity, the leading index compiled by the private Conference Board, rose for the fourth straight month in the same month. 

 But share prices remain weak. The technology-heavy Nasdaq index has dropped about nine percent since rates were last cut June 27. 

 And the Federal Reserve's latest Beige Book report said a decline in manufacturing activity began to spread into other areas of the economy in June and July. 

 Major US commercial banks, acting on the Federal Reserve's rate cut, announced plans to cut their prime lending rate for top customers to 6.5 percent from 6.75 percent effective Wednesday. 

 djw/rl 
   INi814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1101 : Economic Growth | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPDFinancial | SEQN: 0647   ANDocument afpr000020010821dx8l00bvx  



 HD US cuts rates quarter point to 3.50 percent    WC117 words   PD21 August 2001   SNAgence France-Presse   SCAFPR   LAEnglish   CYCopyright (c) 2001 Bell & Howell Information and Learning Company. All rights reserved.
   LP WASHINGTON, Aug 21 (AFP) - The US Federal Reserve cut its benchmark interest rate by a quarter point to 3.50 percent Tuesday, the seventh reduction this year. 

 The Federal Open Market Committee lowered its target for the federal funds rate by 25 basis points to 3.50 percent and made a 25 basis point reduction in the largely symbolic discount rate to 3.0 percent. 
   TD Long-term prospects for productivity growth and the economy remained favourable, the policy-making Federal Open Market Committee said in a statement. 

 But "the risks are weighted mainly toward conditions that may generate economic weakness in the foreseeable future," it added. 

 djw/rl 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPDFinancial | SEQN: 0604   ANDocument afpr000020010821dx8l00ba5  



 HD European traders cautious, await Fed rate cut    WC794 words   PD21 August 2001   SNAgence France-Presse   SCAFPR   LAEnglish   CYCopyright (c) 2001 Bell & Howell Information and Learning Company. All rights reserved.
   CX ATTENTION - UPDATES with closing values 
   LP LONDON, Aug 21 (AFP) - European share markets posted slight gains on Tuesday, but motivation fizzled out in the afternoon as traders awaited an interest rate meeting of the US Federal Reserve. 

 The FTSE 100 index in London was the biggest winner of the day, adding 1.36 percent to end at 5,430.3 points. 
   TD The CAC 40 also posted a slight gain -- 0.91 percent -- to end at 4,834.87 points. 

 Frankfurt's DAX 30 index recovered slightly in late trading, adding 0.36 percent after losing more than half a percent earlier in the day, dragged down by market heavyweight Deutsche Telekom. 

 At 1615 GMT, the DAX was at 5226.66 points. 

 The euro-zone Stoxx 50 barometer was up 0.7 percent to 3791.88 points. 

 The euro again lost a little steam, trading for 0.9117 dollars, two hours before the Fed was to announce the expected rate cut. 

 In New York, the Dow Jones 30 Industrials were little inspired by the imminent news of a rate cut, edging up a scant 0.36 percent to 10357.65. The high-tech Nasdaq stood at 1891.29, a gain of 0.53 percent. 

 Asian traders were also taking a wait-and-see attitude, with Tokyo stocks rising 0.2 percent Tuesday. Hong Kong share prices, on the other hand, sagged 0.2 percent. 

 Most dealers were waiting in the wings in the hours ahead of the meeting later Tuesday of the Fed, which was widely expected to cut interest rates for the seventh time this year, by a quarter percentage point to 3.5 percent. 

 An announcement was expected at 1815 GMT. 

 Yet markets were not expected to take a great deal of solace from yet another dose of the Fed's medicine, given that the last six cuts have so far shown little sign of bolstering economic activity or corporate earnings. 

 "All we have is a rebound in an oversold market," said James Volk at DA Davidson et Co. 

 "The markets are in disarray, the technology stocks are trashed, there is no change in the business outlook, and there is no change in the economic outlook." 

 Drew Maltus, an economist at Lehman Brothers said, "With the (US) economy stalling in the second quarter and stumbling into the third quarter, the Fed will probably want to provide another boost at this meeting." 

 In Zurich, one of the biggest movers was Swiss drugs giant Novartis, whose shares closed up 3.6 percent to 60.40 Swiss francs on news that its cancer-drug Zometa had won US marketing approval. 

 Other European pharmaceuticals bounded up, with GlaxoSmithKline adding 2.06 percent to 1,880 pence in London. AstraZeneca rose 3.68 percent to 3,328 pence. 

 Both are being handled as possible buyers of the pharmaceuticals division of troubled German giant Bayer. In Frankfurt, Bayer firmed 2.03 percent to 35.10 euros. 

 Shares in embattled Deutsche Telekom shed 1.1 percent to 17.10 euros after the Financial Times Deutschland reported that Finnish operator Sonera planned to sell its remaining 72 million shares in the company by the end of the year. 

 Deutsche Post AG, which said Tuesday second-quarter net profit fell by 3.81 percent, saw shares tumble as a result -- they were down 3.55 percent to 17.12 euros. 

 French group Havas Advertising said operating profit rose by almost 50 percent in the first half of the year to 1.1 billion euros (1.0 billion dollars). Sales rose by almost 50 percent to 7.4 billion euros, sending shares up 2.79 percent to 10.68 euros. 

 European aviation and defense giant EADS regained some territory it had lost last week, as shares climbed 4.21 percent to 19.80 euros. 

 The Wall Street Journal reported that Airbus Industrie, in which EADS holds an 80-percent stake, was in talks with China about the sale of 30 to 50 A320 airliners, worth up to 2.7 billion dollars (3.0 billion euros). 

 BAE Systems, which owns the remaining 20 percent of Airbus, gained 0.6 percent to 337 pence in London. 

 In Madrid, the Ibex-35 closed virtually unchanged, up 0.07 percent to 8.195.9 points. The Brussels bourse index Bel-20 inched up 0.2 percent to 2,848.09 points. 

 In Zurich, the Swiss Market Index ended the day at 6,735.40 points, a gain of 1.66 percent, while in Amsterdam the AEX added 1.23 percent, to end trading at 529.3 points. 

 And when traders went home in Milan, the Mib 30 had hardly moved, up 0.02 percent to 35,239 points. 

 bur-tm/sas 
   INi257 : Pharmaceuticals   NSccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REasiaz : Asia | namz : North America | usa : United States   IPDFinancial | SEQN: 0573   ANDocument afpr000020010821dx8l00b48  



 HD US Fed meets, expected to cut rates    WC266 words   PD21 August 2001   SNAgence France-Presse   SCAFPR   LAEnglish   CYCopyright (c) 2001 Bell & Howell Information and Learning Company. All rights reserved.
   LP WASHINGTON, Aug 21 (AFP) - Federal Reserve policymakers, widely expected to cut interest rates for the seventh time this year to bolster the US economy, began meeting here Tuesday, a spokesman said. 

 Market economists, citing uncertainty over the timing of a US recovery, overwhelmingly expect the US central bank to cut the federal funds rate by 0.25 percentage points to 3.50 percent. 
   TD The policy-making Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) was scheduled to announce its decision at about 2:15 pm (1815 GMT). 

 The committee has already sliced the benchmark rate by 275 basis points to 3.75 percent in six moves since January. 

 Wall Street edged barely higher in anticipation of the move. 

 The Dow Jones industrials index rose 24.57 points, or 0.24 percent, to 10,344.64 and the technology-laden Nasdaq advanced 7.49 points, or 0.4 percent, to 1,888.84 in early trade. 

 "Heading into the upcoming FOMC meeting, Fed officials still confront a relatively weak US economy," said a report by Salomon Smith Barney. 

 "Growth stalled out completely this spring and appears to be just inching ahead this summer. Despite some signs in the latest week that conditions are stabilizing, the evidence is less than compelling. 

 Fed officials were likely to remain on a diet of 0.25-percentage- point interest rate reductions, it said, but it was too soon to invite speculation that the cycle of easing was over. 

 "The United States remains on track for a long stint of relatively low short-term interest rates." 

 djw/mdl 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPDFinancial | SEQN: 0457   ANDocument afpr000020010821dx8l009q1  



 HD Currencies mark time ahead of US rate decision    WC460 words   PD21 August 2001   SNAgence France-Presse   SCAFPR   LAEnglish   CYCopyright (c) 2001 Bell & Howell Information and Learning Company. All rights reserved.
   LP LONDON, Aug 21 (AFP) - The euro held above 91 US cents on Tuesday in a foreign exchange market becalmed ahead of an expected decision by the US Federal Reserve to cut interest rates for the seventh time this year. 

 The single European currency was going for 0.9138 dollars from 0.9145 overnight in New York, while the greenback bought 120.36 yen from 120.67 earlier in Tokyo. 
   TD After several weeks of declines, the dollar's future direction will be determined by the response of markets to the Fed's interest rate decision on Tuesday, analysts said. 

 The US central bank was expected to cut rates by another quarter point, or 25 basis points, to 3.5 percent, but some economists wonder if this will be enough to help the US economy turn around -- particularly as six previous rate cuts have yet to stimulate a recovery. 

 "For the dollar it will be decisive how equity and corporate bond markets react to the rate cut," said BNP Paribas bank in a research note. "Since 25 basis points is very well discounted, we expect capital markets to remain in their summer doldrums." 

 Should the Fed opt for more drastic monetary loosening, the dollar could be driven lower, as the markets would likely interpret the move as tantamount to panic, economists believe. 

 But it is not all plain sailing for the euro, with the key German Ifo business confidence indicator due out on Wednesday that could deal another heavy blow to the single European currency. 

 While the US economy has slowed sharply over the past year, the German economy is flirting with outright recession -- hardly a propitious state of affairs for the euro. 

 As for the yen, it had weakened recently because of concerns that the Japanese authorities could not let it appreciate too much against the dollar. 

 But the trend petered out after Finance Minister Masajuro Shiokawa said government intervention was unlikely in the currency market to stem a recent rise in the Japanese unit. 

 "I am not considering direct intervention in the market," Shiokawa was quoted by Jiji Press as saying in Tokyo. 

 The euro was going for 0.9138 dollars against 0.9145 dollars on Monday in New York, 109.98 yen (110.42), 0.6313 pounds sterling (0.6332) and 1.5171 Swiss francs (1.5185). 

 The dollar stood at 120.36 yen (120.76), and 1.6603 Swiss francs (1.6607). 

 The pound was being traded at 1.4474 dollars (1.4445), 174.24 yen (174.41) and 2.4030 Swiss francs (2.3988). 

 The price of an ounce of gold on the London Bullion Market was quoted at  276.65 dollars, unchanged from Monday afternoon. 

 pda/mro/wai 
   INi814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | e1202 : Interest Rates | e52 : Euro Zone/Currency | ecat : Economic News | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REasiaz : Asia | easiaz : Eastern Asia | jap : Japan | namz : North America | usa : United States | weurz : Western Europe   IPDFinancial | SEQN: 0263   ANDocument afpr000020010821dx8l0066e  



 HD Hong Kong shares close 0.2 percent lower ahead of FOMC meeting    WC358 words   PD21 August 2001   SNAgence France-Presse   SCAFPR   LAEnglish   CYCopyright (c) 2001 Bell & Howell Information and Learning Company. All rights reserved.
   LP HONG KONG, Aug 21 (AFP) - Hong Kong share prices closed 0.2 percent lower Tuesday due to investor caution ahead of the US Federal Reserve decision on interest rates due later in the day, dealers said. 

 The key Hang Seng index lost 18.35 points to close at 11,440.35 on turnover of 6.23 billion Hong Kong dollars (800 million US). 
   TD Y. K. Chan, an analyst with CEF Brokerage, said investors adopted a wait and see approach in the run-up to the US Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) meeting later Tuesday, in which the US Federal Reserve is expected to announce a 25 basis point interest rate cut. 

 "Investors were also waiting for the interim results announcement for Cheung Kong and Hutchison," which are due out Thursday, he said. 

 Cheung Kong was down 1.0 dollar at 68.50 and Hutchison fell 2.25 to 65.25. 

 "Amid the cautious sentiment, China Mobile could not rebound sharply from its losses Monday and China Unicom was lower at the close," he said. 

 China Mobile gained 15 cents to 27.15 dollars and China Unicom shed five cents to 10.25 dollars. 

 Pacific Century CyberWorks was unchanged at 1.89 dollars and Hutchison Whampoa dropped 2.25 dollars to close at 65.25. 

 Dealers said Li and Fung was one of the worst performers after the issue of weaker-than-expected interim results yesterday. 

 Li and Fung, whose major market is the US, lost 2.00 dollars to 9.65. 

 "Li and Fung will continue to face pressure on its profit margins because of the weak US economy," a dealer from a local brokerage said. 

 In the property sector, Sun Hung Kai Properties gained 1.00 dollar to 68.00. 

 Among financial stocks, HSBC rose 1.00 dollar to 93.25. 

 China-related counters ended mixed. China Resources dropped 20 cents to 10.65 dollars and China Southern Airlines fell nine cents to 1.96 dollars. 

 China Travel gained 13 cents to 1.46 dollars after the issue of its interim results. 

 bur-al/bro 
   COckh : Cheung Kong (Holdings) Limited   INi85 : Real Estate Transactions | icre : Construction/Real Estate   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m11 : Equity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REasiaz : Asia | china : China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | easiaz : Eastern Asia | hkong : Hong Kong | namz : North America | usa : United States   IPDFood | SEQN: 0234   ANDocument afpr000020010821dx8l005vg  



 HD Business leaders welcome US rate cut     WC251 words   PD21 August 2001   SNAgence France-Presse   SCAFPR   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright 2001) 
   LP WASHINGTON, Aug 21 (AFP) - US business leaders welcomed the  Federal Reserve's decision to cut interest rates Tuesday for the  seventh time this year as a safeguard against a further slowdown.  

 The Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) lowered its target for  the federal funds rate by 25 basis points to 3.50 percent and cut the  largely symbolic discount rate by the same margin to 3.0 percent.  
   TD FOMC policymakers also cited the risks of economic conditions  creating general economic weakness "for the foreseeable future,"  opening the door to further interest rate cuts.  

 "Combined with this year's tax rebates, the most recent rate cut  is an insurance policy against further weakening in the economy," US  Chamber of Commerce chief economist Martin Regalia said in a  statement.  

 "As important as the rate cut itself, the Fed's decision to  maintain its economic growth bias is a clear expression of its  willingness to cut rates further if necessary to get the economy  moving," Regalia said.  

 US President George W. Bush's 1.35-billion-dollar tax cut  initiative is expected to inject 40 billion dollars in tax rebates  into people' pockets in the current quarter.  

Federal Reserve interest rate cuts had so far staved off recession  while failing to trigger a rebound, Regalia said.  

 "With consumers continuing to spend, housing markets remaining  strong and businesses drawing down inventories, the economy should be  poised for a turnaround by the end of the year," she forecast.  

 djw/mdl  
   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1101 : Economic Growth | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPDFinancial | SEQN: 0629 | Regalia, Martin   ANDocument afpr000020020605dx8l009q1  



 HD European traders cautious, head home before Fed rate cut       WC729 words   PD21 August 2001   SNAgence France-Presse   SCAFPR   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright 2001) 
   LP LONDON, Aug 21 (AFP) - European share markets posted slight gains    on Tuesday, but motivation fizzled out in the afternoon as traders    went home before an interest rate meeting of the US Federal Reserve.    All European markets closed before the announcement that the Fed    had cut its benchmark interest rate by a quarter point to 3.5    percent, the seventh rate cut this year.    

 The FTSE 100 index in London was the biggest winner of the day,    adding 1.36 percent to end at 5,430.3 points.    
   TD The CAC 40 also posted a slight gain -- 0.91 percent -- to end at    4,834.87 points.    

 Frankfurt's DAX 30 index recovered slightly in late trading,    adding 0.16 after losing more than half a percent earlier in the day,    dragged down by market heavyweight Deutsche Telekom.    

 The DAX ended at 5216.11 points, as Deutsche Telekom continued its    fall.    

 The euro tumbled below 91 cents to 0.9098 dollars immediately    following the announcement, before creeping back up to 0.9124 dollars    at 1840 GMT.    

 In New York, the Dow Jones 30 Industrials reacted stoically to the    rate cut, edging up a scant 0.13 percent to 10,333.71. But the high-    tech Nasdaq, after jumping seconds after the cut, stood at 1873.37, a    drop of 0.42 percent.    

 Asian traders were also taking a wait-and-see attitude, with Tokyo    stocks rising 0.2 percent Tuesday. Hong Kong share prices, on the    other hand, sagged 0.2 percent.    

 Markets were not expected to take a great deal of solace from yet    another dose of the Fed's medicine, given that the last six cuts have    so far shown little sign of bolstering economic activity or corporate    earnings.    

 "All we have is a rebound in an oversold market," said James Volk    at DA Davidson et Co.    

 "The markets are in disarray, the technology stocks are trashed,    there is no change in the business outlook, and there is no change in    the economic outlook."    

 In Zurich, one of the biggest movers was Swiss drugs giant    Novartis, whose shares closed up 3.6 percent to 60.40 Swiss francs on    news that its cancer-drug Zometa had won US marketing approval.    

 Other European pharmaceuticals bounded up, with GlaxoSmithKline    adding 2.06 percent to 1,880 pence in London. AstraZeneca rose 3.68    percent to 3,328 pence.    

 Both are being handled as possible buyers of the pharmaceuticals    division of troubled German giant Bayer. In Frankfurt, Bayer firmed    2.62 percent to 35.3 euros.    

 Shares in embattled Deutsche Telekom shed 1.16 percent to 17.10    euros after the Financial Times Deutschland reported that Finnish    operator Sonera planned to sell its remaining 72 million shares in    the company by the end of the year.    

 Deutsche Post AG, which said Tuesday second-quarter net profit    fell by 3.81 percent, saw shares tumble as a result -- they were down    2.8 percent to 17.02 euros.    

 French group Havas Advertising said operating profit rose by    almost 50 percent in the first half of the year to 1.1 billion euros    (1.0 billion dollars). Sales rose by almost 50 percent to 7.4 billion    euros, sending shares up 2.79 percent to 10.68 euros.    

 European aviation and defense giant EADS regained some territory    it had lost last week, as shares climbed 4.21 percent to 19.80 euros.    

 The Wall Street Journal reported that Airbus Industrie, in which    EADS holds an 80-percent stake, was in talks with China about the    sale of 30 to 50 A320 airliners, worth up to 2.7 billion dollars (3.0    billion euros).    

 BAE Systems, which owns the remaining 20 percent of Airbus, gained    0.6 percent to 337 pence in London.    

 In Madrid, the Ibex-35 closed virtually unchanged, up 0.07 percent    to 8.195.9 points. The Brussels bourse index Bel-20 inched up 0.2    percent to 2,848.09 points.    

 In Zurich, the Swiss Market Index ended the day at 6,735.40    points, a gain of 1.66 percent, while in Amsterdam the AEX added 1.23    percent, to end trading at 529.3 points.    

 And when traders went home in Milan, the Mib 30 had hardly moved,    up 0.02 percent to 35,239 points.    

 bur-tm/wdb    
   INi257 : Pharmaceuticals | i7902 : Telecommunications | i79021 : Wired Telecommunications Services | i79024 : Long-distance Telephone Services   NSccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REasiaz : Asia | namz : North America | usa : United States   IPC513310 513322 513220 4813   IPDFinancial | SEQN: 0621   ANDocument afpr000020010827dx8l00d4c  



 HDINTERNATIONAL CAPITAL MARKETS - Equity gains hit US Treasuries.   BYBy KEN HIJINO, ARKADY OSTROVSKY and JENNY WIGGINS.     WC608 words   PD21 August 2001   SNFinancial Times   SCFTFT   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2001 The Financial Times Ltd. All rights reserved. Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the web.  
   LPStock market gains and profit-taking ahead of an expected interest rate cut pushed US Treasuries lower yesterday.

Treasuries rose last week on signs of continued economic weakness.
   TDThe Federal Reserve's Open Market Committee is widely expected to cut the Federal funds rate by 25 basis points when it meets today further to stimulate the US economy.

"We expect them to help bail us out of a slowdown," said James Caron, fixed-income strategist at Merrill Lynch.

Mr Caron said the Fed was likely to cut rates by 25bp rather than 50bp to avoid creating panic in the markets. A 50bp cut would "shock" the market, he said. "I don't think the Fed wants to alarm anybody."

Stock market strength also helped push Treasuries down yesterday. At midday, the Dow Jones Industrial Average had gained 54 points while the Nasdaq index was up 6 points.

At midday, the US Treasury 10-year note was down at 100 25/32 yielding 4.90 per cent and the 30-year bond had fallen to 98 25/32 with a yield of 5.45 per cent. The two-year note was standing at 100 9/32, yielding 3.71 per cent.

The Conference Board's index of leading economic indicators rose 0.3 per cent in July, slightly more than expected, but had little impact on the market. The board claimed the rise was indicative of some strength in the economy.

In the eurozone bond prices fell at the long end of the curve but most investors were waiting for cues from today's FOMC meeting. "The bond market is lacking an impetus," one trader said.

The 10-year German Bund yield was up 1.4 basis points to 4.471 per cent while the two year Schatz bond yield fell 0.6bp to 3.962 per cent. The 10-year bund future was down 0.10 to 109.29.

Investors are also focusing on the European Central Bank's meeting on August 30, with some expecting a cut of as much as 50bp.

"The market is slowly coming round to the view that the ECB could cut (interest rates) by 25bp," said David Brown of Bear Stearns, who said the ECB could cut rates by as much as 50bp.

In London, UK gilt prices fell slightly. The 10-year gilt future fell 0.23 to 115.80.

Japanese government bonds slipped amid thin trading as investors stayed on the sidelines ahead of a 10-year bond auction.

The market has been unnerved by fears that there may be inadequate appetite to digest Y1,700bn worth of new 10-year JGBs that the Ministry of Finance will be offering today.

Analysts noted that investors were restraining themselves from pushing the yield of the current benchmark too low to avoid a lower coupon yield on the new JGBs issued today. The MoF sets coupon yields based on the current yield of the benchmark bond.

Regardless of the level of the coupon yield, analysts said that the auction could be a difficult one, especially as institutional investors continue to lock into profits by selling JGBs ahead of book-closing in September.

Share prices extended losses for the fourth consecutive day, adding to concern that banks would have to offset equity portfolio losses by selling bonds.

The key September 10-year JGB futures contract fell 0.05 to 140.20.

The benchmark No 233 10-year cash JGB fell 0.175 to 100.434, pushing up the yield by 0.020 to 1.350 per cent. 
   NSmntdbt : National Government Debt/Bond Markets | e1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCBonds | Markets | Market&apos;sp&apos;News | Market&apos;sp&apos;Reports | United&apos;sp&apos;States&apos;sp&apos;of&apos;sp&apos;America | United&apos;sp&apos;Kingdom | Japan   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTFT000020051017dx8l01nso  



 HD Asia Is Set to Yawn at Another Fed Rate Cut --- U.S. Easing Today Would Cause Annoyance Over Lost Interest Income    BY By Karen Richardson    CRStaff Reporter   WC668 words   PD21 August 2001   SNThe Asian Wall Street Journal   SCAWSJ   PGM1   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
   LP HONG KONG -- Annoyance, and not anticipation, is the prevalent emotion in Asia ahead of the U.S. Federal Reserve's interest-rate-setting committee meeting today. 

 While U.S. interest-rate cuts were once viewed as a panacea for what ails the world's biggest economy and the Asian countries that feed its enormous appetite for imports, a potential seventh U.S. interest-rate reduction this year is already being discounted by Asian stock markets, which perceive another quarter-percentage-point trim as largely a nonevent. 
   TD In fact, with Asians likely to stash much of their savings in bank deposits, a rate cut means less investment income, first and foremost. 

 "Most Asians are taught to spend out of income, not capital," said Dio Wong, equity strategist for the Asian-Pacific region excluding Japan at Merrill Lynch. "If you cut interest rates further, you're more likely to annoy people because you're effectively reducing the disposable income of the consumer." 

 It took six Federal Reserve interest-rate reductions this year before Asian bond prices experienced much of an upward nudge, and stocks in much of the world have continued sinking as economic growth slows dramatically. Not surprisingly, Asian investors aren't about to bet the farm that one more U.S. rate cut will turn the global economy around on a dime. 

 "I don't think markets are going to react very enthusiastically" today if there is a rate cut, said John Dolfin, regional equity strategy analyst at J.P. Morgan. Mr. Dolfin and other strategists say stock investors will stay on the sidelines until they see real signs of growth. 

 "Thus far this year, interest-rate cuts have been steep and they've promised a lot, but we haven't seen those promises fulfilled yet in the (gross domestic product) numbers or in the industrial production numbers," Mr. Dolfin said. 

 Despite a rally in U.S. bond prices as interest rates fall, domestic-currency bonds in Asia haven't seen much relative price action because some governments have been wary about lowering interest rates and putting their currencies in peril. In Thailand, the central bank raised interbank rates last month, sparking fears of a rise in long-term interest rates and a consequent fall in bond prices. 

 Meanwhile, banks are weak in many Asian countries, and in most Asian economies banks are flooded with deposits they are loath to lend to debt-laden companies. 

 Some Asian market analysts are growing increasingly bearish about a consumer-led U.S. economic recovery, despite rosy predictions by U.S. economists at brokerage houses that a fourth-quarter comeback is in sight. A raft of weak corporate earnings reports for the second quarter accompanied by gloomy profit forecasts and massive layoffs could portend a weak Christmas sales season this year. That's not good for Asian economies, which are the Christmas-gift makers to the world. 

 "You can usually expect a shift out of bonds into equities three or four months before economic recovery gets under way. But the fact that we're not there yet indicates some of the expectations for a U.S. economic recovery by the fourth quarter were over-optimistic," said Raja Visweswaran, head of Asian debt research at Bank of America Securities. 

 Analysts have largely abandoned hopes that domestic demand will soon develop enough momentum to lift Asian markets out of their dependence on the export-manufacturing sector. 

 Some say the recent U.S. dollar softness against many Asian currencies is only temporary, because exporting Asian countries will suffer until the U.S. and global economies revive. 

 "The fundamentals are still intact for a longer-term depreciation of local currencies relative to the dollar," said Jason Press, Asian-Pacific strategist at Goldman Sachs. "Long-term investors should overlook this temporary weakness (in the dollar) and focus on a global recovery." 
   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | npag : Page-One Story   REasia :  | asiaz : Asia | namz : North America | usa : United States   ANDocument awsj000020010820dx8l0001s  



 HD Federal Reserve  provides seventh rate cut, Wall Street plunges    BY By MARTIN CRUTSINGER    CRAP Economics Writer   WC795 words   PD21 August 2001   ET20:16   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY Copyright 2001.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved. 
   LP WASHINGTON (AP) - The Federal Reserve on Tuesday cut interest rates for a seventh time this year, pushing short-term borrowing costs down to their lowest level in more than seven years in a continuing effort to keep the U.S. economy out of a recession. 

 Wall Street, however, took a steep tumble as investors grew more pessimistic about just when the country would be able to mount a sustainable recovery. 
   TD The Dow Jones industrial average fell by 145 points while both the technology-heavy Nasdaq composite index and the Standard & Poor's 500 index hit four-month lows. 

 "The market is beginning to realize that the economy is not going to roar back to life. It is going to creep out of this hole," said David Wyss, chief economist at Standard & Poor's Co. in New York. 

 The Fed action lowered the federal funds rate, the interest that banks charge on loans to each other, by a quarter-point to 3.5 percent, the second consecutive quarter point move. 

 Those cuts had been preceded by five half-point moves as the Fed made its most aggressive effort in 19 years to reduce borrowing costs as a way to spur a sluggish economy. 

 Commercial banks quickly matched the Fed's latest move, pushing their prime lending rate, the benchmark for millions of consumer and business loans, down to 6.5 percent, the lowest level for the prime rate since the spring of 1994. 

 In explaining the decision, the Fed said it remained concerned that "business profits and capital spending continue to weaken and growth abroad is slowing." 

 However, the central bank struck a more positive tone by noting that "household demand has been sustained." In June, the Fed had worried that consumer demand, which accounts for two-thirds of total economic activity, was growing at a weak rate. 

 Analysts saw the changed view about consumer demand as evidence that Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan and his colleagues are beginning to feel more confident that they have laid the foundation for a sustainable recovery. 

 "The Fed is saying that the economy is poised for a rebound by the end of the year," said Martin Regalia, chief economist at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. 

 Bruce Steinberg, chief economist at Merrill Lynch, estimated the interest rate cuts the Fed has already approved will translate into $50 billion in savings on consumers' borrowing costs. 

 When combined with the nearly $40 billion in tax rebates Americans are receiving and an estimated $30 billion in savings from falling energy prices, Steinberg said the foundation for an economic rebound has been clearly established, although it will not get fully under way until early next year. 

 The Bush administration, which is being forced to slash its estimates of future budget surpluses because of the sluggish economy, is counting on a sizable rebound next year. 

 Its new economic forecast, to be released Wednesday, anticipates growth of 3.2 percent next year, higher than many private analysts foresee. 

 Treasury Secretary Paul O'Neill, commenting Tuesday on the Fed rate cut, said the administration shared the Fed's goals "of maintaining healthy economic growth while preserving low inflation." 

 The Fed in the portion of the statement devoted to the future said it still saw risks weighted toward weakness, a sign that further rate cuts were still a posibility. 

 Many analysts said while they expected the Fed to cut rates at its Oct. 2 meeting, that may be the last rate reduction, if their forecasts prove correct that the economy will be showing increased signs of strength then. 

 "The Fed is getting near the end of its credit easing," said David Jones, chief economist at Aubrey G. Lanston & Co. in New York. 

 The National Association of Manufacturers, which noted that more than 837,000 factory jobs had been lost in the last year, said it would have preferred a half-point rate cut Tuesday, given the problems manufacturers are still facing with spreading weakness in overseas markets. 

 "While the rest of the economy has skated clear of a recession, manufacturing output has declined by 4.8 percent since last September ... comparable in severity to the 1990-91 recession," said NAM President Jerry Jasinowski. 

 That has been the only recession during Greenspan's 14 years as Fed chairman. 

 Growth slowed to an annual rate of just 0.7 percent in the April-June quarter but remained out of negative territory. Many economists believe the second quarter will turn out to be the bottom of year-long slowdown, with growth expected to gradually rebound in the final two quarters of this year. 

 --- 

 On the Net: 

 Fed: http://www.federalreserve.gov
   RFUrgent   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1101 : Economic Growth | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gcon : Consumer Affairs | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States | usw : Western U.S. | uswa : Washington   IPCsldp0740 | sel----- | tagdsp   IPDWashington | AP National News | BC-Fed-Interest Rates | 98d16e6bdd9c88ed2721ef877262e988   ANDocument aprs000020010821dx8l00mkd  



 HD Federal Reserve  provides seventh rate cut, Wall Street plunges    BY By MARTIN CRUTSINGER    CRAP Economics Writer   WC795 words   PD21 August 2001   ET20:14   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY Copyright 2001.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved. 
   LP WASHINGTON (AP) - The Federal Reserve on Tuesday cut interest rates for a seventh time this year, pushing short-term borrowing costs down to their lowest level in more than seven years in a continuing effort to keep the U.S. economy out of a recession. 

 Wall Street, however, took a steep tumble as investors grew more pessimistic about just when the country would be able to mount a sustainable recovery. 
   TD The Dow Jones industrial average fell by 145 points while both the technology-heavy Nasdaq composite index and the Standard & Poor's 500 index hit four-month lows. 

 "The market is beginning to realize that the economy is not going to roar back to life. It is going to creep out of this hole," said David Wyss, chief economist at Standard & Poor's Co. in New York. 

 The Fed action lowered the federal funds rate, the interest that banks charge on loans to each other, by a quarter-point to 3.5 percent, the second consecutive quarter point move. 

 Those cuts had been preceded by five half-point moves as the Fed made its most aggressive effort in 19 years to reduce borrowing costs as a way to spur a sluggish economy. 

 Commercial banks quickly matched the Fed's latest move, pushing their prime lending rate, the benchmark for millions of consumer and business loans, down to 6.5 percent, the lowest level for the prime rate since the spring of 1994. 

 In explaining the decision, the Fed said it remained concerned that "business profits and capital spending continue to weaken and growth abroad is slowing." 

 However, the central bank struck a more positive tone by noting that "household demand has been sustained." In June, the Fed had worried that consumer demand, which accounts for two-thirds of total economic activity, was growing at a weak rate. 

 Analysts saw the changed view about consumer demand as evidence that Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan and his colleagues are beginning to feel more confident that they have laid the foundation for a sustainable recovery. 

 "The Fed is saying that the economy is poised for a rebound by the end of the year," said Martin Regalia, chief economist at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. 

 Bruce Steinberg, chief economist at Merrill Lynch, estimated the interest rate cuts the Fed has already approved will translate into $50 billion in savings on consumers' borrowing costs. 

 When combined with the nearly $40 billion in tax rebates Americans are receiving and an estimated $30 billion in savings from falling energy prices, Steinberg said the foundation for an economic rebound has been clearly established, although it will not get fully under way until early next year. 

 The Bush administration, which is being forced to slash its estimates of future budget surpluses because of the sluggish economy, is counting on a sizable rebound next year. 

 Its new economic forecast, to be released Wednesday, anticipates growth of 3.2 percent next year, higher than many private analysts foresee. 

 Treasury Secretary Paul O'Neill, commenting Tuesday on the Fed rate cut, said the administration shared the Fed's goals "of maintaining healthy economic growth while preserving low inflation." 

 The Fed in the portion of the statement devoted to the future said it still saw risks weighted toward weakness, a sign that further rate cuts were still a posibility. 

 Many analysts said while they expected the Fed to cut rates at its Oct. 2 meeting, that may be the last rate reduction, if their forecasts prove correct that the economy will be showing increased signs of strength then. 

 "The Fed is getting near the end of its credit easing," said David Jones, chief economist at Aubrey G. Lanston & Co. in New York. 

 The National Association of Manufacturers, which noted that more than 837,000 factory jobs had been lost in the last year, said it would have preferred a half-point rate cut Tuesday, given the problems manufacturers are still facing with spreading weakness in overseas markets. 

 "While the rest of the economy has skated clear of a recession, manufacturing output has declined by 4.8 percent since last September ... comparable in severity to the 1990-91 recession," said NAM President Jerry Jasinowski. 

 That has been the only recession during Greenspan's 14 years as Fed chairman. 

 Growth slowed to an annual rate of just 0.7 percent in the April-June quarter but remained out of negative territory. Many economists believe the second quarter will turn out to be the bottom of year-long slowdown, with growth expected to gradually rebound in the final two quarters of this year. 

 --- 

 On the Net: 

 Fed: http://www.federalreserve.gov
   RFUrgent   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1101 : Economic Growth | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gcon : Consumer Affairs | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States | usw : Western U.S. | uswa : Washington   IPCslda0715 | sel----- | tagdsa   IPDWashington | AP National News | BC-Fed-Interest Rates | 98d16e6bdd9c88ed2721ef877262e988   ANDocument aprs000020010821dx8l00mkb  



 HDFRONT PAGE - FIRST SECTION - Fed rate cut expected today FINANCIAL MARKETS ON WATCH FOR SIGNS OF HALT ...   BYBy GERARD BAKER and PERONET DESPEIGNES.    WC602 words   PD21 August 2001   SNFinancial Times   SCFTFT   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPFRONT PAGE - FIRST SECTION - Fed rate cut expected today FINANCIAL MARKETS ON WATCH FOR SIGNS OF HALT TO CYCLE OF AGGRESSIVE MONETARY EASING IN US.

The Federal Reserve is today likely to cut short-term interest rates for the seventh time this year, as financial markets shift attention to whether the US central bank plans any further cuts or is preparing to call a halt to its most aggressive easing in more than a decade.
   TDThe Fed's policy-making open market committee is widely expected to cut its target for the federal funds rate - its key monetary policy instrument - by a quarter of a percentage point to 3.5 per cent, bringing the cumulative reduction in interest rates this year to 3 percentage points.

With mixed signals on whether the US economy is "hitting bottom", much attention will focus on what hints the monetary policymakers give about possible future interest rate moves. If the Fed cuts by 25 basis points as expected, the main focus will be on the so-called "tilt" of monetary policy - whether the committee thinks the economic risks continue to be weighted towards weakness rather than inflation.

Though most financial market economists think the Fed is unlikely to change the tilt, many believe today's expected rate cut will be the last in the current cycle. They argue that the dramatic easing so far this year will only be felt fully over the next few months. They believe the monetary easing, combined with $38bn ( #26bn) in tax rebates being mailed to Americans this quarter, should turn the economy around from its sharp slowdown.

With signs of a possible flattening in the steep slide in manufacturing, and still robust consumer demand, the possibility that the Fed might be finished seems to be rising. The latest positive sign came yesterday from a prominent gauge of US growth prospects, which continued to signal an eventual recovery. The Conference Board said its index of leading economic indicators rose for the third consecutive month in July, by 0.3 per cent.

A surge in the money supply, falling unemployment insurance claims and improvements in a measure of consumer expectations were among five components which pushed the composite index higher. The Board credited the Federal Reserve's aggressive monetary easing this year as a primary factor.

But in a testament to the economy's weakness and continued uncertainty, index components measuring equity prices and home-building permits fell, while measures of factory orders were flat.

Other indicators continue to look gloomy. The Fed's own "Beige Book" survey of economic conditions, published two weeks ago, suggested the weakness was intensifying after an early summer pause - and spreading from the downturn in investment and the factory sector to a more broad-based deceleration. And some economists have speculated that the Fed might opt for a 50 basis point cut today, though financial market futures were yesterday strongly pointing to a 25 basis point cut.

Revisions of official GDP figures scheduled for release next Wednesday are expected to show that the US economy did not grow for the first time in more than seven years. The initial estimate of second quarter GDP put economic growth at a meagre 0.7 per cent in the three months to June, but new data on business inventories and trade have indicated that the revision could report the economy contracted. What they said about the dollar, Page 17; Editorial Comment, Page 16; www.ft.com/fomc. 
   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | npag : Page-One Story   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPCInterest'sp'Rates | Forecasts'sp''amp''sp'Predictions | Economic'sp'News | Economic'sp'Indicators | Federal'sp'Reserve'sp'USA | United'sp'States'sp'of'sp'America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument ftft000020010821dx8l000dg  



 HDLEADER - Better to be bold.   WC470 words   PD21 August 2001   SNFinancial Times   SCFTFT   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPThe US Federal Reserve's efforts to loosen US monetary policy have not been enough to revive the economy. Alan Greenspan, Fed chairman, should therefore cut interest rates again today.

That much is agreed almost universally in the financial markets and among economists. Articulating the Fed's challenge - to ease policy enough to keep consumers spending but not so much as to fire up the boom conditions of 2000 - is also easy.
   TDBut since the effects of monetary policy have become less predictable, what is much more difficult is to gauge how far the Fed should go. The choice is a fine one: between cutting rates by a quarter or by half a percentage point.

The Federal Open Market Committee last met in June. Since then, most measures of the strength of demand have remained weak. The Fed's "Beige Book" summary of regional conditions showed economic growth at a standstill last month. Initial estimates indicated that gross domestic product grew at an annual rate of only 0.7 per cent in the second quarter, with exports in the doldrums and investment sharply down. Profits and productivity growth have also been revised down. Industrial output has fallen for 10 months in a row. Retail sales have been flat, although consumer sentiment has been improving.

Reducing the Federal Funds rate should boost demand in three ways: by reducing long-term interest rates, on which most new mortgages are based; by reducing the value of the dollar; and by increasing equity values. But this year long-term interest rates have fallen only slightly, the dollar has risen until recently and share prices have fallen. Goldman Sachs estimates financial conditions are tighter now than last year, in spite of the Fed's 2 3/4 percentage point interest rate cuts since January.

Weakness in the real economy and the risk of a further spiral downwards are not by themselves sufficient to justify a half-point interest rate cut. The absence of inflationary pressure is also necessary. The US economy satisfies both these conditions. Retail energy prices are falling sharply and the annual rate of inflation declined to 2.7 per cent in July from 3.2 per cent the previous month.

The case for a smaller cut rests on expectations for the delayed impact of the monetary easing and the $300 tax rebate cheques, amounting to 0.5 per cent of gross domestic product, landing on households' doormats.

So long as Mr Greenspan indicates the Fed's readiness to raise rates again if consumer demand takes off, there are few risks associated with a larger cut.

The Fed should bring interest rates down to 3 1/4 per cent, their lowest rate since March 1994, but it should also indicate that the balance of risks is now neutral. 
   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPCRecession'sp''amp''sp'Recovery | Interest'sp'Rates | Comment'sp''amp''sp'Analysis | Economic'sp'News | Economic'sp'Indicators | United'sp'States'sp'of'sp'America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument ftft000020010821dx8l000d0  



 HDFed likely to cut interest rates.   BYBy GERARD BAKER AND PERONET DESPEIGNES IN WASHINGTON.    WC452 words   PD21 August 2001   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPThe US Federal Reserve is on Tuesday likely to cut short-term interest rates for the seventh time this year but analysts will be on the alert for signs that the central bank may soon call a halt to its most aggressive easing in more than decade.

The Fed's policy-making open market committee is widely expected to cut its target for the federal funds rate - its key monetary policy instrument - by a quarter of a percentage point to 3.5 per cent, bringing the cumulative reduction in interest rates since the start of the year to 3 percentage points.
   TDHowever, fed funds futures prices have rallied in recent weeks, registering the possibility of a half-point cut.

With mixed signals on whether the US economy is "hitting bottom" in the current quarter, attention will focus on how the monetary policymakers explain their decision and what hints they give about possible future interest rate moves.

If the Fed cuts by 25 basis points as expected, the main focus will be on the statement policymakers issue with the rate change, especially its so-called "tilt" of monetary policy - whether the committee thinks the economic risks continue to be weighted towards weakness rather than inflation, or whether they are neutral.

Most economists expect the central bank to retain its policy bias towards easing, but its statement may offer other clues about its assessment of economic prospects.

Many investors and economists now believe Tuesday's expected easing will be the last in the current cycle - a view reflected in financial futures markets. They argue that, given the lags with which monetary policy works, the dramatic easing so far this year will only be felt fully over the next few months.

They predict that the monetary easing, combined with $38bn in tax rebates being mailed to US homes in the current quarter, should turn the economy around from its sharp slowdown over the last year.

The latest positive sign came on Monday from a prominent gauge of US growth prospects, which continued to signal an eventual recovery.

The Conference Board said its index of leading economic indicators rose for the third consecutive month in July, by 0.3 per cent. The board said that signalled that economic "conditions may be improving".

Other indicators continue to look gloomy. The Fed's own "Beige Book" survey of economic conditions, published two weeks ago, suggested that weakness was intensifying after an early summer pause.

Revisions of official GDP figures scheduled for release next Wednesday are widely expected to show the US economy did not grow for the first time in more than seven years. 
   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument ftcom00020010821dx8l000bw  



 CLMThe Outlook   HD Companies Cash In On Corporate Bonds    BY By Greg Ip    WC891 words   PD20 August 2001   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGA1   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 2001, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP Washington -- The Federal Reserve's interest-rate cuts haven't done much to lift stock investors' spirits. But it's a different story in the corporate-bond market, where borrowing costs have tumbled, unleashing a torrent of issues that has smashed full-year records. 

 The problem is, companies for the most part aren't spending the money. After years of investing liberally in new facilities and equipment, buying other companies and repurchasing their own stock, companies have suddenly made cash conservation a priority. 
   TD Carpenter Technology Corp., a Reading, Pa., stainless-steel and specialty alloy maker, issued $100 million of 10-year notes earlier this month to enthusiastic demand, but the proceeds are going to paying down a credit line, not capital spending. The company has just come off a five-year, $500 million modernization and expansion plan, and now wants to shore up its balance sheet by getting its debt down and, it hopes, its credit rating up. "We're in a cyclical industry and we think it's the prudent way to manage the company," says Treasurer Jaime Vasquez. Besides, as "any industry paper" will tell you, "there is excess capacity in this industry." 

 Companies everywhere have reached the same conclusion. So far this year, nonfinancial companies have issued a staggering $195 billion in bonds, blowing past the 1998 full-year record of $153 billion, according to Thomson Financial Securities Data. At the same time, capital spending has fallen at an annualized rate of 8%, an indication that companies aren't putting the bond proceeds to work in ways that would stimulate future economic activity. 

 This illustrates a conundrum facing the Fed. It can do a lot to lower the cost of borrowing, but it can't make borrowers, especially businesses, spend. Capital investment fueled the late-1990s boom, and a lot of it was financed with debt. The financing gap -- the shortfall between corporate investment needs and internally generated cash -- soared to $265 billion last year from $65 billion a decade earlier, and as a share of nonfinancial corporate output, it hit 4.9%, its highest since 1974. That gap had to be financed by borrowing or issuing stock, leaving investment plans vulnerable to the mood of the markets. 

 For most of the 1990s, that wasn't a problem. Investors cared more about profit growth than strong balance sheets, and companies obliged by borrowing to expand, to acquire other companies, and buy back their own stock, at the expense of creditworthiness. Beginning in the third quarter of 1998, Standard & Poor's began downgrading more corporate issuers than it upgraded, a trend that has continued for 12 straight quarters, surpassing the 11-quarter streak of 1989-92. 

 Back then, leveraged buyouts and reckless bank lending left a legacy of overleveraged borrowers and weakened lenders, producing a credit crunch that starved the economy of funds even as the Fed drove interest rates to rock-bottom lows. Today, leverage is lower and banks are healthier. But business investment is weaker, because cash flow is plummeting and poor economic prospects have reduced the incentive to upgrade equipment or expand. 

 Steve Zamsky, corporate-bond strategist at Morgan Stanley, says while there isn't a credit crunch on the scale of a decade ago, several high-profile events have made companies worry about access to capital. Several major commercial-paper issuers defaulted, shaking up a market that rarely experiences default. Some of the credit ratings on Lucent Technologies and Xerox, once corporate highfliers, were downgraded to junk-bond status, and the companies were forced to sell off pieces of themselves to get their debt burdens down. 

 "These are companies that were held in reverence by a lot of managers not long ago, so there's a lesson there for managers: You have to watch your balance sheet," says Mr. Zamsky. 

 Investors have responded favorably to this newfound frugality. As business investment has plunged, so have interest rates on investment-grade corporate bonds relative to those on safer Treasurys, handing investors in corporate bonds one of their best years, so far, of relative performance ever, though it weakened in the past week. Companies have thus benefited from lower borrowing costs and reduced reliance on short-term borrowing that can be yanked in a crisis. 

 For this, the Fed gets the credit, says David Goldman, global credit strategist at Credit Suisse First Boston. While the Fed directly influences only short-term rates, it has brought down long-term corporate-bond rates by reducing investors' fear of default, he says. In contrast to stocks, corporate bonds have greeted the Fed's actions "with choruses of glory, hallelujah," he says. 

 By helping companies shape up their balance sheets, the Fed has put conditions in place for more business investment. Getting companies to actually spend requires a belief that their markets and cash flow will improve. Until then, cash preservation comes first. Nortel Networks surprised many by managing to issue $1.8 billion in convertible bonds this month at a relatively low yield of 4.25%. The company hasn't detailed what the money's for, but with investors scrutinizing its cash position, the money isn't likely to go into new facilities. As Mr. Zamsky says, "In a credit crunch, he who has the least debt wins." 
   COcarp : Carpenter Technology Corporation   INi22 : Primary Metals | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | i3301 : Electronic Office Equipment | i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i3303 : Networking | i7902 : Telecommunications | i814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | icnp : Consumer Products | icomp : Computing | ielec : Electronics | imet : Metals/Mining   NSc15 : Performance | c152 : Earnings Projections | c1521 : Analyst Comment/Recommendation | c17 : Funding/Capital | c172 : Corporate Debt Instruments | c174 : Corporate Credit Ratings | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nedc : Commentary/Opinion | npag : Page-One Story   REnamz : North America | usa : United States | use : Northeast U.S.   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument j000000020010820dx8k00031  



 HD Analysis - FOMC on Track for Another Modest Rate Cut.    BY By Steven K. Beckner    WC1,159 words   PD20 August 2001   ET21:16   SNMarket News International   SCMARNEW   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001. Market News International, Inc.
   LP Market News International - Federal Reserve policymakers will be convening Tuesday, amid what some freely acknowledge is a bewildering mix of economic and financial signals, to reconsider their short-term interest rate setting. 

 The Fed's policymaking Federal Open Market Committee is widely expected to cut rates for what would be the seventh time this year. But the FOMC is unlikely to agree on anything more than a 25 basis point cut in the federal funds rate, which would take it to 3.5%, after a cumulative 300 basis points of easing. 
   TD Even at the May 15 FOMC meeting, the last for which minutes have been released, resistance had started to develop to aggressive easing. Kansas City Fed President Thomas Hoenig's dissent against a 50 basis point rate cut at that meeting was followed by a more incremental 25 basis point cut on June 27. 

 Since then, there have been continued discouraging developments, but there have also been some hopeful signs. And officials are not anxious to depress the funds rate any further or faster than absolutely necessary. 

 On the downside, where the Fed has focused since last November, the Fed's most recent beige book survey stated bluntly that "sustained weakness in the manufacturing sector spilled over to other businesses" over the past month or more. 

 This "spillover" occurred as "manufacturing activity in nearly all sectors and regions declined further in recent months as producers adjusted to weak domestic and foreign demand and worked through accumulated inventories," according to the beige book summary, which was based on what business and other contacts told the 12 Federal Reserve Banks before July 30. 

 Those findings have been largely confirmed by other surveys and statistical releases. 

 The Fed's own industrial production report showed output by factories, mines and utilities falling for the 10th consecutive month in July. Manufacturing output alone was unchanged, thanks largely to a big increase in assembly of cars and light trucks. But there was further weakness in home electronics and appliances, and manufacturing of business equipment continued to slide. 

 The National Association of Purchasing Management's index of manufacturing activity fell from 44.7 to 43.6 in July, and an apparent spillover sent NAPM's non-manufacturing index plunging to a contractionary 48.9. Both manufacturing and non-manufacturing sectors suffered from declining new orders. 

 Spillover also seemed evident in the July employment report, in which another 49,000 drop in factory jobs was accompanied by very slim gains in construction and service jobs. 

 Both the beige book and the employment report also showed that the second quarter's deceleration in labor compensation gains continued in the third quarter, at the same time that companies were reducing hours worked. While the resulting drop in unit labor costs and increase in productivity are a boon for business profit margins and a potential spur to capital investment, they leave consumer spending in doubt. 

 The beige book said retail sales were "generally sluggish and frequently below expectations, despite substantial discounting on a wide range of consumer goods." It went on to say that "the weakness in retail sales was broad-based across product lines and types of outlets." 

 Actual retail sales figures from the Commerce Department were less negative than the beige book's anecdotal findings suggested, though they were hardly strong. Sales were unchanged last month, and prior months' totals were revised lower. Excluding anemic purchases of autos, sales were up 0.2%. 

 Though disappointing, the retail sales numbers were not as weak as many had feared. In part, the sales figures were depressed by a record 4.2% drop in gas station sales, which reflected the recent fall in gasoline prices. Excluding gas, retail sales were up 0.3%. There were also some encouraging signs of strength. There were sales gains in such categories as food, furniture, electronics, sporting goods, health care and general merchandise. 

 As tax rebates continue to arrive in the mail, the Fed has reason to hope that spending on consumer durables will show further strength, especially if the recent trend of lower jobless claims continues. 

 Another encouraging sign for the Fed was July's increase in residential construction. Instead of declining as many had feared, housing starts rose 2.8% and were 13.2% ahead of a year ago. On the other hand, building permits, an indicator of future construction activity, fell 1.9%. 

 Stock prices have been on the soft side, but have not continued to go to lower and lower lows, which tends to limit the Fed's concern about additional negative wealth effects. Moreover, home values have generally risen, as Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan has pointed out, helping offset losses in the equity market. 

 Kathleen Camilli, chief economist for Tucker Anthony, points to another, less-noticed positive for the economy - what she calls "the reliquefication of household balance sheets." Consumer credit fell in July as households strove to reduce debt service as a percent of disposable income, refinancing and paying down mortgages. Businesses have likewise been restructuring their balance sheets. 

 Then too, lower energy costs are helping households and firms alike. 

 But while there are enough positives to limit further Fed easing, there does not appear to be enough to prevent it. The weakness of the dollar, while it could become a concern if it were to continue, seems unlikely to dissuade the FOMC from making another modest rate cut. The Fed has long anticipated some reversal of the dollar's previous strength. 

 Inflation is not an issue in the minds of most Fed officials in the current economic climate. And last week's report that consumer prices fell in July, while rising just 0.2% excluding food and energy, gave the Fed leeway to take at least one more "insurance" rate cut. 

 Another 25 basis point cut would take the funds rate to its lowest level since 1994, when the Fed had begun to double the funds rate from an anti-recessionary 3%. Barring a negative surprise of some sort, 3.5% could prove to be the bottom, even though the FOMC seems likely to tilt toward further easing at this meeting. There is certainly no destiny requiring that the Fed return to 3%. 

 The Fed has been pumping huge amounts of liquidity into the economy, which might have something to do with the dollar's softness. Money supply growth was the biggest positive contributor driving up the Conference Board's index of leading economic indicators by 0.3% for the fourth straight month in July. 

 Although inflation is almost an afterthought now, the Fed has to look beyond the current slump to a time of recovery when the economy will be feeling the lagged effects of its easing. Hoenig is not the only official who wants to limit the amount of easing the Fed has to eventually undo. 

 [TOPICS: MNSFED,MMUFE$,MAUDS$,M$U 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | nanl : Analysis | ncat : Content Types   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   ANDocument marnew0020010821dx8k0005p  



 HDEquity gains hit US Treasuries.   BYBy JENNY WIGGINS IN NEW YORK, ARKADY OSTROVSKY IN LONDON AND KEN HIJINO IN TOKYO.     WC614 words   PD20 August 2001   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2001 The Financial Times Ltd. All rights reserved. Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the web.  
   LPStock market gains and profit-taking ahead of an expected interest rate cut pushed US Treasuries lower on Monday.

Treasuries had risen last week on signs of continued economic weakness.
   TDThe Federal Reserve's Open Market Committee is widely expected to cut the Federal funds rate by another 25 basis points on Tuesday to continue to stimulate the US economy.

"We expect them to help bail us out of a slowdown," said James Caron, fixed-income strategist at Merrill Lynch.

Mr Caron said the Fed was likely to cut rates by 25bp rather than 50bp to avoid creating panic in the markets. A 50bp cut would "shock" the market, he said. "I don't think the Fed wants to alarm anybody."

Stock market strength also helped push Treasuries down yesterday. The Dow Jones Industrial Average closed up 79 points while the Nasdaq index gained 14.

In late trading, the US Treasury 10-year note fell 9/16 to 10021/32, yielding 4.914 per cent and the 30-year bond also lost 9/16 to 9825/32 with a yield of 5.458 per cent. The two-year note dropped 1/8 to 1009/32, yielding 3.723 per cent.

The Conference Board's index of leading economic indicators rose 0.3 per cent in July, slightly more than expected, but had little impact on the market. The board claimed the rise was indicative of some strength in the economy.

In the eurozone, bond prices fell at the long end of the curve but most investors were waiting for cues from today's FOMC meeting. "The bond market is lacking an impetus," one trader said.

The 10-year German Bund yield was up 1.4 basis points to 4.471 per cent while the two year Schatz bond yield fell 0.6bp to 3.962 per cent. The 10-year bund future was down 0.10 to 109.29.

Investors are also focusing on the European Central Bank's meeting on August 30, with some expecting a cut of as much as 50bp.

"The market is slowly coming round to the view that the ECB could cut [interest rates] by 25bp," said David Brown of Bear Stearns, who said the ECB could cut rates by as much as 50bp. In London, UK gilt prices fell slightly. The 10-year gilt future fell 0.23 to 115.80.

Japanese government bonds slipped amid thin trading as investors stayed on the sidelines ahead of a 10-year bond auction.

The market has been unnerved by fears that there may be inadequate appetite to digest Y1,700bn worth of new 10-year JGBs that the Ministry of Finance will be offering on Tuesday.

Analysts noted that investors were restraining themselves from pushing the yield of the current benchmark too low to avoid a lower coupon yield on the new JGBs issued on Tuesday. The MoF sets coupon yields based on the current yield of the benchmark bond.

Regardless of the level of the coupon yield, analysts said that the auction could be a difficult one, especially as institutional investors continue to lock into profits by selling JGBs ahead of book-closing in September.

Share prices extended losses for the fourth consecutive day, adding to concern that banks would have to offset equity portfolio losses by selling bonds.

The key September 10-year JGB futures contract fell 0.05 to 140.20.

The benchmark No 233 10-year cash JGB fell 0.175 to 100.434, pushing up the yield by 0.020 to 1.350 per cent. 
   NSmntdbt : National Government Debt/Bond Markets | e1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTCOM00020051017dx8k00j8z  



 HDEquity gains hit US Treasuries.   BYBy JENNY WIGGINS IN NEW YORK, ARKADY OSTROVSKY IN LONDON AND KEN HIJINO IN TOKYO.     WC614 words   PD20 August 2001   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2001 The Financial Times Ltd. All rights reserved. Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the web.  
   LPStock market gains and profit-taking ahead of an expected interest rate cut pushed US Treasuries lower on Monday.

Treasuries had risen last week on signs of continued economic weakness.
   TDThe Federal Reserve's Open Market Committee is widely expected to cut the Federal funds rate by another 25 basis points on Tuesday to continue to stimulate the US economy.

"We expect them to help bail us out of a slowdown," said James Caron, fixed-income strategist at Merrill Lynch.

Mr Caron said the Fed was likely to cut rates by 25bp rather than 50bp to avoid creating panic in the markets. A 50bp cut would "shock" the market, he said. "I don't think the Fed wants to alarm anybody."

Stock market strength also helped push Treasuries down yesterday. The Dow Jones Industrial Average closed up 79 points while the Nasdaq index gained 14.

In late trading, the US Treasury 10-year note fell 9/16 to 10021/32, yielding 4.914 per cent and the 30-year bond also lost 9/16 to 9825/32 with a yield of 5.458 per cent. The two-year note dropped 1/8 to 1009/32, yielding 3.723 per cent.

The Conference Board's index of leading economic indicators rose 0.3 per cent in July, slightly more than expected, but had little impact on the market. The board claimed the rise was indicative of some strength in the economy.

In the eurozone, bond prices fell at the long end of the curve but most investors were waiting for cues from today's FOMC meeting. "The bond market is lacking an impetus," one trader said.

The 10-year German Bund yield was up 1.4 basis points to 4.471 per cent while the two year Schatz bond yield fell 0.6bp to 3.962 per cent. The 10-year bund future was down 0.10 to 109.29.

Investors are also focusing on the European Central Bank's meeting on August 30, with some expecting a cut of as much as 50bp.

"The market is slowly coming round to the view that the ECB could cut [interest rates] by 25bp," said David Brown of Bear Stearns, who said the ECB could cut rates by as much as 50bp. In London, UK gilt prices fell slightly. The 10-year gilt future fell 0.23 to 115.80.

Japanese government bonds slipped amid thin trading as investors stayed on the sidelines ahead of a 10-year bond auction.

The market has been unnerved by fears that there may be inadequate appetite to digest Y1,700bn worth of new 10-year JGBs that the Ministry of Finance will be offering on Tuesday.

Analysts noted that investors were restraining themselves from pushing the yield of the current benchmark too low to avoid a lower coupon yield on the new JGBs issued on Tuesday. The MoF sets coupon yields based on the current yield of the benchmark bond.

Regardless of the level of the coupon yield, analysts said that the auction could be a difficult one, especially as institutional investors continue to lock into profits by selling JGBs ahead of book-closing in September.

Share prices extended losses for the fourth consecutive day, adding to concern that banks would have to offset equity portfolio losses by selling bonds.

The key September 10-year JGB futures contract fell 0.05 to 140.20.

The benchmark No 233 10-year cash JGB fell 0.175 to 100.434, pushing up the yield by 0.020 to 1.350 per cent. 
   NSmntdbt : National Government Debt/Bond Markets | e1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument ftcom00020010822dx8k00001  
 Page 1 of 1      2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.


 

 Page 1      2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.

