 


 HD Asia Keeps Watch On U.S. Rate Cut --- Expected Move May Have Little Impact --- Few Analysts See Sustained Rallies    BY By Karen Richardson    CRStaff Reporter   WC875 words   PD7 November 2001   SNThe Asian Wall Street Journal   SCAWSJ   PG1   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 2001, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP HONG KONG -- Having tried to divine the Asian impact of almost one U.S. interest-rate cut a month this year, market watchers are becoming more conservative in managing expectations. Ahead of what was expected to be a cut of between a quarter and half a percentage point cut in the U.S. Tuesday, Asian markets were little changed. 

 U.S. economic-recovery scenarios have been extended to the second quarter of next year at the earliest, with global stock markets seen ticking up in anticipation by early next year, but probably not before. 
   TD "The rate cuts will eventually help in the market turnaround, but it's not going to be a one-day turn," said Jason Press, a member of Goldman Sachs's Asian-Pacific strategy team. 

 Barring a surprisingly sharp cut in interest rates -- or the absence of one -- economists, strategists and investors were expecting another short-term ripple of modest reaction from Asia's stock markets, as has been the case for the most recent of the U.S. Federal Reserve's nine previous cuts this year. 

 Major Asian stock markets generally heralded the expected Fed rate cut with modest gains earlier this week. On Tuesday, Australia rose 1.7%, while Japan's Nikkei 225 Stock Average climbed 1.8%. Korea and New Zealand each edged up while Taiwan and Malaysia ended flat. Singapore and Hong Kong fell slightly. Hong Kong still ranks among the world's worst-performing stock markets with a year-to-date drop of 31%. 

 Safe-haven markets including gold and Asian government bonds were quiet, with spot gold clutching to US$279 in quiet trade for most of Tuesday, sovereign-bond spreads to U.S. Treasury paper narrowing just slightly and already-tight Asian U.S.-dollar corporate-bond spreads staying the same. 

 In the interim, few are forecasting sustained rallies, and some are even predicting consolidation for Asian stock markets that have bounced back recently from abysmally low valuations. 

 Export-oriented Taiwan, home to the world's biggest semiconductor foundry, has rallied 12% since the end of September. By contrast, export-dependent Singapore and Malaysia have edged up 1.2% and fallen 3.7% respectively in the same period. A coming election in Taiwan is perceived by some as an unwanted political uncertainty, but one that doesn't threaten Korea, which has jumped 18% since Sept. 28, the last trading day of the month, said Mr. Press at Goldman, which is underweight Taiwan and overweight Korea. 

 Elizabeth Soon, a Schroder Investment Management fund manager, isn't counting on rate cuts alone to drive stock markets. "A lot of people match low interest rates with good stock-market returns, but that doesn't always happen," said Ms. Soon, who manages Schroder's $70 million Asian Fund. "It depends on where your stock markets were before the cuts started, and in our case, they were very high." 

 Another reason analysts say rates may not work quickly is that with production overcapacity in the U.S., cheaper money isn't likely to provide as fast a stimulus to industrial investment as it would if the economy were running closer to full-tilt. 

 Like Mr. Press, Ms. Soon says the more telling indicator will be the impact the cuts have on private consumption both in the U.S. and in Asia. She said the rate cuts will eventually prompt Asian bank-deposit holders, fixed-income investors and purchasers of capital-guaranteed funds to switch back into the equities markets, especially once private consumption rebounds, 

 Betting on the strength and resilience of the U.S. consumer, Ms. Soon is marginally overweight the Asian technology sector, which she expects will benefit substantially from a consumer-led U.S. recovery. 

 Regional market strategists such as Ajay Kapur at Morgan Stanley are recommending investors spread their bets now in both the growth and consumer sectors, with the markets of Taiwan, Korea and Singapore as their top picks followed by India and Hong Kong/China. 

 Mr. Kapur expects a strong rebound in the low valuations, drawing a parallel between the current economic environment and that of 1992, which was followed by a strong bull market the following year. "The markets are looking beyond the valley and they see growth," he said. 

 While strategists aren't predicting a big stock-market rebound after the latest rate cut, they are in agreement that the Fed's move should be welcomed by the world's beleaguered economies. 

 "These Fed cuts tell you the Fed is still on the job, that they realize there is a risk here and that they need to get rates down quickly," said Shane Oliver, Sydney-based manager of Henderson Global Investors' global strategy team and chief economist for the firm, which has $148 billion in total assets under management. "That provides confidence the global economy will turn around within a reasonable space of time." He predicts the U.S. economy will start to improve by the third quarter of next year. 

 --- 

 Journal Link: See an update of the Fed's meeting in the online Journal at WSJ.com/ JournalLinks. 
   COgldmns : The Goldman Sachs Group Incorporated   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | i831 : Financial Investments | i83101 : Investment Banking | i83106 : Securities/Commodity Exchange Activities | ibnk : Banking/Credit | iinv : Investing/Securities   NSc15 : Performance | c152 : Earnings Projections | c1521 : Analyst Comment/Recommendation | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | npag : Page-One Story   REasia :  | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia | china : China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | easiaz : Eastern Asia | hkong : Hong Kong | jap : Japan | malay : Malaysia | namz : North America | nz : New Zealand | seasiaz : Southeast Asia | singp : Singapore | taiwan : Taiwan | usa : United States   ANDocument awsj000020011106dxb70000p  



 HD Fed pushes key  interest rate  to lowest level in 40 years    BY By MARTIN CRUTSINGER    CRAP Economics Writer   WC691 words   PD7 November 2001   ET03:34   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY Copyright 2001.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved. 
   LP WASHINGTON (AP) - The U.S. central bank dropped a key interest rate to its lowest level in 40 years as it battled to prevent the "heightened uncertainty" following the terrorist attacks from sending the country into a deep recession. 

 The Federal Reserve on Tuesday slashed its federal funds rate, the key benchmark for overnight loans, by a half-point to 2 percent and signaled that it was prepared to continue cutting if conditions deteriorate further. 
   TD "The Fed is telling us they are really worried and they will likely move again at their December meeting," said David Seiders, chief economist at the National Association of Home Builders. 

 Wall Street rallied on the news, given that investors had been split over whether the Fed would move by a half-point or a quarter-point. The Dow Jones industrial average ended the day up 150.09 points at 9,591.12, it best close since the attacks and within 14 points of its Sept. 10 level. Other indexes posted gains as well, with the technology-heavy Nasdaq up 41.43 to 1,835.08. 

 The latest rate cut, the 10th this year, was taken against a backdrop of increasingly gloomy statistics indicating that the nation's longest economic expansion - more than a decade of uninterrupted growth - has ended. 

 The government reported last week that the gross domestic product declined at an annual rate of 0.4 percent in the July-September quarter. Many analysts believe the pace of the downturn will accelerate to a drop of 2 percent or more in the current quarter. A recession is traditionally defined as two consecutive quarters of falling GDP. 

 Job cuts in October alone totaled 415,000, the biggest one-month total in 21 years. 

 The concern is that the hundreds of thousands of job layoffs that have occurred since the Sept. 11 attacks will trigger a sharp reduction in consumer spending as more people become fearful of losing their own jobs, deepening and prolonging the recession. 

 The Fed's action, which pushed the funds rate down to its lowest point since September 1961, was quickly matched by commercial banks that reduced their prime lending rate by a half-point. The benchmark for millions of consumer and business loans was cut to 5 percent, its lowest level since June 1972. 

 "Heightened uncertainty and concerns about a deterioration in business conditions both here and abroad are damping economic activity," the Fed said in a four-paragraph statement. 

 The Fed repeated the phrase it employs when it wants to hold out the possibility of further rate cuts, saying that in the near future "the risks are weighted mainly toward conditions that may generate economic weakness." 

 Many economists said the Fed could very well cut rates by another half-point at its last meeting of the year, on Dec. 11. That would push the funds rate down to 1.5 percent, a level last seen in July 1961, when John F. Kennedy was president. 

 Some analysts are worried that plunging consumer confidence and the fears generated by the terrorist attacks and anthrax shipments in the mail will overwhelm the Fed's rate cuts. 

 "The Fed is trying to arrest the slide in the economy and in consumer confidence, but it may be running out of ammunition," said Sung Won Sohn, chief economist at Wells Fargo in Minneapolis. 

 Many economists argued that the Fed's aggressive moves, along with the massive tax cut President George W. Bush pushed through Congress last spring and an additional dlrs 100 billion in economic stimulus now being debated in Congress, should be enough to assure an end to the recession next year. 

 However, while many analysts had expected the rebound to occur in the first three months of next year, the recent string of bad statistics has caused some analysts to predict the recession will last into spring, with the unemployment rate, which shot up to 5.4 percent in October, topping 6 percent before the recovery begins. 

 --- 

 On the Net: 

Federal Reserve: http://www.federalreserve.gov
   RFRush   NSc42 : Labor/Personnel Issues | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | credun : Lay-offs/Redundancies | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1101 : Economic Growth | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gcon : Consumer Affairs | gcrim : Crime/Courts | gterr : Acts of Terror | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States | usdc : Washington DC | uss : Southern U.S. | usw : Western U.S. | uswa : Washington   IPCsldw1848 | selwstm- | tagwsfiler   IPDFinancial/Business | AP Worldstream | BC-US-Fed-Interest Rates | 2fc0fd94768d81a576b0bac24aa29d57   ANDocument aprs000020011107dxb70061x  



 HD Taiwan cuts accommodations rate, discount rate    WC178 words   PD7 November 2001   SNAgence France-Presse   SCAFPR   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright 2001) 
   LP TAIPEI, Nov 7 (AFP) - Taiwan's central bank announced Wednesday a cut in key interest rates to simulate private consumption and investment after rate reduction in the United States. 

 The accommodations with collateral rate, accommodations without collateral rate and discount rate are to be cut by 25 basis points from Thursday while the foreign deposits reserve ratio will be halved to 2.5 percent, the bank said in a statement. 
   TD Accommodations with collateral rate will be cut to 2.625 percent from 2.875 percent, accommodations without collateral rate to 4.50 percent from 4.75 percent while the discount rate to 2.25 percent from 2.50 percent, it said. 

 The foreign deposit reserve ratio will be cut to 2.5 percent from five percent. 

 The move was aimed at boosting private consumption and investment as overseas demand remained sluggish amid global economic slowdown, it said. 

 The rate reduction, the 11th since December, came after US Federal Reserve policymakers slashed key interest rate to a 40-year low Tuesday. 

 yc/dv 
   INi814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REasiaz : Asia | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America | taiwan : Taiwan | usa : United States   IPDInternational | SEQN: 0309   ANDocument afpr000020011107dxb70073s  



 HD Parallel Woes: Is the U.S. Economy At Risk of Emulating Japan's Long Swoon? --- In Both Countries, Rates Are Low, but Debt Is Heavy; America's Freer Markets --- One Burst Bubble vs. Two    BY By Jacob M. Schlesinger and Peter Landers    CRStaff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal   WC3,156 words   PD7 November 2001   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGA1   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 2001, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP The Federal Reserve's decision to cut its benchmark interest rate to 2%, its 10th rate cut this year, moves the U.S. central bank closer to the day when it runs out of rate-cutting ammunition. And that raises an unsettling question: Could the U.S. be going down the same dismal economic path trod by Japan a decade ago? 

 With each passing week, the similarities increase. In the 1980s, Japan was considered the model capitalist economy; in the 1990s, the U.S. held that distinction. In both cases, the good times ended with the bursting of a stock-market bubble, pricked, at least in part, by a nervous central bank. In both cases, predictions of a quick turnaround proved to be wrong. 
   TD The excessive American investment in fiber-optic high-speed phone lines echoes Japan's decade-earlier investment binge in memory-chip factories. The plight of one well-respected American company, Enron Corp. -- which has lost two-thirds of its market value in just three weeks -- is reminiscent of the previously invisible weakness Japan's slump exposed at many of that country's banks. Even the recent squabbling in the U.S. Congress that threatens to derail a package of economic-stimulus measures sounds eerily similar to the bureaucratic and political wrangling that stymied bold fixes in Japan. 

 And now, U.S. monetary policy, considered to be the most powerful tool for countering the nation's downturns, is looking increasingly like Japan's, as interest rates fall toward zero. 

 Japan has endured a decade of stagnation. Could that happen here? 

 Most analysts continue to answer with a resounding no. They point out that Japan burst not just a stock-market bubble, but also a real-estate bubble, which in turn laid low its banking system. The U.S. bubble appears to have been limited to stocks, and the American banking system remains strong. 

 U.S. policy makers also insist that they are wiser than their Japanese counterparts, in part because they have learned from Japan's mistakes. And, they add, the U.S. economic and political system is more flexible than Japan's and better able to make the necessary repairs. 

 "It's easy to raise the suspicion that the Japanese and American economies have some similarities," U.S. Treasury Secretary Paul O'Neill said in a recent interview. "I don't think it's apt to make a comparison." Among other things, he says: "They're not an open economy. One of the things that has really been beneficial to our economy is this openness and the challenge that we have permitted to come in here, from foreign suppliers from all over the world. . . ." 

 Moreover, the U.S. central bank hasn't yet exhausted its rate-cutting options. In announcing its half-point rate cut yesterday, the Fed's policy committee made clear that it remained poised to keep cutting rates down into the 1% range if deemed necessary. "For the foreseeable future," it declared, "the risks are weighted mainly toward conditions that may generate economic weakness." 

 U.S. markets have rallied in recent weeks on the assumption that the Fed still will be able to turn things around by next year. Indeed, after trading a bit lower yesterday in the hours before the Fed's 2:15 p.m. EST rate announcement, the Dow Jones Industrial Average soared 150.09 points, or 1.59%, to finish at 9591.12, just 14 points below its close the day before the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks on the U.S. 

 Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan continues to cling to his faith in the U.S. economy's future. "The long-term prospects for productivity growth and the economy remain favorable and should become evident once the unusual forces restraining demand abate," the Fed said in its statement yesterday. 

 Yet the Japanese were no less confident about their economy a decade ago, even as it slipped into prolonged crisis. "Our foundations are solid," declared Bank of Japan Governor Yasushi Mieno, as he started cutting interest rates in 1991. 

 Japan's Nikkei Stock Average peaked near 40000 in December 1989. But in 1991, when three leading economic institutes issued long-term forecasts for Japan through the next decade and beyond, each saw long-term economic growth continuing at between 3% and 5% a year. Instead, the country grew at an annual average of 1.1% between 1992 and 2000. 

 In April 1992, as the Nikkei appeared to be hitting bottom at 17000, a consensus of a dozen top forecasters still foresaw Japanese economic growth for the following year at between 2% and 3%. It ended up growing 0.4%. Today, the Nikkei hovers around 10000, and the Japanese economy is back in its fourth recession of the past decade. 

 One reason for the unexpected length and depth of Japan's decline is that its 1980s bubble created a myriad of destructive excesses, many of which became evident only after the bubble popped. For example, it wasn't until 1991 that real-estate prices started falling -- and many analysts thought that decline would be temporary. It wasn't until the mid-1990s that economists saw how severely the fall in real-estate prices had hurt Japan's big banks. 

 Those bad investments continue to haunt Japanese banks. The banks didn't lend so much directly to real-estate speculators; instead, much of the money went through intermediaries such as non-bank finance companies and construction companies. Today, many of those contractors are near insolvency, and the banks may have to take huge write-offs. "We recognized that it would take a long time to be fixed, but even so, we thought that would mean two or three years," Yoshimasa Nishimura, a former head of the Japanese Finance Ministry's banking bureau, says of the bubble. 

 And it took manufacturers many years to recognize that the capacity they had built up during the bubble was never going to be used. Auto makers manufactured 13.5 million vehicles, including trucks and buses, in Japan in 1990. The number fell off gradually after that and now stands at about 10 million per year. For years, companies kept excess capacity and workers, betting that the falloff was temporary. 

 When Japan's economy first slowed, there was widespread confidence that its government could easily manage the downturn. In the 1980s, the country's fabled bureaucrats had a sterling reputation for economic management, much as Mr. Greenspan did in the U.S. during the 1990s. With short-term interest rates at 6% and a budget surplus of 8.8 trillion yen ($72.3 billion) -- or 2% of gross domestic product -- the Japanese central bank and parliament had plenty of room to cut rates, cut taxes, and boost public spending. 

 The Bank of Japan did ultimately cut rates by almost all six percentage points. Politicians used the full surplus and even let the government run a primary budget deficit -- or deficit excluding bond issuance and repayment -- of 11 trillion yen, or 2% of GDP. But they acted too slowly and in the end failed to jump-start the economy. 

 American policy makers give themselves higher marks for speed of response. The Fed has cut interest rates by 4.5 percentage points in just 10 months. It took the Bank of Japan more than 4 1/2 years to do the same. 

 Moreover, the U.S. Congress has turned unprecedented budget surpluses into almost certain deficits with equal dispatch, passing a massive $1 trillion, 10-year tax cut earlier this year and rapidly approving $40 billion in stimulus measures and a $15 billion airline bailout in the wake of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. Members of Congress now are caught up in a stalemate over a plan for $75 billion to $100 billion in additional stimulus actions, but that, too, has a good chance of enactment before year's end. The Japanese Diet, on the other hand, dallied for a year and a half before passing its first stimulus package. 

 Even more important than the speed of America's policy makers, though, may be the flexibility of the American economy itself. Analysts say the U.S. economy has a more self-cleansing form of capitalism that discourages the many excesses that built up in Japan during the 1980s. 

 A decade ago, the Japanese boasted of having found the secret formula for smoothing out free-market business cycles. Companies had friendly shareholders as well as bankers who provided "patient capital" that allowed for long-term technological investments in spite of weak quarterly earnings. Lifetime employment guarantees gave workers a sense of income security, encouraging them to keep spending during downturns. 

 In retrospect, those same traits seem like weaknesses -- factors that shielded Japanese companies from the free-market pressures that would have made them more efficient. The U.S. system, by contrast, is considered better equipped to shift resources from unproductive to productive uses. 

 Even today, after the decade-long slump, the Japanese company Matsushita Electric Industrial Co. refuses to lay off any of its 130,000 employees in Japan, despite losses that are expected to exceed $2 billion this year. That's a far cry from U.S. companies, such as International Business Machines Corp. and AT&T Corp., which laid off workers even during the boom years, freeing up technology talent to go to newer, fast-growing rivals such as Dell Computer Corp. or Cisco Systems Inc. 

 In part, it is U.S. policy makers' willingness to inflict short-term pain that allows for that flexibility. American officials argue that Japan would have come out of its crisis more quickly if it had handled its banking crisis the way the U.S. handled the American savings and loan crisis in the 1980s. Back then, U.S. government-ordered thrift shutdowns and foreclosures caused shareholders to lose their investments and borrowers to lose their properties. In Japan, failed banks were propped up, and their problems allowed to fester. 

 Still, American-style free markets are hardly immune from excesses, and more and more become apparent the longer the economy idles. Telecom companies spent tens of billions of dollars to lay tens of millions of miles of fiber-optic cables, an estimated 2.6% of which is now being used. 

 Blue-chip American Express Co. ended up writing off more than $1 billion in junk bond investments that were considered relatively low risks until the economy went sour. "Subprime" lender Providian Financial Corp. sent its earnings and stock price soaring in the late 1990s by tapping the once largely ignored pool of consumers with checkered borrowing records. Providian insisted that it used sophisticated models to limit its risks. Nonetheless, it ended up announcing a surprising 71% drop in third-quarter earnings last month, and its stock fell by more than half. 

 More surprises are almost certainly in store. Many analysts argue that the U.S. stock market -- even at more than 25% below its peak -- remains a bubble waiting to deflate further. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index still is trading at a price-to-earnings ratio of between 21 and 28 times earnings, depending on the measurement, and would need to fall at least 30% to reach its historic average P/E ratio of 15, according to the Leuthold Group, a Minneapolis-based investment research firm. 

 To some analysts, the large amount of consumer debt outstanding in the U.S. is the ticking time bomb that could rival the bad loans dragging down Japanese banks. American households borrowed freely and dipped deeply into savings during the 1990s. In good times, with wages and stock portfolios rising, the situation seemed manageable. But now, as income-growth slows and mutual funds shrink, the burden could spin out of control. The Fed estimates that the household debt-service burden -- the ratio of debt payments to after-tax income -- rose above 14% earlier this year for the first time since 1987. At about the same time, the number of Americans filing for personal bankruptcy hit a record 390,064. 

 One reason for the surge in American borrowing has been a sharp increase in the number of new home mortgages and a wave of mortgage refinancing to take advantage of falling interest rates and rising home values. Both home sales and consumer spending, backed by rising housing values, have been rare bright spots over the past year in an otherwise dismal economy. 

 But there are dangers as well. One concern: that the sharp rise in home prices over the past four years -- nearly 20% nationally, when adjusted for inflation, and more than 60% in hot markets such as Silicon Valley, according to the Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight in Washington -- could turn into a miniature version of Japan's real-estate bubble. 

 Another worry: that America's housing market isn't driven entirely by free-market forces. Rather, this theory goes, it is propped up by Japan-like government subsidies and easy loan terms made possible by widespread assumptions that the government would pick up the tab for any defaults. 

 The nation's mortgage market is dominated by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, government-chartered companies that are shareholder-owned but still enjoy various implicit and explicit subsidies, such as tax breaks and an emergency line of credit from the U.S. Treasury. The two Washington-area companies don't actually issue mortgages themselves. Instead, they buy mortgages from lenders and repackage them into tradable securities. In doing so, they play a major role in influencing the size and shape of the market by setting underwriting standards for the loans they purchase. 

 Some conservatives -- including the Fed's Mr. Greenspan -- have expressed concern that Fannie and Freddie, by using government subsidies to expand the housing market, create distortions, drawing capital away from more productive uses. The Congressional Budget Office estimates that the two companies last year enjoyed subsidies totaling $10.6 billion -- a number they say is exaggerated. Other critics say that the companies encourage more, and riskier, lending than a completely free market would allow -- a pattern that may sustain housing demand in the near term but raises the risk of a bigger bust down the road. Japan's woes have been exacerbated by formal and informal government backing for lenders. That includes a Government Housing Loan Corp. that gets a $3 billion annual subsidy and a separate state-run loan guarantee program that keeps many technically bankrupt small businesses afloat. 

 Fannie Mae Chairman Frank Raines rejects the notion of any similarity between his company and Japanese-style subsidies. "Their mortgage corporation has no private-market discipline -- there is no private management, no private equity capital, no private debt capital." Fannie, he says, has all three, as well as tight regulatory standards requiring the company to keep enough capital on hand to withstand a catastrophe. The company's private shareholders, he adds, have every incentive to prevent overly risky lending, since they would lose their investments even if the government were to intervene to back the loans. 

 Elsewhere on the business front, the vaunted flexibility of the American economy -- while perhaps raising efficiency in the long run -- could also serve to intensify a downturn. American corporations' readiness to resort to layoffs at the first sign of weakness risks battering consumer confidence. In the past three months alone, the unemployment rate has soared by nearly a full percentage point -- to 5.4% in October from 4.5% in August, and the U.S. jobless rate once again exceeds Japan's, which after a decade of stagnation still is 5.3%. 

 Even workers supposedly protected by union contracts have a fragile safety net. In the wake of the terrorist attacks, major airlines, such as AMR Corp's American Airlines and Delta Air Lines invoked force majeure clauses in their labor contracts, allowing them to skirt many negotiated protections and dump workers without advance notice. Partly as a result, the Conference Board's index of consumer confidence plunged to 85.5 in October from 114 in August, one of the swiftest declines on record. 

 While Japan's unique circumstances may account for some of its problems, they also may demonstrate a broader and more disturbing point: that policy may at times be relatively powerless to contain the destructive forces of a bursting bubble. 

 As companies are saddled with excess capacity, they have little incentive to borrow to expand, no matter how low interest rates fall. Even after the sharp drop in capital spending over the past year, the percentage of industrial capacity in use in the U.S. in September was just 75.5% -- the lowest level since 1983 and hardly an inducement for companies to build new factories. 

 Layoff-spooked consumers also may be unwilling to spend tax rebates enacted to encourage shopping. A recent University of Michigan survey concluded that just over one in five households have spent the rebate checks mailed out this summer, with the rest tucking the money into savings or using it to pay debt. 

 At the extreme, the supply overhang from a collapsing bubble can touch off a dangerous cycle of deflation, or falling prices. In a deflationary environment, consumers curb spending, waiting for goods to become still cheaper in the future. Borrowers get crushed by debt burdens as their loans become more expensive in relative terms. Companies, forced to keep cutting prices, cut back on workers and purchases of supplies, spreading pain throughout the economy. 

 In Japan, deflation got under way in earnest in 1998 after the collapse of a major bank and securities company. In both 1998 and 1999 wholesale prices fell 1.5%, and after a flat year in 2000, they are falling again in 2001. The U.S. isn't there yet. But commodity prices have fallen sharply since 1998, while U.S. consumer prices, by some measures, appear to be slipping. The Commerce Department reported last week that its favored measure of inflation -- the price index for gross domestic purchases, or prices paid by U.S. residents -- fell by 0.3% in the third quarter, a sharp reversal from the 1.3% increase in the second quarter and the first quarterly decline in nearly 40 years. (Analysts say the number was artificially depressed by one-time factors relating to Sept. 11 -- insurance benefit payouts that, for measurement purposes, lower insurance prices.) 

 In a deflationary world, the central bank's powers to respond are diminished because monetary policy works most effectively if interest rates can fall below the rate of inflation. But rates can't do that if inflation falls below zero. 
   COamair : AMR Corp | amexpr : American Express Co | deltaa : Delta Air Lines Inc | fednat : Fannie Mae | freddy : Freddie Mac | intnth : Enron Creditors Recovery Corp. | prvfnc : Washington Mutual Card Services   INi1 : Energy | i16 : Electricity/Gas Utilities | i162 : Gas Utilities | i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i3303 : Networking | i501 : Building Construction | i5010022 : Residential Building Construction | i75 : Airlines | i7902 : Telecommunications | i814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | i85 : Real Estate Transactions | ibnk : Banking/Credit | icomp : Computing | icre : Construction/Real Estate   NSc13 : Regulation/Government Policy | c42 : Labor/Personnel Issues | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | e21 : Government Finance | e212 : Government Borrowing | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gjob : Labor Issues | m14 : Commodity Markets | m143 : Energy Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | npag : Page-One Story   REasiaz : Asia | easiaz : Eastern Asia | jap : Japan | namz : North America | usa : United States | use : Northeast U.S. | uss : Southern U.S.   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument j000000020011107dxb700036  



 SE Economy    HD Federal Reserve  Cuts Rates Half Point --- Tenth Reduction This Year Results in 40-Year Low; Further Easings Loom    BY By Greg Ip    CRStaff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal   WC920 words   PD7 November 2001   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGA2   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 2001, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP WASHINGTON -- The Federal Reserve cut interest rates by half a percentage point to their lowest level since 1961, and citing the deteriorating overseas economy, suggested more cuts could be in store. 

 The Fed cut its benchmark federal funds rate target to 2% from 2.5%, its 10th rate cut this year and the third half-point cut since the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. 
   TD Investors had been split on whether the Fed would cut by a quarter or a half percentage point. The half-point cut suggested the central bank is deeply concerned that the economy, after a minor postattack bounce, has resumed declining and is probably in its first recession since 1990-91. 

 The move brings cumulative cuts this year to 4.5 percentage points, or by more than two-thirds, the steepest proportional cut since the mid-1970s. 

 "Heightened uncertainty and concerns about a deterioration in business conditions both here and abroad are damping economic activity," the Fed said in a statement. The Fed also cut its more symbolic discount rate to 1.5% from 2%. Commercial banks responded by cutting their prime lending rate, used for setting business and consumer loans, to 5% from 5.5%. 

 Economic reports in recent weeks have been almost uniformly dismal, suggesting the economy could be contracting at a rapid clip. The unemployment rate shot up to a five-year high of 5.4% in October from 4.9% in September, manufacturing activity is falling at its fastest pace since the depths of the 1990-91 recession, and an unrelenting drumbeat of layoff announcements suggest unemployment could shoot higher. 

 The only major bullish indicators are the snapback in stock prices from their postattacks lows. Yesterday, the Dow Jones Industrial Average raced higher on the interest-rate cut, rising 159.09 points to 9591.12, its highest close since the attacks. 

 Some policy makers may have settled on a half- instead of a quarter-point cut only in the past few days. Just one of the Fed's 12 regional Reserve Banks, the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, had voted for a half-point cut before yesterday's announcement. The reason for the absence of the other banks wasn't given. But many probably voted for a smaller move because their boards met before seeing last week's dismal news on consumer confidence, manufacturing and jobs -- not out of disagreement with Chairman Alan Greenspan over the pace of easing. Indeed the Richmond Fed is considered hawkish on inflation and thus likely to want less rather than more monetary ease. 

 Earlier this year, some Fed officials worried that cutting rates so far so fast would leave the central bank with less room to cut should the economy weaken further. Those concerns have taken a back seat to a desire to stoke the economy as soon as possible. Furthermore, the tame inflation of the last months suggests rates need to go lower than previously was the case to achieve the same level of stimulus. 

 Many economists believe that monetary policy is neutral when so-called real interest rates, adjusted for inflation, are about 2%. But in times of recession that should be zero or negative. Based on the 2.6% increase in the consumer price index in the last year, the real federal funds rate is negative 0.6%. But consumers expect inflation to drop to 1% in the coming year, based on surveys by the University of Michigan, which suggests the real interest rate is still, in effect, a positive 1%. 

 The same surveys find consumers expect their incomes to grow by only 1.7%, the lowest expectation in 25 years. Low income growth makes it harder for consumers to service debt unless interest rates drop sharply. 

 "The Fed is chasing the neutral rate down and inflation expectations are lower than they thought," said Peter Hooper, chief U.S. economist at Deutsche Bank. Indeed, though trading in futures contracts based on the federal funds rate suggests it will bottom out at 1.75% next February, many economists expect it go to 1.5%. The federal funds rate is the interest rate charged on overnight loans between banks. 

 Paddy Jilek, director of U.S. economics at Credit Suisse First Boston, predicts the funds rate will drop to 1% by early next year because historically, "you haven't seen a situation when the funds rate stopped falling before the unemployment rate stopped rising." 

 Long-term bond and mortgage rates, which are more important to consumers and businesses than the federal funds rate, are likely to follow, said Paul McCulley, a fixed-income fund manager for Pacific Investment Management Co. "If the market believes the Fed will [keep rates] low for an extended period of time, it's more willing to price in that assumption. I think the likelihood of any take-back of any of this easing in 2002 is essentially zilch, for the simple reason the economy is going to be exceedingly weak." He predicts the 10-year Treasury yield, which is key to mortgage rates, will decline to 4% from 4.26% yesterday. 

 But Mickey Levy, Bank of America's chief economist, said, "As the economy rebounds . . . you'd expect a rise in rates to reflect improving performance." The Fed is willing to be aggressive now because it believes it can quickly reverse course, he said. 
   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | i81501 : Credit Types/Services | i8150103 : Mortgages/Real Estate Credit | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSc13 : Regulation/Government Policy | c31 : Marketing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument j000000020011107dxb700028  



 CLMTuesday's Markets   HD U.S. Stocks Hit Postattack Highs on Rate Cut --- A 150.09-Point Rally Greets the Fed's Move; Nasdaq Climbs 2.31%    BY By Peter A. McKay    CRStaff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal   WC869 words   PD7 November 2001   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGC1   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 2001, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP The Federal Reserve's latest interest-rate cut lifted U.S. stocks to new post-Sept. 11 highs, despite concerns that the Fed's unprecedented streak of rate reductions won't continue to prop up stocks unless the economy does its part. 

 The Dow Jones Industrial Average jumped 1.59% or 150.09 points, to 9591.12, with nearly all the jump coming after the Fed's 2:15 p.m. EST announcement that it had cut its benchmark federal-funds rate by half a percentage point -- the 10th cut this year -- to the lowest point in four decades. The Nasdaq Composite Index closed at 1835.08, up 2.31%, or 41.43 points. 
   TD In the wake of terrorist attacks, the Dow industrials had sunk as low as 8235.81, and the Nasdaq to 1423.19. 

 But with the federal-funds rate target now at 2% and below the pace of inflation -- and nudging ever closer to the point when the Fed simply won't be able to slash more -- analysts said the market could cool, as investors will look for hard evidence that the cuts are working. 

 "Near term, the market is pretty well stretched, so a pullback would almost be desirous so we can bottom out, then go back on a run," said Larry Rice, chief investment officer for brokerage firm Josephthal & Co. 

 Of course, many experts were making the same kind of wait-and-see comments before Sept. 11, when the economy alreadywas sagging despite falling rates. The terrorist attacks have merely renewed that skittishness -- a fact the Fed has responded to with three cuts since Wall Street's postattack reopening Sept. 17. 

 While those reductions have widely been credited with aiding the market's quick recovery from the postattack plunge, the broader economy hasn't responded, according to a wave of gloomy data released since Sept. 11. The most recent example: a Labor Department report Friday showing that unemployment surged to 5.4% for October, posting its biggest one-month jump in 20 years. 

 Analysts say it is a reversal of those trends, even more than additional Fed action, that is needed to turn the market around. Wall Street today will be closely watching third-quarter productivity numbers, which economists expect to show a 2.1% increase from the previous year, according to a Dow Jones/CNBC survey. 

 Going into yesterday's trading, there was an unusual lack of consensus among investors over how much the Fed would cut rates. The major indexes moved little in the morning, flitting back and forth between negative and positive territory with only double-digit point changes. 

 Even after 2:15, the rise was muted until the last half-hour or so of trading, unlike in the aftermath of some prior rate cuts, in which stocks immediately surged. 

 "It was almost a no-win kind of situation going in, because people's expectations were so divided" over how big the rate cut would be, said Jim Russell, director of equity research at Fifth Third Bank. "We expect the Fed will take its foot off the accelerator from this point forward." 

 Wayne Angell, the senior economist for Bear Stearns who is also a former Fed governor, said the central bank will likely make an additional two quarter-point cuts, bringing its benchmark rate to 1.5%. 

 In its statement explaining yesterday's cut, the Fed expressed confidence in the economy's long-term potential, although the central bank didn't project when tangible signs of an upturn might be visible. 

 In the stock market, technology shares led the way for a second consecutive session, as the Hewlett family said it will use its 5% stake in Hewlett-Packard Co. to vote against the company's planned merger with Compaq Computer Corp. H-P, a Dow industrials component, jumped 17%, or $2.92, to $19.81 as of 4 p.m in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. Compaq fell 5.5%, or 49 cents, to $8.50 on the Big Board. 

 The H-P jump accounted for about 20 points of the industrial average's rally, making it the index's second-biggest gainer. International Business Machines Corp. boosted the Dow industrials by more than 29 points, accounting for 19% of the index's rise for the day. Its shares rose 3.8%, or $4.22, to $114.19 each. 

 In major U.S. market action: 

 Stocks rose. On the Big Board, where 1.3 billion shares traded, 2,064 stocks rose, and 1,053 fell. 

 Bonds were mixed. The 10-year Treasury note rose 7/32, or $2.19 for a $1,000 bond, pushing the yield to 4.262%. The 30-year bond was unchanged, yielding 4.854%. 

 The dollar was mixed. Late in New York, it traded at 89.46 cents to the euro, compared with 89.80 cents late Monday. The dollar fell against the Japanese currency to 121.27 yen to the dollar from 121.76 yen. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m11 : Equity Markets | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nsum : News Digest   REasiaz : Asia | easiaz : Eastern Asia | jap : Japan | namz : North America | usa : United States   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument j000000020011107dxb700015  



 CLMCredit Markets   HD Shorter-Term Treasurys Prices Rise After Fed's Rate Reduction    BY By John Parry    CRDow Jones Newswires   WC1,014 words   PD7 November 2001   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGC15   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 2001, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP NEW YORK -- Short- and medium-maturity Treasurys ended higher after the Federal Reserve cut interest rates by a half percentage point, more than many people had expected. 

 Anticipation of a Fed easing also boosted a Treasury auction of five-year notes held prior to the Fed's policy announcement at midafternoon. 
   TD But the 30-year Treasury bond remained unchanged. That issue is less sensitive to Fed policy changes than shorter ones, and its price had surged in recent days after the Treasury said it would halt sales of the maturity. 

 At 4 p.m. EST, the benchmark 10-year Treasury note was up 7/32 point, or 2.19 cents per $1,000 face value, at 105 27/32. Its yield fell to 4.262% from 4.289% late Monday, as yields move inversely to prices. 

 The 30-year Treasury bond's price was unchanged at 108 3/32, yielding 4.854%. 

 Among shorter maturities, the two-year note rose 4/32 point to 100 22/32 to yield 2.376%. 

 Fed policy makers trimmed the target for the federal-funds rate, or overnight bank-lending rate, by a half percentage point to 2%. So far this year the Fed has reduced that benchmark rate by 4 1/2 percentage points to its lowest level since September 1961. Policy makers also cut the largely symbolic discount rate, or what the Fed charges member banks for loans, by a half percentage point to 1.5%. 

 In a statement, the Fed said, "Heightened uncertainty and concerns about a deterioration in business conditions both here and abroad are damping economic activity." The statement added that currently, "risks are weighted mainly toward conditions that may generate economic weakness." 

 The Fed is "concerned about the world economy's sharp slowdown," said Michael Cheah, a portfolio manager at SunAmerica Asset Management in New York. 

 But the rate cut and statement by the Fed left the door "clearly open" for further interest-rate cuts, said Gemma Wright, director of market strategy at Barclays Capital in New York. "If economic numbers continue to worsen in the month of November, the market will price in [expectations of] a 1.5% funds rate" by later this year, she added. 

 The Fed's policy-setting committee is slated to meet again on Dec. 11. 

 Employment data, retail sales and statistics that track the industrial sector, such as the National Association of Purchasing Management's monthly survey, likely will be key to Treasurys market expectations about any further Fed policy changes, analysts noted. 

 Meanwhile, the Treasury found strong interest for $16 billion of five-year notes. It awarded the notes at a high rate of 3.617%, below the 3.63% level in when-issued trading shortly before the auction. 

 The bid-to-cover ratio, an indication of demand comparing bids received with those awarded, was 2.18. That was well above the 2.00 average of the past 12 auctions of the five-year maturity, according to Ried, Thunberg & Co., which tracks Treasury auctions. 


                    FOUR-WEEK BILLS
  All bids are awarded at a single price at the market-clearing yield.
Rates are determined by the difference between that price and the face
value.
Applications ......................... $22,694,587,000
Accepted bids ........................ $16,000,087,000
Bids at market-clearing yld accepted .           23.70%
Accepted noncompetitively ............      $7,587,000
Accepted frgn noncomp ................              $0
Auction price (Rate) .................   99.834 (2.168%)
Coupon equivalent ....................           2.168%
Cusip number .........................       912795GU9
  The bills are dated Nov. 8 and mature Dec. 6, 2001.
                    FIVE-YEAR NOTES
  All bids are awarded at a single price at the market-clearing yield.
Rates are determined by the difference between that price and the face
value.
Applications ......................... $34,871,580,000
Accepted bids ........................ $16,000,000,000
Bids at market-clearing yld accepted .           93.14%
Accepted noncompetitively ............    $198,580,000
Accepted frgn noncomp ................              $0
Auction price (Rate) .................   99.469 (3.617%)
Interest rate ........................           3 1/2%
Cusip number .........................       9128277F3
  The notes are dated Nov. 15 and mature Nov. 15, 2006.



Corporate Bonds



Duke Energy Field Services sold $300 million of five-year notes as
the investment-grade corporate bond market saw about $1.5 billion of new
issues.



Duke Energy's offering was priced to yield 5.78%, or 2.20 percentage
points above Treasurys. Banc of America Securities was bookrunner for
the issue, rated Baa2 by Moody's Investors Service and triple-B by
Standard & Poor's.



Also, Energy East sold $250 million of five-year securities priced to
yield 5.883%, or 2.30 percentage points above Treasurys. Morgan Stanley
and UBS Warburg were co-leads on the deal, rated Baa1 by Moody's and
triple-B-plus by S&P.



FirstEnergy, Akron, Ohio, was preparing to sell $4 billion via
co-leads Barclay's Capital, Morgan Stanley and Salomon Smith Barney,
with ratings of Baa2 from Moody's and triple-B-minus from S&P.



Preliminary indications were that a five-year maturity would yield
2.05 to 2.20 percentage points above Treasurys; a 10-year part would
yield 2.25 to 2.35 percentage points above Treasurys; and a 30-year part
would yield 2.45 to 2.60 percentage points above Treasurys.



Municipal Bonds



New York's Triborough Bridge and Tunnel Authority sold $1.1 billion
of general purpose revenue bonds that were quickly placed with
investors. Bear Stearns was bookrunning manager for the issue, part of
an estimated $10 billion in borrowing by New York City and state-related
issuers this quarter.



S&P last week assigned a double-A-minus rating to the new issue,
while Moody's rated it double-A-3 and Fitch double-A.



Daniel Keating, a senior managing director at Bear Stearns, said
concerns about a possible drop in bridge traffic after the September
terrorist attacks didn't hurt demand for the bonds, which are backed by
traffic revenue.



---



Richard A. Bravo, Kellie Geressy and John Dooley contributed to this
article.

   COfrsngy : FirstEnergy Corp | nge : Iberdrola USA   INi1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i16 : Electricity/Gas Utilities | i16101 : Electric Power Generation   NSccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m14 : Commodity Markets | m143 : Energy Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States | usc : Midwest U.S. | use : Northeast U.S. | usny : New York | usw : Western U.S.   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument j000000020011107dxb70000e  



 CLMForeign Exchange   HD Dollar Reacts Little to Fed's Rate Cut, But Move Is Well Received by Traders    BY By John Hardy    CRDow Jones Newswires   WC673 words   PD7 November 2001   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGC5   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 2001, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP NEW YORK -- The dollar showed little reaction to the announcement of a half-point cut in key U.S. interest rates by the Federal Reserve, even though the reduction was well received by currency-market participants. 

 "The Fed came in with 50 [hundredths of a percentage point] and they showed no signs of slowing the cuts -- maybe another 25 or even 50," said Tim Mazanec, senior foreign-exchange analyst at Investors Bank & Trust in Boston. 
   TD As a result of the Fed move, Mr. Mazanec is optimistic over the outlook for the dollar. 

 "At this point, it's a stronger dollar and no change in trend," he said. 

 The latest cut brought short-term rates to a 40-year low, with the central bank also signaling that it may cut rates again in the near future. 

 Greg Salvaggio vice president of trading at Tempus Consulting in Washington, D.C., expects the cut to be good for the dollar. He now believes that the foreign-exchange market will shift its focus to the response of the European Central Bank at its rate-setting meeting tomorrow. 

 "It looks like [traders] will be buying dollars and the fate of the euro now depends on the ECB" tomorrow," he said. 

 In late New York trading, the euro was at 89.46 U.S. cents, down from 89.78 cents in London and below 89.80 cents late Monday in New York. The dollar was at 121.27 yen, off from 121.60 yen in London and from 121.76 yen late Monday, and was also at 1.6461 Swiss francs, up from 1.6390 francs. Sterling was at $1.4572, down from $1.4583. 

 Both before and after the Fed decision, currency trading was muted as traders had positioned themselves for a rate reduction. 

 Overnight, the dominant market activity was some yen short-covering during European trading that briefly pushed the dollar below 121 yen and squeezed the euro back to lows at 108.37 yen. 

 Later, the dollar against the yen steadied just above its lows for the day as traders retreated to the sidelines. 

 Meanwhile, the euro made few significant moves, being supported by bids around 89.60 cents and capped by offers just above 90.00 cents, a dealer commented. 

 "Nobody's prepared to put on any major bets," said Alex Beuzelin, a market analyst at Ruesch International in Washington. 

 Overnight, there was little impact on the market from a string of rather negative euro-zone economic data and indicators. 

 German unemployment was a little higher than economists' forecasts, German services-purchasing managers' indexes hit a four-year low, euro-zone business and consumer confidence fell, euro-zone jobless figures remained unchanged. 

 On a more positive note, French consumer confidence surprised on the upside, while producer prices were in line with expectations. 

 Traders will now watch the actions of the ECB tomorrow, with even greater interest -- especially after encouraging indications of a possible euro-zone rate cut in comments made earlier this week. 

 Monday, ECB President Wim Duisenberg told reporters he expected euro-zone inflation to fall "well below" the ECB's 2% price-stability measure early next year and to remain there -- remarks that could point to a possible cut. 

 "I am sure that the governing council will take all the factors leading to this development well into account," he added. 

 Also adding to the pressure on the ECB, the International Monetary Fund said that the euro "remains weak" against the dollar in real terms, but that the currency's recent stability affords the ECB the opportunity to ease monetary policy further. 

 However despite these positive indications, many analysts remain skeptical over the ECB's interest-rate strategy. 

 "We're expecting to be disappointed by the ECB," said Mr. Mazanec, who believes the euro zone needs a 0.50 percentage-point rate cut but doesn't expect to see it. 
   CObinvbk : Investors Bank   INi814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | e52 : Euro Zone/Currency | ecat : Economic News | eec : European Union | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations   REasiaz : Asia | easiaz : Eastern Asia | eurz : Europe | fra : France | gfr : Germany | jap : Japan | medz : Mediterranean | namz : North America | switz : Switzerland | uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | weurz : Western Europe   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument j000000020011107dxb700006  



 HD ECB poised for rate cut, question is how much.    BY By Tomasz Janowski    WC882 words   PD7 November 2001   ET17:20   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 Reuters Limited
   LP FRANKFURT, Nov 7 (Reuters) - Since European Central Bank President Wim Duisenberg made plain earlier this week that a monetary easing is on the cards, the question is no longer "if" but "by how much" will interest rates sink on Thursday. 

 Financial markets and politicians, facing a rising tide of gloomy economic news, have pleaded for action to shore up euro zone confidence and help avert global recession, but unlike the U.S. Federal Reserve's aggressive cuts, the ECB has held tight. 
   TD The Fed continued its effort to staunch the slowdown on Tuesday, lopping another half point off its key interest rate to bring it to just two percent. The 10 Fed rate cuts this year stand in sharp contrast to the ECB's moves, numbering just three. 

 Now, encouraged by Duisenberg's upbeat comments on inflation prospects and a strong hint about the rate outlook, market players are confident the waiting will be soon over. 

 "The appropriate question now is the size of the cut rather than if they will do it at all," said Nigel Anderson of RBS Financial Markets. "It's almost inconceivable that they won't move this week." 

 Duisenberg took the unusual step after his meeting with euro zone finance ministers in Brussels of making a public statement to waiting reporters. He predicted that euro zone inflation would fall "well below" its two percent threshold early next year and stay at that level. 

 "I am sure that the (ECB) governing council will take all the factors leading to this phenomenon well into account," he said. 

 The ECB will announce its rate decision at 1245 GMT on Thursday followed by a news conference with Duisenberg. 

 CLEAR EXPECTATIONS 

 Last week 49 out of 51 economists polled by Reuters predicted an ECB easing, most likely by a quarter point. 

 A repoll of 22 of these 51 economists on Wednesday put the odds of a cut on Thursday at 80 percent, compared with 70 percent in last week's poll. 

 And a growing minority of economists also think the ECB will cut by half a percentage point. 

 Comments from ECB council member Ernst Welteke, temporarily unsettled markets as the Bundesbank head appeared to voice concern last weekend that aggressive rate cuts could create too much liquidity. 

 But Duisenberg's plain talk seemed to dispel any doubts and money market dealers pulled out all the stops in their bets on rate cut this week, heavily underbidding the regular ECB liquidity tender, while bond yields hit more than two-year lows. 

 "After these comments the market is a bit more confident it will be half a percent from the ECB," a Dutch bond trader said. 

 Many analysts said it would be a right response to the mounting gloom as the shockwaves from the September 11 attacks on U.S. cities may have already tipped the world's biggest economy into recession and loom over near-stagnant Europe. 

 As markets expect the bank to shave another half-point off its current 3.75 percent benchmark by the end of the year anyway, the ECB might decide to do it in one go to cool down rate speculation, some analysts said. 

 "Given ECB's caution 25 basis points seem more likely, but with such a move they'll be confronted with further rate cut calls. With 50 basis points they could end the discussion," said Julian von Landesberger, an economist at HypoVereinsbank. 

 He said the size would be a close call but most economists still expect the bank to follow a more cautious, gradual route. 

 RISING TIDE OF GLOOM 

 The latest forecasts and economic data continued to strengthen the case for an ECB rate cut. 

 The International Monetary Fund this week said that the euro zone economy would grow by just 1.7 percent this year and that growth would be even slower, at 1.6 percent, in 2002. It added it expected to cut its forecast further in the coming months. 

 The euro zone business climate index suffered its steepest ever fall to hit five-year lows in October as firms' confidence plunged in the wake of attacks on U.S. cities, the European Commission reported on Wednesday. 

 German manufacturing orders in September fell by 4.1 percent month-on-month and German October jobless data showed unemployment in Europe's biggest economy on its way up towards the key psychological four million level. 

 At the same time provisional euro zone figures released on Monday confirmed inflation was cooling with October 2.4 percent rate at its lowest since last January. 

 Opinion are divided to what extent political pressure for easing has kept the ECB from easing earlier, but in any case that obstacle has also been removed. 

 Euro zone finance ministers have agreed to refrain from sending hints or overt calls for rate cuts to the ECB, a source told Reuters as the ministers met in Brussels this week. 

 The ECB cut interest rates so far three times this year by a total of 100 basis points, including two cuts shortly before and after the September 11 attacks, but it has kept its powder dry since the half-point cut on September 17. 

 For the latest poll on the ECB, please. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | ecbnk : European Central Bank | eec : European Union | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations   REeurz : Europe | gfr : Germany | namz : North America | usa : United States | weurz : Western Europe   ANDocument lba0000020011107dxb700u9f  



 HD Dollar Down Slightly Against Euro    WC353 words   PD6 November 2001   SNAP Online   SCASP   LAEnglish   CY Copyright 2001 The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved. 
   LP NEW YORK (AP) - The dollar was lower against the euro and the yen Tuesday, little-changed after the Federal Reserve announced its 10th interest rate cut this year. 

 The Fed cut a key interest rate by a half-point Tuesday, taking the federal funds rate to 2 percent, its lowest since September 1961. 
   TD The dollar-level's muted response to the news reflected the market's anticipation, analysts said. A reduction between a quarter- and a half-percentage point had been expected. 

 "Trading was choppy and range-bound before and after the announcement," said Mark Thome, vice president of treasury at Fortis (USA) Financial Markets. "The market still doesn't know what it wants to do." 

 The Fed's 10 rate cuts so far this year - three since the Sept. 11 attacks - have been seen as part of an aggressive response to pressure on the U.S. economy. 

 In late New York trading, the euro was quoted at 89.73 cents, up from 89.71 cents late Monday. Meanwhile, the dollar was quoted at 121.06 Japanese yen, down from 121.80 yen. 

 Traders are now looking forward to interest rate decisions Thursday from the European Central Bank and the Bank of England. 

 "The ECB's got just as many people who think it will be cutting by a half-percent as people who think it won't cut at all," Thome said. "It's a much more difficult call as to what they will do over in Europe on Thursday." 

 The dollar also was quoted at 1.6391 Swiss francs, down from 1.6411, and 1.5916 Canadian dollars, down from 1.5929. The British pound rose to $1.4605 from $1.4589. 

 Currencies of the 12 countries participating in the euro are no longer traded separately and are tied to the euro by a fixed rate. Based on Tuesday's euro rate, the dollar was worth 2.1793 German marks, down from 2.1797; 7.3091 French francs, down from 7.3103; and 2,157.52 Italian lire, down from 2,157.89. 
   RFAP-Dollar; D7FK627O0   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | e52 : Euro Zone/Currency | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | m14 : Commodity Markets | m142 : Metals Markets | m1421 : Gold Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REeurz : Europe | namz : North America | uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | use : Northeast U.S. | usny : New York | weurz : Western Europe   IPC1312   IPDFinancial/Business | Dollar/Gold   ANDocument asp0000020011106dxb600itt  



 HD Fed pushes key  interest rate  to lowest level in 40 years    BY By MARTIN CRUTSINGER    CRAP Economics Writer   WC868 words   PD6 November 2001   ET07:22   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY Copyright 2001.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved. 
   LP WASHINGTON (AP) - The Federal Reserve dropped a key interest rate to its lowest level in 40 years as it battled to prevent the "heightened uncertainty" following the terrorist attacks from sending the country into a deep recession. 

 The Fed on Tuesday slashed its federal funds rate, the key benchmark for overnight loans, by a half-point to 2 percent and signaled that it was prepared to continue cutting if conditions deteriorate further. 
   TD "The Fed is telling us they are really worried and they will likely move again at their December meeting," said David Seiders, chief economist at the National Association of Home Builders. 

 Wall Street rallied on the news, given that investors had been split over whether the Fed would move by a half-point or a quarter-point. The Dow Jones industrial average ended the day up 150.09 points at 9,591.12, it best close since the attacks and within 14 points of its Sept. 10 level. Other indexes posted gains as well, with the technology-heavy Nasdaq up 41.43 to 1,835.08. 

 The latest rate cut, the 10th this year, was taken against a backdrop of increasingly gloomy statistics indicating that the nation's longest economic expansion - more than a decade of uninterrupted growth - has ended. 

 The government reported last week that the gross domestic product declined at an annual rate of 0.4 percent in the July-September quarter. Many analysts believe the pace of the downturn will accelerate to a drop of 2 percent or more in the current quarter. A recession is traditionally defined as two consecutive quarters of falling GDP. 

 Job cuts in October alone totaled 415,000, the biggest one-month total in 21 years. 

 The concern is that the hundreds of thousands of job layoffs that have occurred since the Sept. 11 attacks will trigger a sharp reduction in consumer spending as more people become fearful of losing their own jobs, deepening and prolonging the recession. 

 The Fed's action, which pushed the funds rate down to its lowest point since September 1961, was quickly matched by commercial banks that reduced their prime lending rate by a half-point. The benchmark for millions of consumer and business loans was cut to 5 percent, its lowest level since June 1972. 

 "Heightened uncertainty and concerns about a deterioration in business conditions both here and abroad are damping economic activity," the Fed said in a four-paragraph statement. 

 The Fed repeated the phrase it employs when it wants to hold out the possibility of further rate cuts, saying that in the near future "the risks are weighted mainly toward conditions that may generate economic weakness." 

 Many economists said the Fed could very well cut rates by another half-point at its last meeting of the year, on Dec. 11. That would push the funds rate down to 1.5 percent, a level last seen in July 1961, when John F. Kennedy was president. 

 Some analysts are worried that plunging consumer confidence and the fears generated by the terrorist attacks and anthrax shipments in the mail will overwhelm the Fed's rate cuts. 

 "The Fed is trying to arrest the slide in the economy and in consumer confidence, but it may be running out of ammunition," said Sung Won Sohn, chief economist at Wells Fargo in Minneapolis. 

 Jerry Jasinowski, president of the National Association of Manufacturers, said that on top of all the other problems, his member companies are beginning to report increased trouble getting bank loans. He said that, in the four weeks following the Sept. 11 attacks, loans to businesses declined at an annual rate of 20 percent. 

 "Under normal circumstances, the decision of banks to tighten credit in response to unprecedented losses would be understandable. But we are at war and a strong economy is essential to victory," Jasinowski said, calling on government regulators to convince banks to restore "sensible lending standards." 

 Many economists argued that the Fed's aggressive moves, along with the massive tax cut President Bush pushed through Congress last spring and an additional $100 billion in economic stimulus now being debated in Congress, should be enough to assure an end to the recession next year. 

 However, while many analysts had expected the rebound to occur in the first three months of next year, the recent string of bad statistics has caused some analysts to predict the recession will last into spring, with the unemployment rate, which shot up to 5.4 percent in October, topping 6 percent before the recovery begins. 

 Analysts believe the recession will not be worse than the 1990-91 downturn, which lasted nine months, although they cautioned that it could feel worse to many people given that unemployment had dropped to a 30-year low of 3.9 percent last year. 

 "While the data are unmistakably dismal, this is so far simply a normal recession," said Bill Cheney, chief economist at John Hancock in Boston. "There is every reason to think that vigorous monetary and fiscal stimulus will produce a vigorous recovery." 

 --- 

 On the Net: 

Federal Reserve: http://www.federalreserve.gov
   RFRush   NSc42 : Labor/Personnel Issues | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | credun : Lay-offs/Redundancies | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1101 : Economic Growth | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gcrim : Crime/Courts | gterr : Acts of Terror | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States | usdc : Washington DC | uss : Southern U.S. | usw : Western U.S. | uswa : Washington   IPCslda0794 | sel----- | tagdsa   IPDWashington | AP National News | BC-Fed-Interest Rates | a07ab70d6839255e495bed6071bc4602   ANDocument aprs000020011106dxb600acf  



 HD Fed rate cut sparks Wall Street rally    WC563 words   PD6 November 2001   SNAgence France-Presse   SCAFPR   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright 2001) 
   LP NEW YORK, Nov 6 (AFP) - Stocks rallied Tuesday on the heels of the half-point rate cut by the Federal Reserve and the central bank's statement that leaves the door open to further easing to help revive the US economy. 

 After languishing for much of the day, the Dow Jones industrial average rallied late in the day with a gain of 150.09 points (1.59 percent) to close at 9,591.12. 
   TD The Nasdaq composite meanwhile rose 41.43 points (2.31 percent) to 1,835.08 and the Standard and Poor's 500 added 16.02 points (1.45 percent) to 1,118.86. 

 Dealers said that after some hesitation Wall Street rallied strongly after the Fed action as it perceived the aggressive stance as positive for the economic health of the country. 

 Most analysts expected a 50 basis point cut today, but there remained a sizable minority thinking that Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan would ease by only 25 basis points. So far this year, the Fed has cut the federal funds rate 10 times to a 40-year low of two percent. 

 Jay Suskind, a market strategist with Ryan Beck and Co., said that although the rate cut had been widely anticipated by investors, the news was nevertheless good for the market, which is hoping that cheaper borrowing costs will improve the fortunes of companies in the tech sector. 

 "Overall the market has responded pretty well," he said. "Investors believe that the string of rate cuts will eventually kick in and boost the economy." 

 Morgan Stanley senior trader Michael Lyons was also comforted by the tone of the accompanying statement, which indicates that Greenspan is ready to cut rates further. 

 Art Hogan at Jefferies and Co said the decision was "in the range of credible expectations" and the market had already priced in the move somewhat. 

 However, Hogan remained more cautious about the implications of the  decision on the broader economy. "The good news is, yeah, we get an interest rate cut, but the bad news is that we need it," he said. 

 Financials were the biggest gainers from the decision: Bank of New York rose 1.41 to 36.65 and JP Morgan Chase added 1.18 to 37.54. 

 Hewlett-Packard, up 2.92 at 19.81, and Compaq, down 49 at 8.50, traded  heavily after the Hewlett family and a related fund, which combined own about five percent of HP stock, said they were opposed to the proposed merger of the two companies. 

 Cisco rose 57 cents to 18.47, lifting the technology with a strong earnings report Monday. 

 Microsoft gained 1.51 to 64.78 after nine of the 18 states joined the settlement in the antitrust suit against the software giant. 

 The oil sector closed mixed after OPEC said a price war may ensue following the decision of non-OPEC countries not to go ahead with production cuts planned by the organization. ExxonMobil closed up eight cents at 38.47 and ChevronTexaco fell 31 cents to 86.80. 

 On the bond market, the yield on the 10-year bond eased to 4.259 percent from 4.286 percent Monday and on the 30-year bond rose to 4.852 percent against 4.850 percent. Bond yields and prices move in opposite directions. 

 bur-rl/mac 
   CObnyc : The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   NSccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPDFinancial | SEQN: 0826   ANDocument afpr000020011107dxb6000rx  



 CLMMonday's Markets   HD U.S. Stocks Rise On Anticipation Of Fed's Move    BY By Peter A. McKay    CRStaff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal   WC903 words   PD6 November 2001   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGC1   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 2001, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP Stocks rallied as investors placed last-minute bets ahead of today's interest-rate announcement by the Federal Reserve. 

 Buoyed by expectations of strong earnings from Cisco Inc., technology stocks led the way. The Nasdaq Composite rose 2.74%, or 47.92 points, to 1793.65, its highest close since Aug. 31. 
   TD Two of the three major U.S. stock indexes have once again returned to levels at which they stood before the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks caused broad stock-market declines. Nasdaq, which stood at 1695.38 on Sept. 10, has been solidly above its preattack closing level for the past month. Yesterday, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, which had wiped out its postattack losses when Nasdaq did on Oct. 11, but then dropped below it recently, rose 1.44%, or 15.64 points, to 1102.84 -- back above the 1092.54 at which it stood before the attack. 

 The Dow Jones Industrial Average is very close to recovering its lost ground, too, but hasn't done so yet. Yesterday it finished at 9441.03, up 1.26%, or 117.49 points; the industrials now stand 164.48 points below the closing level on Sept. 10. 

 Many strategists expect a half-point interest-rate cut by the Fed's policy making committee today, although some traders continued yesterday to predict a quarter-point cut. The central bank will make its announcement at 2:15 p.m. EST. 

 The somewhat tepid consensus among Wall Street investors about the size of the rate cut is unusual heading into today's Fed meeting and partly reflects the uncertainty lingering in the market following Sept. 11, some traders said. Indeed, some investors suggest that stocks are likely to continue on an uneven ride for some time amid uncertainty about whether the economy has bottomed out. 

 "You've had all this terrible economic news the last week, but the market is still up," said John Bartlett, senior portfolio manager at Commerce Funds in St. Louis. "It's like people want to be bullish, but we're still going to be in this pattern of going forward very slowly, two steps forward at a time, then one back." 

 Mr. Bartlett expects a half-point cut even though he said the economy may bottom out as early as next month, then begin to rebound. 

 Roughly 60% of investors share that view, compared with 40% expecting a smaller cut, reckons James A. Bianco, president of Bianco Research, which calculates rate expectations based on the market for federal-fund futures. He said neither a quarter-point nor a half-point cut firmly has been factored into stock prices yet, leaving them vulnerable to fluctuate widely today, possibly even before the Fed announcement. 

 "It's strange, because usually there would be almost 100% consensus by now on what to expect," Mr. Bianco said. "The market may move at any point today, even in the morning, whenever there's some agreement as to what people believe will happen." 

 Once the Fed does make an announcement, a half-point cut almost certainly will result in at least a modest rally for stocks, strategists say. The results of a quarter-point cut are harder to predict. Such a modest move obviously would disappoint the many investors expecting more. 

 On the other hand, with the Fed's key interest rate already at 2.25% following 10 consecutive cuts, the smaller decrease may be attractive to policymakers today in order to leave them more leeway if the economy weakens further, Mr. Bianco said. "A half-point just doesn't leave that much to work with, if they want to keep cutting later," he said. 

 Also helping the technology sector yesterday was the performance of bellwether Cisco, which rallied on expectations its earnings would be strong. It rose 3.7%, or 64 cents, to $17.90 a share at 4 p.m. in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. In after-hours trading, Cisco shares rose an additional 5%, to $18.80. 

 After 4 p.m., Cisco announced an after-tax loss of $268 million for the quarter ended Oct. 27, compared with net income of $798 million, or 11 cents a share, a year earlier. But excluding two special items as well as acquisition-related expenses, Cisco said it would have reported net income of $332 million, or four cents a share. Analysts' consensus, according to Thomson Financial/First Call, was for earnings before items of two cents a share. 

 At the Big Board, data-storage company EMC Corp. was the most active, rallying nearly 11%, or $1.41, to a two-month high of $14.50 a share. 

 In major U.S. market action: 

 Stocks rose. On the Big Board, where 1.19 billion shares traded, 2,053 stocks rose, and 1,079 fell. 

 Bonds rose. The 10-year Treasury note rose 17/32, or $5.31 for a $1,000 bond, pushing the yield to 4.289%. The 30-year bond was up 1 20/32 to yield 4.854%. 

 The dollar rose. Late in New York, it traded at 89.8 cents to the euro, compared with 90.29 cents. The dollar rose against the Japanese currency to 121.76 yen to the dollar, compared to 121.72 yen. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | eec : European Union | m11 : Equity Markets | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nsum : News Digest | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations   REasiaz : Asia | easiaz : Eastern Asia | jap : Japan | namz : North America | usa : United States   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument j000000020011106dxb60001j  



 HDWORLD STOCK MARKETS - Hopeful bourses defy the gloom.   BYBy PHILIP COGGAN.    WC287 words   PD6 November 2001   SNFinancial Times   SCFTFT   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPInterest rate optimism ahead of three key central bank decisions this week pushed stock markets higher yesterday, despite some gloomy economic news.

The US Federal Reserve is expected to begin with a cut of a quarter or half a point today with the Bank of England expected to follow suit on Thursday. Markets are also hopeful, but far from certain, of a cut from the European Central Bank.
   TDThose rate hopes enabled US investors to shrug off a plunge in the purchasing managers' survey of the services sector which fell to 40.6 in October from 50.2 in September, well below forecasts.

Investors are clearly looking through short-term weakness to the potential recovery in 2002. The Dow Jones Industrial Average quickly made a triple-digit gain and European bourses finished sharply higher with the CAC 40 in Paris gaining 2.7 per cent and the SMI in Zurich 1.6 per cent.

Elaine Garzarelli of Garzarelli Capital, who made her name forecasting the 1987 crash, said: "Our equity valuation indicators are more bullish because of the elimination of the 30 year duration. Our 14 indicator composite remains bullish at 74.4 per cent."

She also sees the record $29.5bn withdrawal from US equity mutual funds in September as bullish, since market turning points often occur when investor sentiment is depressed.

And Credit Suisse First Boston says that European equity mutual funds suffered a record net outflow of Euros 13.8bn over the month. "The demand for equity mutual funds is likely to remain weak for the rest of the year, particularly given the uncertain economic outlook," said the CSFB strategy team.

Philip Coggan. 
   INi831 : Financial Investments | iinv : Investing/Securities   NSc15 : Performance | c152 : Earnings Projections | c1521 : Analyst Comment/Recommendation | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REeurz : Europe | namz : North America | uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | weurz : Western Europe   IPCMarkets | Market News | Equities | Market Reports | United States of America | World   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument ftft000020011106dxb6000db  



 HDATTACK ON AFGHANISTAN ECONOMY &INVESTIGATION - Fed expected to cut rates by another half-point BATTLE ...   BYBy GERARD BAKER.    WC533 words   PD6 November 2001   SNFinancial Times   SCFTFT   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPATTACK ON AFGHANISTAN ECONOMY &INVESTIGATION - Fed expected to cut rates by another half-point BATTLE AGAINST RECESSION CENTRAL BANK STRUGGLES TO MINIMISE DAMAGE FROM EXTENDED PERIOD OF NEGATIVE GROWTH IN W.

The US Federal Reserve is poised to cut interest rates today for the tenth time this year, extending its most aggressive rate-cutting campaign in recent history amid yet more evidence of proliferating weakness in the world's economic locomotive.
   TDMost financial market economists expect the US central bank's policy-making open market committee to lower its key overnight interest rate target by another half a percentage point to 2 per cent and signal there is almost certainly more to come.

There seems a slight chance that the Fed will opt for a more cautious rate cut of just a quarter point, but financial markets indicated yesterday that most investors were banking firmly on a 50 basis point move.

A year ago, short-term rates stood at 6.5 per cent, but since then growth has gone into free fall, sending unemployment sharply higher, industrial production into a tailspin and consumer and business confidence into a slump.

The Fed's easing of monetary policy no longer appears to be a battle to avert recession, which, with the publication of the most recent economic data, seems to have already begun during the last few months.

Instead the central bank is struggling desperately to minimise the damage from - and limit the duration of - the first extended period of negative growth in the world's largest economy since 1991.

The weakness was underlined yesterday with the latest report from the National Association of Purchasing Management that showed a sharp fall in service-sector activity in October.

The NAPM said its non-manufacturing index, based on data from US companies, dropped to 40.6 last month from 50.2 in September. It was the lowest reading in the index's four-year history.

The report followed Labor department employment figures on Friday that showed the biggest one-month rise in unemployment in October in 20 years as the service sector succumbed to the slowdown.

The continuing slump poses special challenges for the Fed, which until this year had, under Alan Greenspan, its chairman, won high praise for a monetary policy that steered a careful path between inflation and recession over the past 10 years.

At today's meeting there is likely to be debate on whether another aggressive move will severely limit the Fed's room for manoeuvre in the next few months. Markets are already expecting rates to go as low as 1.5 per cent soon. If that does not produce recovery the impression of an impotent monetary policy may grow. Against that, most economists, including those at the Fed, are still expressing confidence that monetary policy is effective - albeit with a long lag. The rate cuts already in the pipeline, together with those still to come, should, they believe, be enough to engineer an economic recovery by the middle of next year. International Outlook, Page 16 For live update see FT.com. 
   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPCInterest Rates | Economic News | Economic Indicators | Federal Reserve USA | United States of America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument ftft000020011106dxb60005t  



 HD Federal Reserve  cuts interest rates to 2 per cent.   BYBy PERONET DESPEIGNES IN WASHINGTON.    WC506 words   PD6 November 2001   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPUS Federal Reserve officials voted on Tuesday to reduce short-term interest rates for the tenth time this year in a bid to slow the economy's deterioration, extending one of the biggest and most rapid monetary easings in post-war US economic history.

The Fed's policy-making open market committee voted to reduce the fed funds rate by a half-point, to 2 per cent from 2.5 per cent. The "real" Fed funds rate, taking into account inflation, will be virtually zero, depending on the inflation expectations used.
   TDThe Fed has sharply reduced short-term interest rates this year to avoid a recession. The cuts, however, may now only soften the blow of a renewed cycle of falling profits, production, employment and sales.

Another interest rate cut seemed inevitable due to the US economy showing signs of slipping deeper into turmoil and more signs that growth abroad is evaporating. The questions were by how much, how long cuts would continue and whether they would help.

Futures markets had already priced in a quarter-point reduction of the central bank's target for the Fed funds rate, already near a 40-year low before Tuesday's decision.

But last week, markets began to bet on a half-point rate cut after reports showing US job losses last month were the most pervasive since the 1990-91 recession and the largest in nearly two decades. Hopes for a half-point cut received another boost on Monday after a prominent gauge of the service sector affirmed the US economy's slump had spread well beyond its factories to the entire economy.

Congress and the central bank have struggled to revive growth, but questions about the likely effectiveness of both monetary and fiscal policy persist.

The Fed controls short-term interest rates but the cost of borrowing for everything from mortgages to cars and houses is determined by the yield on long-term Treasury bonds. The Fed funds rate has been slashed by 4 percentage points since January 1 and up until Tuesday's meeting, but the 10-year bond yield had fallen only 0.68 percentage points.

Meanwhile, the US dollar remains surprisingly strong, reducing chances for better export sales.

While equity prices have rallied over the past few weeks in anticipation of a recovery and additional stimulus measures, the bond market has been sending a very different signal. Yield spreads between high-quality and low-quality corporate bonds continue to widen, signalling growing expectations for defaults and corporate bankruptcies.

The futures market has now begun to accept the possibility that the Fed funds rate could touch bottom at 1.5 per cent by early next year before the Fed begins raising rates to stem inflation risks.

But the market has been betting on an eventual upswing for much of the year - constantly pushing back the date of the expected bottom as economic and corporate news have repeatedly proved worse than expected. 
   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument ftcom00020011107dxb6000h4  



 HDDollar steadies as investors await rate decision.   BYBy JENNIFER HUGHES IN LONDON.    WC287 words   PD6 November 2001   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPThe dollar was holding steady on Tuesday ahead of the Federal Reserve's interest rate decision. Markets have broadly priced in another half-point of easing but strategists warned this was the closest call on a Fed rate decision this year.

Market hopes of the bigger cut rose after a stream of poor data last week, culminating in the non-farm payrolls report which showed the fastest rise in lay-offs in more than 20 years.
   TDBut strategists have warned that the Fed's aggressive percentage point of easing since the terrorist attacks of September 11 means it could defend a smaller rate cut on the basis it had already provisioned against the weakness of the economy in October.

Another 50 basis points would take the Fed funds rate to 2 per cent, and would be the tenth cut from the Fed since January. Given the pace and depth of the Fed's cuts this year, some strategists point out a further cut would give the Fed little in reserve should something else hit the economy.

"There's a good chance the market's hopes will be disappointed," said Mitul Kotecha, global head of FX strategy at Credit Agricole Indosuez. "Markets have largely dismissed October's data as having been affected by the events of September 11, and the Fed could do likewise."

While traditionally, interest rate cuts weaken a currency, the market's preoccupation with growth - or the lack of it - this year has meant an interest rate cut has usually boosted a currency.

The dollar was at $0.8960 against the euro, up from a New York close on Monday of $0.8979. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument ftcom00020011107dxb6000br  



 HD Text - FOMC Statement on Tuesday's  Interest Rate  Cut.    WC410 words   PD6 November 2001   ET20:25   SNMarket News International   SCMARNEW   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001. Market News International, Inc.
   LP - FOMC's Oct. 2 Statement Follows for Comparison 

 WASHINGTON (MktNews) - The following statement was released Tuesday afternoon by the Federal Open Market Committee after its latest interest rate cut: 
   TD "The Federal Open Market Committee decided today to lower its target for the federal funds rate by 50 basis points to 2 percent. In a related action, the Board of Governors approved a 50 basis point reduction in the discount rate to 1 1/2 percent. 

 "Heightened uncertainty and concerns about a deterioration in business conditions both here and abroad are damping economic activity. For the foreseeable future, then, the Committee continues to believe that, against the background of its long-run goals of price stability and sustainable economic growth and of the information currently available, the risks are weighted mainly toward conditions that may generate economic weakness. 

 "Although the necessary reallocation of resources to enhance security may restrain advances in productivity for a time, the long-term prospects for productivity growth and the economy remain favorable and should become evident once the unusual forces restraining demand abate. 

 "In taking the discount rate action, the Federal Reserve Board approved requests submitted by the Boards of Directors of the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond. 

 *-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-* 

 The following is the statement released by the FOMC on Oct. 2: 

 "The Federal Open Market Committee decided today to lower its target for the federal funds rate by 50 basis points to 2-1/2 percent. In a related action, the Board of Governors approved a 50 basis point reduction in the discount rate to 2 percent. 

 "The terrorist attacks have significantly heightened uncertainty in an economy that was already weak. Business and household spending as a consequence are being further damped. Nonetheless, the long-term prospects for productivity growth and the economy remain favorable and should become evident once the unusual forces restraining demand abate. 

 "The Committee continues to believe that, against the background of its long-run goals of price stability and sustainable economic growth and of the information currently available, the risks are weighted mainly toward conditions that may generate economic weakness in the foreseeable future. 

 "In taking the discount rate action, the Federal Reserve Board approved requests submitted by the Boards of Directors of the Federal Reserve Banks of Boston, New York, Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, St. Louis, Kansas City and San Francisco." 

 ** Market News International Washington Bureau: (202) 371-2121 ** 

 [TOPICS: MMUFE$,MAUDT$,MAUDS$]. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States | usdc : Washington DC | uss : Southern U.S.   IPCWASHINGTON   ANDocument marnew0020011114dxb60025u  



 HD Latest rate cut to help Americans save, not spend.    BY By Richard Leong    WC823 words   PD7 November 2001   ET00:38   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 Reuters Limited
   LP NEW YORK, Nov 5 (Reuters) - The Federal Reserve's latest interest rate cut gives Americans a reason to cheer, but listen to Stacey Patterson, and she'll tell you to use the savings from the low rates to cut your debt, not spend it frivolously. 

 "You have to learn to cut back," said Patterson, who had her own brush with credit card problems a few years back and is now a part-time credit counselor at Profina, a national non-profit agency that helps people solve their debt problems. 
   TD While Tuesday's rate cut, the Fed's 10th this year, is aimed at boosting an economy now almost surely in recession, consumers, strapped by hefty debt loads and rattled by the fallout of the Sept. 11 by hijacked airliner attacks, are more concerned with cleaning up their finances than with spending. 

 That's not to say Tuesday's half a percentage point rate cut won't line the pockets of American consumers, who are responsible for two-thirds of the country's economic activities. It will help them by cutting monthly payments on things like car loans and, especially, credit card. 

 But in the shaky economy worsened by the Sept. 11 airplane attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon, those consumers, many of whom are actually having problems paying off bills, will now be more likely to use savings from lower rates to pare debts rather than to indulge in buying luxury items. 

 CONSUMERS OVERWHELMED BY SEPT. 11 

 Last week, the government reported that Americans spent 1.8 percent less in September than August, the biggest monthly drop in consumption since Jan. 1987. 

 At this stage of Fed's rate-cutting campaign, additional declines in rates benefit consumers in two ways: it reduces their monthly outlays and it improves companies' balance sheets, helping to prevent further layoffs, economists said. 

 "It's going to be an indirect effect on consumers through supporting businesses," said Lynn Reaser, chief economist at Banc of America Capital Management. 

 Despite a floundering stock market, Americans earlier this year brimmed with confidence over job security and the health of the overall economy. 

 But that wide-eyed optimism had eroded a bit before Sept. 11, and was all but wiped out after those attacks, which killed nearly 5,000 people and led to a rapid acceleration of job cuts - notably in the airline and hotel industries. 

 "The consumers have been overwhelmed," said Mark Zandi, chief economist at Economy.com. "They are not going to be spending more. They are going to get their debt burden down." 

 Americans, the most indebted in nearly 15 years, were already having problems meeting their debt obligations prior to the Sept. 11 attack. With an economic rebound unlikely in the near future, consumers are clearly on the defensive, trying to mend their free-spending ways ignited by the stock and housing booms of the late 1990s. 

 "There's no doubt that we are going to to see an increase in household financial problems into next year," Banc of America's Reaser said. But Reaser added that the Fed's rate cuts, plus falling energy prices should provide consumers with some financial cushion. 

 Bond rating agency Standard & Poor's credit card delinquency index rose to 5.07 percent in August vs. July's 4.86 percent. The index hit its highest level since 5.10 percent in February. 

 DIGGING OUT OF A HOLE 

 Fearful of losing their jobs, Americans now seem ready to put away their credit cards, and live more frugally. 

 "Sept. 11 clearly had a big effect on consumers," said Keith Leggett, senior economist at the American Bankers Association. "When you're hearing about layoffs, this is causing anxiety among consumers. They are doing what they can to improve their personal finances." 

 Bracing for rockier economic times, consumers have been socking away money, saving at levels not seen in nearly three years, according to the U.S. Department of Commerce. 

 Moreover, Americans have reined in their appetite to borrow. Since this spring, increase in consumer loans slowed after registering double-digit growth in the first three months of the year, according to the Federal Reserve. 

 Stacey Patterson is a living example that getting control of one's finances is entirely possible. Two years ago, the 27-year-old counselor at Profina was stuck in a $15,000 hole of credit card debt which amounted to half her annual salary. 

 But, resolved to stop her debt from eating away her entire paycheck, Patterson enrolled in Profina's credit management program. Since then, she has been able to negotiate lower interest rates and cut her credit balance in nearly half. 

 "I'm counseling them because I've been there." said Patterson, who has been a debt counselor with Profina for five months. "Nine of 10 they join after I speak with them." 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   ANDocument lba0000020011106dxb604ict  



 HD Is the Fed pushing its central bank peers?    BY By Daniel Sternoff    WC652 words   PD7 November 2001   ET00:16   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 Reuters Limited
   LP NEW YORK, Nov 6 (Reuters) - In the rarefied world of central banking, discretion and secrecy are at a premium. 

 So the U.S. Federal Reserve raised eyebrows in financial markets on Tuesday when it dropped what some analysts saw as a veiled hint to its colleagues around the world to join in it lowering interest rates to ward off a global slump. 
   TD The Fed slashed short-term U.S. interest rates for a 10th time this year, cutting its benchmark federal funds rate by half a percentage point to a four-decade low of 2.0 percent. 

 In its sparsely detailed policy statement, the Fed made an explicit reference to a darkening international outlook for the first time in months, citing "heightened uncertainty and concerns about a deterioration in business conditions both here and abroad." 

 "Weakness abroad reappeared as an explicit concern for the first time since August," said Peter Hooper, chief economist at Deutsche Banc Alex. Brown. "Perhaps it's a message to the Fed's central banking colleagues elsewhere, as well as a simple statement of obvious fact?" 

 The Fed's rate decision came two days before interest rate meetings by the Bank of England and the European Central Bank, which has shown far greater resistance to reducing interest rates this year despite mounting signs of economic weakness. 

 The Bank of Canada is also widely expected to reduce rates later this month. 

 "The FOMC has hinted to other central banks, namely the ECB, to maintain their easing actions," said Ashraf Laidi, chief currency analyst at MG Financial Group. 

 The ECB is expected to cut its benchmark refinancing rate on Thursday by a quarter-point to 3.5 percent, according to a Reuters poll. 

 FED IN THE FAST LANE, ECB TRAILS 

 While the Fed has aggressively cut rates by 4.5 percentage points this year, euro zone rates have fallen by only 1.0 percentage point as the three-year-old ECB has sought to burnish its credentials as an inflation fighter and defend its independence by bucking calls for it to loosen policy. 

 "The ECB has proved itself to be extremely headstrong in the past. I think the Fed wouldn't like to be knocked around and have subtle inferences as to policy," said Alan Ruskin, research director at 4Cast Inc. 

 Central banks around the world joined forces in late September in an unprecedented wave of coordinated interest rate cuts to keep global markets functioning in the wake of the Sept. 11 suicide plane attacks on New York and the Pentagon. 

 But that extraordinary spirit swiftly dissipated, with the ECB saying it was a one-time event justified to avert a crisis. 

 The central bank's reluctance to ease policy has cast a pall over the European single currency and drawn a host of calls by euro zone politicians for the bank to show more flexibility. 

 Overt pressure on the ECB has only caused the bank to dig in its heels, analysts say. That is why any subtle Fed pressure on its global peers caught the attention of analysts. 

 "If the Fed wasn't stating the obvious, you could read it as a little nudge and a wink to other central banks," Ruskin said. "They probably are nudging and winking, but they have other ways to do this. Why try to place overt pressure via the marketplace rather than having frank conversations?" 

 With economic news from the world's major industrial powers turning from bad to worse - a number of analysts warn of a risk of the first synchronized recession since the 1970s oil shock - most expect the ECB to soften its stance. 

 But perhaps only to a point. 

 "The ECB doesn't like to look like they are copying the Fed, so that points toward a 25 basis point cut," said Kurt Karl, chief economist at Swiss Re. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   ANDocument lba0000020011106dxb604hqb  



 HD Rate cuts far from cure-all for U.S. business.    BY By Julie MacIntosh    WC724 words   PD6 November 2001   ET23:49   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 Reuters Limited
   LP NEW YORK, Nov 6 (Reuters) - U.S. companies should reap some quick benefits from the 10th interest rate cut this year, but executives fear the lowest borrowing costs in 40 years won't be enough to kick-start ailing demand for goods and services. 

 The Federal Reserve's decision on Tuesday to aggressively cut U.S. interest rates by half a percentage point - its third such move since the Sept. 11 air attacks - will make it even cheaper to finance capital spending and service debt. 
   TD But a surge in unemployment in October, when employers slashed 415,000 workers from their payrolls for the worst monthly jobs toll in two decades, has companies worried that consumer confidence may also be set for a dive. This would be crucial, as the resilience of consumer spending this year has kept the economy from sinking at a time when capital spending has been hammered. 

 "Certainly, it's better than nothing, but interest rate cuts are not the solution to getting the economy going - it's consumer confidence, pure and simple," said John Correnti, chief executive at Birmingham Steel Corp. "If you're in industry or in manufacturing, you're not going to put a new factory in just because interest rates are low." 

 Many corporate leaders stressed a broader stimulus package from the government, including corporate tax breaks, would be necessary to trigger a recovery in capital spending. 

 "On top of interest rate cuts, we have to talk about other stimulus programs, like reducing taxes," said Jim Young, chief financial officer at Union Pacific Corp. 

 The interest rate cut on its own won't be enough to boost capital spending at Union Pacific, the nation's No. 1 railroad company, Young said. 

 "It's tough to tell if it's enough to boost the economy," he said. "Consumer confidence and tax policy are clearly going to be the major drivers here." 

 DEBT COSTS TO FALL 

 Some executives said the interest rate cuts - which have taken the key federal funds rate for overnight bank loans to just 2 percent - will have an impact, though after a delay. 

 "Ultimately, things like this tend not to have positive impact in demand overnight," said Dean Priddy, chief financial officer at wireless telephone equipment maker RF Micro Devices Inc. "But over time the lower interest rates should have an impact, especially for industries that are contemplating borrowing money," he said. 

 Certainly, there will be benefits as corporate borrowing costs decline. 

 Dial Corp., the No. 1 maker of antibacterial soap, has a floating interest rate on the majority of its debt, and repayment costs will definitely drop, said the company's treasurer, David Riddiford. 

 The soapmaker stands to see its pretax interest payments drop by $1.25 million annually based on Tuesday's rate cut, Riddiford said. 

 "It remains to be seen whether we'll get all of that for the full year," however, he said. 

 CASH HOLDINGS DRAG DOWN BENEFITS 

 Still, the benefits are not spread evenly. 

 Companies that built up piles of cash as the economy slowed are seeing lower interest income on their cash holdings offset the benefits of lower rates, executives agreed. 

 "The net impact is rather negligible because we actually will be earning less money on our cash balances," Priddy said. 

 "For us, (the rate cut) will have some slight translation to the bottom line, but it's really not enough for us to change any guidance." 

 Advertising and marketing firm TMP Worldwide Inc. is "cash rich" with a balance of a little more than $300 million, Jim Treacy, its chief operating officer, said. 

 Tuesday's new interest rates - which hit their lowest point in four decades - will reduce TMP's return on that cash, he said. 

 Clay Jones, chief executive officer at avionics and communications company Rockwell Collins Inc., said the firm has most of its roughly $200 million of debt in short-term instruments and has been enjoying the benefits of already-low low interest rates. 

 Jones said he's satisfied with moves by both Congress and the Fed to get the economy moving again. 

 "The stimulus is there. Now what we have to do is to get the confidence of the consumer and the American public back to where they need to be." 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   ANDocument lba0000020011106dxb604gt5  



 HD Recession fears dampen prospects for junk bonds.    BY By Dena Aubin    WC677 words   PD6 November 2001   ET22:43   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 Reuters Limited
   LP NEW YORK, Nov 6 (Reuters) - A recovery in U.S. equities touched off a bull market for junk bonds in October, but signs of deepening economic woes could make those gains tough to match this month. 

 "I thought we would be making a bottom around the third or fourth quarter of this year," said Marilyn Cohen, a money manager at Envision Capital Management in Los Angeles and author of "The Bond Bible." Now, she said, "It's really tough to find the light at the end of the tunnel." 
   TD Citing deteriorating business conditions, the Federal Reserve on Tuesday cut interest rates for a 10th time this year, by 0.50 percentage points to 2 percent. Not even the lowest fed funds rate in 40 years, though, will revive prospects for some cash-strapped companies, experts said. 

 "Certainly, it's better than nothing, but interest rate cuts are not the solution to getting the economy going," said John Correnti, chief executive of Birmingham Steel . "If you're in industry or in manufacturing, you're not going to put a new factory in just because interest rates are low." 

 Junk bonds appeared to be clawing their way out of a three-year slump a few weeks ago. For the month of October, the bonds chalked up total returns of 3.2 percent, the best performance of any U.S. fixed-income class, according to Merrill Lynch & Co. 

 In recent days, however, dire reports on consumer confidence, manufacturing activity and the labor market have confirmed the widespread view that the U.S. economy is in a recession - perhaps more severe than previously thought - making investors cautious. 

 S&P EXPECTS $100 BILLION IN DEFAULTS 

 "Credit quality is deteriorating faster than a speeding bullet, and all the liquidity the Fed has given to the banking system is not flowing to corporate America," said Cohen. "It is absolutely going to be harder to replicate any good numbers the market had in October." 

 Recessions hit junk-rated companies particularly hard. Slowing revenues make it tough for these debt-laden companies to make interest payments, and banks are less willing to lend. 

 Standard & Poor's has warned that about $100 billion of corporate debt will likely go into default this year, more than double last year's record $42.3 billion. 

 Rating agency Moody's Investors Service, meanwhile, has said the default rate could surge to 11 percent next year, as the Sept. 11 attacks on the United States worsen a three-year slump in corporate credit quality. 

 The Fed's rate cuts could ease the way for some junk-rated borrowers to refinance debt in coming months, but not the lowest-rated companies, Moody's said in a report on Monday. "High-yield bond issuance rebounded in October, but capital access remains strained for higher risk borrowers," the rating agency said. 

 SOME INVESTORS SEE VALUE 

 Still, junk bonds' gains last month suggest some investors are seeing value in the market. 

 "The market wants to believe you're going to get an economic recovery here," said Jeffrey Koch, high-yield portfolio manager for Strong Funds in Menononee Falls, Wisconsin. "The fact that we're getting bad numbers is somewhat overlooked by the market." 

 Indeed, junk bond funds returned a whopping 37 percent on average in 1991, a recession year when defaults hit a record 13.1 percent. Funds gained because their managers had loaded up on cheap bonds, which then soared ahead of a sharp economic recovery in 1992. 

 The average junk bond now is trading at just 78 cents on the dollar, which leaves plenty of room for capital gains when the economy recovers, said Kingman Penniman, president of KDP Investment Advisors in Montpelier, Vermont. Rating agencies are also forecasting a falling default rate next year, which also should help junk bonds, he said. 

 "People are very cognizant of the fact that most equities and bonds will lead the recovery before it comes," Penniman said. "It's a question of timing." 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | mntdbt : National Government Debt/Bond Markets   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   ANDocument lba0000020011106dxb604ffg  



 HD UPDATE 6-INSTANT VIEW-Corporate comments on Fed rate cut.    WC792 words   PD6 November 2001   ET21:48   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 Reuters Limited
   LP NEW YORK, Nov 6 (Reuters) - The Federal Reserve cut U.S. interest rates by half a percentage point on Tuesday for the third time since the Sept. 11 attacks, and signaled its readiness to do more to help an economy widely believed to be in recession. 

 The following are comments from corporate executives on the Fed's decision: 
   TD DICK SYRON, CHAIRMAN, THERMO ELECTRON CORP. 

 "In light of the events of last month and the softening economy that ensued, it was absolutely the right thing to do. 

 "In the short run, in some sectors (the rate cut) will spur capital spending. But in sectors that have any exposure to telecommunications and semiconductor industries, there's inventory that still needs to be worked off." 

 "It's nice to have something that makes you feel better. Indirectly it will stimulate the equity market and that's the primary way it will get to corporations." 

 MATTHEW STROUD, SENIOR DIRECTOR OF INVESTOR RELATIONS, DARDEN RESTAURANTS 

 "We certainly think it will help us ... This should lead people to refinance mortgages and more disposable income, and that should help restaurants. 

 "The Fed needed to keep a little powder in the keg. You don't want to cut too much at one time and have no ammunition for opportunities the future." 

 JIM YOUNG, CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER, UNION PACIFIC CORP. 

 "I think the 50 basis points reduction was the right move. It clearly will be part of the solution going forward, but a lot of other things have to happen. On top of interest rate cuts we have to talk about other stimulus programs, like reducing taxes. 

 "Clearly we've seen benefits so far this year and we'll continue to see benefits going forward. The kind of reductions we're seeing, particularly if they're sustained, will have a nice improvement in interest rate costs. Sure, it will help our bottom line. 

 "No, it won't boost our capital spending. What will make us look at capital spending will be our expectations in terms of economic growth and improving our productivity. We won't look at buying back our own shares, but we'll look at that in the next year or two. 

 "It's tough to tell if its enough to boost the economy. If you look at real interest rates in Japan, they have been about zero for some time and hasn't spurred the economy. Consumer confidence and tax policy are clearly going to be the major drivers here." 

 JIM TREACY, CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER, ADVERTISING AND MARKETING FIRM TMP WORLDWIDE INC. 

 "We're a growth company, so the lower the interest rates, the better. 

 "We have some cash too, so it reduces our return. 

 "We're cash rich. We have a little over $300 million in cash. We have contemplated a bond offering of a couple hundred million dollars. 

 "The only thing that was holding up the economy was the consumer, and I can't think of a deeper shock to the consumer than what happened on Sept. 11." 

 DAVID RIDDIFORD, SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT AND TREASURER, DIAL CORP. 

 "The market has anticipated this cut, so it's been kind of baked into LIBOR and what not in varying degrees for the most part anyway, prior to today. But overall, it will reduce our borrowing costs going forward. 

 "In fact the majority of our debt is floating rate, so it will obviously reduce our cost of funds. 

 "Because interest rates may move down 25 basis or 50 basis points, long term doesn't necessarily justify making a long-term capital (spending) decision." 

 DEAN PRIDDY, CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER, WIRELESS TELEPHONE EQUIPMENT MAKER RF MICRO DEVICES 

 "It will help the entire economy. Ultimately, things like this tend not to have positive impact in demand overnight, but over time the lower interest rates should have an impact, especially for industries that are contemplating borrowing money. We think it's probably going to be very good for the (wireless) infrastructure market because that's a pretty capital intensive market." 

 "It seems very reasonable to me that the Fed has taken this action and it would also seem very reasonable if the government provided some fiscal stimulus as well because it does appear that the economy does need a boost. The one-two punch is really something that could get the economy rolling sooner rather than later." 

 JOHN CORRENTI, CHIEF EXECUTIVE, BIRMINGHAM STEEL 

 "Certainly, it's better than nothing, but interest rate cuts are not the solution to getting the economy going. It's consumer confidence, pure and simple. 

 "If you're in industry or in manufacturing, you're not going to put a new factory in just because interest rates are low." 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nedc : Commentary/Opinion   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   ANDocument lba0000020011106dxb604cbv  



 HD INSTANT VIEW-Corporate comments on Fed rate cut.    WC122 words   PD6 November 2001   ET20:41   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 Reuters Limited
   LP NEW YORK, Nov 6 (Reuters) - The Federal Reserve cut U.S. interest rates by half a percentage point on Tuesday for the third time since the Sept. 11 attacks, and signaled its readiness to do more to help an economy widely believed to be in recession. 

 The following are comments from corporate executives on the Fed's decision: 
   TD JOHN CORRENTI, CHIEF EXECUTIVE, BIRMINGHAM STEEL 

 "Certainly, it's better than nothing, but interest rate cuts are not the solution to getting the economy going. It's consumer confidence, pure and simple. 

 "If you're in industry or in manufacturing, you're not going to put a new factory in just because interest rates are low." 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   ANDocument lba0000020011106dxb604c6f  



 HD UPDATE 6-INSTANT VIEW-FX/DEBT-Fed cuts rates 50 bps to 2 pct.    WC1,311 words   PD6 November 2001   ET20:52   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 Reuters Limited
   LP NEW YORK, Nov 6 (Reuters) - Following are comments from economists and market experts after the Federal Reserve cut short-term interest rates by a half percentage point to 2.00 percent and said it stands ready to do more if needed. 

 BOB BRUSCA, ECOBEST CONSULTING, NEW YORK: 
   TD "They focus for first time here on weak conditions both here and abroad.... It looks like there is subtle call here to try to get economies overseas to jump in and do a little bit more perhaps on the interest rate front." 

 Brusca was speaking on Reuters Television. 

 ERIC GREEN, SENIOR ECONOMIST, BNP PARIBAS CORP., NEW YORK: 

 "It shows that the Fed is going to remain very aggressive and very vigilant. I think the fed funds rate is going to go lower in December, another 25 basis points. Thereafter the Fed is going to be much more cautious. 

 "They also appreciate the fact that fiscal stimulus is on the way so they don't want to shoot all their bullets." 

 JOSEPH LAVORGNA, ECONOMIST, DEUTSCHE BANC ALEX. BROWN, NEW YORK: 

 "It's what we thought, and the discount rate cut (vote) was unanimous, it means there's a lot of uniformity in view. They're going to go again, probably 25 (basis points) in December." 

 DOMINIC KONSTAM, INTEREST-RATE STRATEGIST, CREDIT SUISSE FIRST BOSTON, NEW YORK: 

 "It was short, sweet, to the point. It was aggressive. They kept the easing bias and they're giving no hints that they're nearing the end of the easing cycle. They cut through all the petty uncertainties that people have been raising. It's a very strong action. 

 "We think they will cut rates again in December, though it's a toss-up between 25 basis points and 50 basis points. It's a bit early to judge. There's no hint in this statement that they have any reason to slow down, but they'll look to see how Christmas shopping starts to look. Our official call is for 1.5 percent fed funds rate mid-year 2002 but there's a risk that it will fall to one percent." 

 DREW MATUS, ECONOMIST, LEHMAN BROTHERS, NEW YORK: 

 "They noted weakness in the economy and they noted it was related to September 11. I think this is obviously just a measure to keep things from falling apart in light of the attacks and in light of the huge drop in consumer confidence we've seen. It's right in line with our forecasts that they're going to cut rates one more time. They'll do 25 in December and that will probably be the last rate cut we get from the Fed for a while. They'll probably sit on their hands after that and wait for the rest of the FOMC rate cuts to follow through into the economy. 

 "It puts them closer to the end of their ammunition, but it shows they're not afraid to go down to the wire here if they have to." 

 WILLIAM CHENEY, CHIEF ECONOMIST, JOHN HANCOCK FINANCIAL SERVICES, BOSTON: 

 "The risks are on the downside right now in the economy right now. Clearly, there's every reason to stimulate the economy as much as we can. They are still bullish on the long run in the economy. 

 "As far as further easing moves are concerned, there are people in the Fed who are uncomfortable with the fed funds rate going down even further, but they can. It depends on what happens. Moving 50 basis points right now, they are doing what is need. They will move in December if things are worse than what they expect. It's 50-50 (chance of another cut) in December...They are definitely leaving the door open." 

 LARA RHAME, U.S. ECONOMIST, BROWN BROTHERS HARRIMAN, NEW YORK: 

 "It was a close call, but we were looking for 50 basis points. The Fed has decided for several reasons, and key in their thought process I think is the rapidly falling inflation, so they have a lot of room to be aggressive here. 

 "I think another key thing that stuck out for me was the hit to productivity growth. This to me indicates that once the economy does recover and start to grow, we may be faced with a lower trajectory of growth. 

 "I would think this would be dollar positive across the board. I think the ECB is not going to follow with a 50 basis point cut. So as the week goes on, this will be a dollar positive. I still think the ECB has shown such caution they would like to see inflation below two percent before they go. I don't think they are going to cut. A dollar positive going forward, yes, but only modestly so because gains will be capped due to the U.S. economy underperforming in the coming months." 

 IAN MORRIS, CHIEF U.S. ECONOMIST, HSBC SECURITIES, NEW YORK: 

 "I think the key thing here is that they're going to keep cutting. The major thing in the statement is they've really brought the deteriorating conditions abroad high into the picture. 

 "Perhaps 25 basis point cut in December and 25 basis points in January." 

 ANTHONY KARYDAKIS, SENIOR FINANCIAL ECONOMIST, BANC ONE CAPITAL MARKETS: 

 "They did what everyone in the world was expecting them to do in the last day or two so that's why the market response is somewhat muted. The statement was very straightforward, referring to heightened uncertainty and concerns about a deterioration in business conditions both here and abroad. The bottom line is - they're going to ease again." 

 WILLIAM DAWSON, CHIEF INVESTMENT OFFICER OF FIXED INCOME, FEDERATED INVESTORS, PITTSBURGH, PA.: 

 "I think they're clearly worried about serious economic numbers. The numbers that are coming out now are bad. But they are playing a psychological game now. Not enough time has elapsed for the previous cuts to make a difference in the economy. 

 "The housing market is starting to get soft. The jobless rate is going up. Thats what they are fighting. This economy is likely to be weaker longer than the consensus expected. There is some chance it will bottom sometime next year. 

 "The big issue is the consumer and what does the consumer do? There is just too much uncertainty. You are seeing a change in the psychology of the way people spend." 

 RICHARD HOEY, CHIEF ECONOMIST, DREYFUS CORP., NEW YORK: 

 "The American policymakers are pulling out all stops to stimulate the US economy. They're providing powerful monetary and fiscal stimulus, and we saw the Treasury suspend 30 year bond issuance last week. 

 "The U.S. stands in contrast with other industrialized countries. The Europeans and Japanese have been sluggish to stimulate their economies. The U.S. response is appropriate given the recession that we're in, and it's sharp contrast to other countries, where policymakers sit on their hands, so to speak. 

 "The bond market has been expecting further easings. A 50 basis point cut was the most likely case built into market, but the cut does shift sentiment toward the belief that the fed funds rate will drop below 2 percent. There are powerful implications of getting short-term interest rates below that level. 

 "Historically, people have initially hoarded liquidity in money market investments, but as yields came down, there was a willingness to stretch out to higher risk investments. It looks like we're going to repeat that cycle. The stock market is off its lows, and while it will be up and down, I think we ended the bear market on September 21. There is a lot of money in money market funds where the yields are pretty low, and now there is a temptation to look for other investments." 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | nanl : Analysis | ncat : Content Types   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   ANDocument lba0000020011106dxb604c0u  



 HD INSTANT VIEW-FX/DEBT-Fed cuts rates 50 bps to 2 pct.    WC107 words   PD6 November 2001   ET20:33   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 Reuters Limited
   LP NEW YORK, Nov 2 (Reuters) - Following are comments from economists and market experts after the Federal Reserve cut short-term interest rates by a half percentage point to 2.00 percent and said it stands ready to do more if needed. 

 BOB BRUSCA, ECOBEST CONSULTING, NEW YORK: 
   TD "They focus for first time here on weak conditions both here and abroad.... It looks like there is subtle call here to try to get economies overseas to jump in and do a little bit more perhaps on the interest rate front." 

 Brusca was speaking on Reuters Television. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nedc : Commentary/Opinion   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   ANDocument lba0000020011106dxb604bvk  



 HD UPDATE 5-U.S. Fed cuts rates half point, ready for more.    BY By Glenn Somerville    WC1,053 words   PD7 November 2001   ET00:55   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 Reuters Limited
   LP WASHINGTON, Nov 6 (Reuters) - The Federal Reserve cut U.S. interest rates a half-percentage point on Tuesday to the lowest level in 40 years as it sought to brake the economy's slide into probable recession in the wake of the Sept. 11 attacks. 

 The Fed chopped its key federal funds rate for overnight bank loans for a 10th time this year to 2 percent - a level not seen since during the Kennedy administration in 1961. The central bank also lowered its more symbolic discount rate by a half-point to 1.5 percent. 
   TD Financial markets responded enthusiastically to the U.S. central bank's clear determination to do whatever it could to pump vigor into an economy left reeling after the shattering attacks against the World Trade Center and the Pentagon. 

 Stocks rallied as interest rates sank below the level of increases in consumer prices, cutting the real cost of borrowing to essentially below zero, and banks reduced prime lending rates for their best corporate customers to 5 percent from 5.5 percent. 

 That means lower prices for auto, home equity and some credit card loans that are tied to the prime rate. The blue-chip Dow Jones industrial average added 150.09 points to close at 9,591.12 while the Nasdaq composite index gained 41.43 points and ended at 1,835.08. 

 WARNING OF GLOBAL SLOWDOWN 

 The Fed highlighted the risk not only of a worsening U.S. downturn but also a possible slide in global activity. The cost of increased security was putting pressure on productivity and worry was weighing on consumer demand, it added. 

 "Heightened uncertainty and concerns about a deterioration in business conditions both here and abroad are damping economic activity," the Fed said. Down the road, policymakers said the economy should bounce back once some of the clouds from the attacks and from an anthrax scare lift enough for consumers to recover confidence and resume spending. 

 Economist Bob Brusca of Ecobest Consulting in New York said the Fed in its statement might have been trying to encourage its European counterpart to do more to rouse activity there by cutting rates. 

 "It looks like there is a subtle call here to try to get economies overseas to jump in and do a little bit more perhaps on the interest-rate front," Brusca commented. The European Central Bank meets on Thursday amid signs inflation eased in the 12-nation euro zone last month. 

 Analysts praised the Fed's bold campaign - which has included three half-percentage point cuts since the attacks - and said the economy was getting a powerful dose of monetary and fiscal medicine that should spur a recovery next year. 

 "All the cuts this year have been necessary to try to stimulate a very weak economy," said economist Mark Zandi of Economy.com in West Chester, Pa. 

 But he said that the end may be nigh for the easing push. 

 "But I think this may be it if Congress puts a stimulus package in place by next month...If we're not at the very end of rate-cutting, we're very close," Zandi said. 

 All but one of 24 leading Wall Street bond dealers surveyed by Reuters expected a quarter-point rate reduction in December. But only half expected another similar-sized cut next year, a sign dealers see the rate-cutting cycle winding down. 

 The Fed suggested it remained optimistic about the future. 

 "Although the necessary reallocation of resources to enhance security may restrain advances in productivity for a time, the long-term prospects for productivity growth and the economy remain favorable and should become evident once the unusual forces restraining demand abate," it said. 

 Some analysts said that if the Fed was not done lowering rates, it might at least slow down, partly to conserve ammunition lest conditions worsen and partly because of a spate of fiscal stimulus measures likely to come on-stream soon. 

 "I think the fed funds rate is going to go lower in December, another 25 basis points. Thereafter, the Fed is going to be much more cautious," said Eric Green, senior economist at BNP Paribas Corp. in New York. 

 JOBS DISAPPEARING FAST 

 The latest cut comes against an increasingly grim backdrop of rising unemployment and eroding consumer confidence. In the third quarter, the United States logged its sharpest quarterly contraction in national economic activity since the last recession in 1990-91. 

 In its statement, the Fed said it still saw weakness, rather than price pressures, as the main threat to the U.S. economy - a sign it was ready to cut rates further should gross domestic product continue to shrink, as most private forecasters expect it will into early next year. 

 The economy already was slowing before hijacked aircraft flattened New York's World Trade Center and damaged the Pentagon, halting much of national commerce for days and inflicting lasting scars on airlines and other sectors. 

 Last week, the Commerce Department confirmed GDP contracted at a 0.4 percent rate in the third quarter. 

 During October, 415,000 jobs were scrubbed from payrolls, the most in two decades, as the combined impact of the attacks and anthrax fears hampered activity throughout the economy, 

 Most economists foresee GDP shrinking again this quarter and many think this will continue in the first quarter of 2002, easily meeting the commonly accepted definition of a recession in which national output falls for six months or more. 

 Coupled with the Fed's monetary easing, the government has added fiscal stimulus of about $55 billion in emergency spending and industry aid since the attacks and is weighing another tax-cut and spending program worth as much as $100 billion which, if passed by Congress, will kick in next year. 

 However, some in the corporate world said rate cuts were not the best tonic for falling corporate spending. 

 "Certainly it's better than nothing, but interest rate cuts are not the solution to getting the economy going. It's consumer confidence, pure and simple," said John Correnti, chief executive of Birmingham Steel . 

 "If you're in industry or in manufacturing, you're not going to put a new factory in just because interest rates are low," he added. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States | usdc : Washington DC | uss : Southern U.S.   ANDocument lba0000020011106dxb6043v8  



 HD WRAPUP 3-Europe prays for rate cut salvation.    BY By Brian Love    WC1,110 words   PD6 November 2001   ET20:40   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 Reuters Limited
   LP BRUSSELS, Nov 6 (Reuters) - European finance ministers on Tuesday were reduced to praying that the U.S. Federal Reserve's latest 50 point interest rate cut will be answered by one from the euro zone as a raft of dire economic news hammered home the threat of global recession and their apparent inability to do much about it. 

 The ministers swallowed one piece of bad news after another as they met in Brussels and could do little more than to repeat that their region's economic "fundamentals" were good, as Belgian Finance Minister and meeting chairman Didier Reynders put it. 
   TD The talks came ahead of a European Central Bank gathering on Thursday where economists are almost unanimously predicting euro zone rates will be cut by a quarter of a percentage point from their current level of 3.75 percent. 

 The pressure on the ECB will even greater following the Fed's half percentage point cut in its fed funds rate on Tuesday to two percent. It is the Fed's tenth cut this year and its third since the September 11 attacks on the U.S. 

 Britan is also seen cutting it's key interest rate on Thursday, possibly by a half-point, though most economists expect a cut of 25 basis points to 4.25 percent. 

 A draft of forecasts obtained by Reuters showed the European Commission planned to slash its predictions for growth this year and next, to 1.7 and 1.8 percent respectively when it publishes official revisions of growth scenarios later this month. 

 That was a far cry from the 2.8 percent economic expansion the Commission had envisaged back in April and came at the same time as another Commission survey which showed that euro zone economic sentiment hit its lowest since 1997 in October. 

 While European Commissioner Pedro Solbes refused to confirm the information obtained from the source, German Finance Minister Hans Eichel confirmed all the figures. 

 Separately, a Reuters survey of the euro zone service sector - which accounts for 60 percent of the economy of the 12-nation zone - registered the second month of shrinkage in a row in October. 

 Both reports were the first monthly readouts to take fuller account of the impact that the September 11 attacks have had on business morale and demand, which were already suffering since early this year as a U.S. slowdown fanned across to Europe. 

 STANDING BY AS CENTRAL BANKS MEET 

 The finance ministers could do little more than register the news, and perhaps hope that remarks from European Central Bank boss Wim Duisenberg showed the ECB was now less worried about inflation and prepared to cut euro zone rates on Thursday. 

 "I told the ministers our most recent assessment is that inflation is falling to levels well below the two percent limit," Duisenberg said on Monday night after talks with the inner circle of euro zone finance ministers. 

 Asked when, he said: "It will be early next year but then it will be well below and then it will stay there. 

 What was remarkable was that Duisenberg, who did not attend the wider meeting of EU ministers on Tuesday, routinely avoids any comment when leaving such meetings in Brussels. 

 Economists were convinced that the latest battery of data from Brussels and national capitals merely compounded the case for urgent rate cuts to try to head off recession risks. 

 "Clearly we are now seeing an across-the-board collapse in economic activity," Robert Lind at ABN Amro bank in London said after the release of the Reuters service sector survey. 

 Irish Finance Minister Charlie McCreevy made it clear that ministers were keen this time round not to be seen impinging on ECB independence with public clamours for rate cuts. 

 "I am for these matters being left to the president of the ECB," he said. "From the painful lessons that have been learnt, it is the best way," he said. 

 Another delegate told Reuters on condition of anonymity that ministers had agreed to refrain from sending hints or overt calls for rate cuts to the ECB. 

 Solbes, who is a bureaucrat rather than a minister, stuck to his guns however. 

 "The (European) central bank, as we said yesterday, has greater room for manoeuvre," he told a news conference, adding that this was made possible by abating inflation and promises by governments not to let deficits balloon. If the raft of crucial but somewhat esoteric reports on the state of the economy were not enough, Belgium's stricken Sabena airline was on the verge of being declared bankrupt, with 12,000 jobs at stake. 

 Belgian Finance Minister Didier Reynders, who was chairing the EU talks, was forced to cancel a news conference on Tuesday morning to take part in crisis meetings on the airline. 

 Later in the day, he told reporters that governments would continue to pursue structural reforms to improve their economies, one of the strategies continually sought by the ECB. 

 GLOOMY NEWS ON GERMANY JOBS 

 Germany, Europe's largest economy, meanwhile reported the largest monthly rise in unemployment in three years, saying 27,000 had joined the dole queues in October. 

 German Finance Minister Hans Eichel confirmed to reporters during his visit to Brussels that the Commission expected a rise in Germany's public deficit to 2.6 percent of GDP next year after 2.5 percent in 2001. 

 He dismissed talk of recession in the euro zone, but said as far as the United States was concerned: "It's not yet clear". That followed a downbeat report from the International Monetary Fund overnight which cut the IMF's forecasts for French growth next year to 1.6 percent from 2.1 percent, contradicting the French government line that growth would rise next year from a predicted expansion of two percent or more in 2001. 

 When the IMF forecast for 2002 was presented on Monday, IMF chief economist Alessandro Leipold told a news conference that the 0.5 percent cut in the prediction for France also offered a "ballpark" idea of the scale by which European growth could be hit next year as well. 

 One small ray of light came from French consumer confidence figures on Tuesday which showed that household morale in October had not suffered and in fact risen marginally. 

 Another member of the ECB's governing council, Austrian National Bank Governor Klau Liebscher, steered clear of any comment on rates at a Vienna conference but issued a hopeful message on growth. 

 Following a temporary slowdown the world economy will revert to sound growth in the course of 2002," he said. 
   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1119 : Reserve Assets | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | e51 : Trade/External Payments | ecat : Economic News | eec : European Union | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   ANDocument lba0000020011106dxb6041j4  



 HD Dollar Gains Vs. Other Currencies    WC315 words   PD5 November 2001   SNAP Online   SCASP   LAEnglish   CY Copyright 2001 The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved. 
   LP NEW YORK (AP) - The dollar was stronger against other major currencies Monday, as markets anticipated another interest rate cut from the Federal Reserve. 

 The dollar got a boost from rising stock and bond prices ahead of the Federal Open Market Committee meeting scheduled for Tuesday. The Dow Jones industrial average closed up 117.49, or nearly 1.3 percent, at 9,441.03, according to preliminary calculations. It was the index's third straight session to advance. 
   TD An interest rate cut would be the 10th this year. The dollar has strengthened on previous rate cuts, as investors applauded an aggressive monetary policy. 

 "The market is fully expecting an ease," said Joe Francomano, vice president of foreign exchange at Erste Bank in New York. "The decision is whether it's going to be 25 or 50 basis points." 

 In late New York trading, the euro was quoted at 89.71 cents, down from 90.25 cents late Friday. Meanwhile, the dollar was quoted at 121.80 Japanese yen, up from 121.63 yen. 

 The European Central Bank and the Bank of England are scheduled to decide on interest rates later this week. 

 The euro's drop against the dollar was a reflection of market uncertainty about the ECB's willingness to cut interest rates. 

 The dollar also was quoted at 1.6411 Swiss francs, up from 1.6314, and 1.5929 Canadian dollars, up from 1.5917. The British pound fell to $1.4589 from $1.4613. 

 Currencies of the 12 countries participating in the euro are no longer traded separately and are tied to the euro by a fixed rate. Based on Monday's euro rate, the dollar was worth 2.1797 German marks, up from 2.1670; 7.3103 French francs, up from 7.2678; and 2,157.89 Italian lire, up from 2,145.69. 
   RFAP-Dollar; D7FJH0800   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | e52 : Euro Zone/Currency | ecat : Economic News | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | m14 : Commodity Markets | m142 : Metals Markets | m1421 : Gold Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REeurz : Europe | namz : North America | uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | use : Northeast U.S. | usny : New York | weurz : Western Europe   IPC1312   IPDFinancial/Business | Dollar/Gold   ANDocument asp0000020011105dxb500go2  



 HD Gloomy economy sets stage for another Fed rate cut    BY By MARTIN CRUTSINGER    CRAP Economics Writer   WC764 words   PD5 November 2001   ET23:03   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY Copyright 2001.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved. 
   LP WASHINGTON (AP) - The economic landscape has turned much darker - consumer confidence is plunging, overall output is contracting and the number of Americans losing their jobs is at a 21-year high. 

 A 10th interest rate cut this year by the Federal Reserve is widely expected Tuesday. But the flood of bad economic data has raised fears the central bank's efforts to jump-start the economy could be overwhelmed, worsening a recession many analysts believe has already begun. 
   TD Adding to the economic uncertainty is the threat of more terrorist attacks and rising worries about anthrax contamination in the mail. 

 "The economy could really spiral downward if terrorism gets worse," said Sung Won Sohn, chief economist at Wells Fargo in Minneapolis. "That is a scary prospect because we have never faced anything quite like this before." 

 In normal times, the Fed's powerful medicine of lower interest rates would lift the economy out of a recession by boosting demand in interest-sensitive sectors such as housing, autos and big-ticket capital goods. 

 But all the central bank's credit easing could be undermined by the current climate. 

 The economic fallout from Sept. 11 was dramatically underscored Friday when the government reported that the unemployment rate jumped to 5.4 percent in October. In the biggest one-month job decline in 21 years, 415,000 Americans lost their jobs. 

 The government also reported last week that the economy - which had been growing weakly for more than a year - actually shrank at a 0.4 percent annual rate, as measured by the gross domestic product, in the July-September quarter. 

 Based on the size of the October job loss, analysts now are looking for the current quarter to show an even larger contraction. 

 "People don't know what is going to happen next," said Michael Evans of American Economics Group, who predicted the GDP would drop at a rate of 4 percent in the current quarter. The traditional definition of a recession is two consecutive quarters of declining GDP. 

 Adding to the picture of weakness, the National Association of Purchasing Management said Monday its index of activity in the service sector, where most Americans work, fell in October by the biggest amount since the index was created in 1997. 

 The Consumer Federation of America and the Credit Union National Association, a trade group for credit unions, also reported Monday that 28 percent of Americans now say they will spend less on gifts this holiday shopping season, up from 24 percent who expected to make cutbacks last year. 

 The Fed has cut rates nine times so far this year, including two half-point cuts since Sept. 11. Many economists are expecting the central bank will deliver another half-point rate cut on Tuesday. 

 That would push the federal funds rate, the interest that banks charge on overnight loans, from 2.5 percent, which is already the lowest since May 1962, down to 2 percent. 

 "The markets are expecting a half-point cut and the last thing the Fed wants to do right now is disappoint the markets, given all the data showing the economy tipping into a recession," said David Jones, chief economist at Aubrey G. Lanston & Co. in New York. 

 Lynn Reaser, chief economist at Banc of America Capital Management Inc. in St. Louis, said the Fed had room to make the larger rate cut because the weak economy has removed inflation as a threat. 

 "The near-term danger from inflation is very low while the danger from a negative spiral is very substantial," she said. 

 Even though the Fed does not have a lot to show for its 10-month credit easing campaign so far, most analysts believe the economy will rebound. However, they now believe the upturn may not arrive until the second half of the year, a significant change from the previous view that the GDP would start growing again in 2002's first quarter. 

 The expectation of a rebound, even if delayed, is based on the view that the Fed's sizable rate cuts will combine with President George W. Bush's earlier tax-cut package and as much as dlrs 100 billion in new economic stimulus being contemplated by Congress. 

 "The Fed has done a huge amount of heavy lifting. Now it is a matter of waiting for that to show up in economic muscle," said Tim O'Neill, chief economist of Harris Bank in Chicago. 

 --- 

 On the Net: 

Federal Reserve: http://www.federalreserve.gov
   RFRush   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1101 : Economic Growth | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gcon : Consumer Affairs | gcrim : Crime/Courts | gterr : Acts of Terror | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States | usdc : Washington DC | uss : Southern U.S. | usw : Western U.S. | uswa : Washington   IPCsldw2072 | selwstm- | tagwsfiler   IPDFinancial/Business | AP Worldstream | BC-US-Fed-Economy | 9c9f138a2b8c18f15f349d68b404db08   ANDocument aprs000020011105dxb500zu1  



 HD Gloomy economy sets stage for another Fed rate cut    BY By MARTIN CRUTSINGER    CRAP Economics Writer   WC761 words   PD5 November 2001   ET22:40   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY Copyright 2001.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved. 
   LP WASHINGTON (AP) - The economic landscape has turned much darker - consumer confidence is plunging, overall output is contracting and the number of Americans losing their jobs is at a 21-year high. 

 A 10th interest rate cut this year by the Federal Reserve is widely expected Tuesday. But the flood of bad economic data has raised fears the central bank's efforts to jump-start the economy could be overwhelmed, worsening a recession many analysts believe has already begun. 
   TD Adding to the economic uncertainty is the threat of more terrorist attacks and rising worries about anthrax contamination in the mail. 

 "The economy could really spiral downward if terrorism gets worse," said Sung Won Sohn, chief economist at Wells Fargo in Minneapolis. "That is a scary prospect because we have never faced anything quite like this before." 

 In normal times, the Fed's powerful medicine of lower interest rates would lift the economy out of a recession by boosting demand in interest-sensitive sectors such as housing, autos and big-ticket capital goods. 

 But all the central bank's credit easing could be undermined by the current climate. 

 The economic fallout from Sept. 11 was dramatically underscored Friday when the government reported that the unemployment rate jumped to 5.4 percent in October. In the biggest one-month job decline in 21 years, 415,000 Americans lost their jobs. 

 The government also reported last week that the economy - which had been growing weakly for more than a year - actually shrank at a 0.4 percent annual rate, as measured by the gross domestic product, in the July-September quarter. 

 Based on the size of the October job loss, analysts now are looking for the current quarter to show an even larger contraction. 

 "People don't know what is going to happen next," said Michael Evans of American Economics Group, who predicted the GDP would drop at a rate of 4 percent in the current quarter. The traditional definition of a recession is two consecutive quarters of declining GDP. 

 Adding to the picture of weakness, the National Association of Purchasing Management said Monday its index of activity in the service sector, where most Americans work, fell in October by the biggest amount since the index was created in 1997. 

 The Consumer Federation of America and the Credit Union National Association, a trade group for credit unions, also reported Monday that 28 percent of Americans now say they will spend less on gifts this holiday shopping season, up from 24 percent who expected to make cutbacks last year. 

 The Fed has cut rates nine times so far this year, including two half-point cuts since Sept. 11. Many economists are expecting the central bank will deliver another half-point rate cut on Tuesday. 

 That would push the federal funds rate, the interest that banks charge on overnight loans, from 2.5 percent, which is already the lowest since May 1962, down to 2 percent. 

 "The markets are expecting a half-point cut and the last thing the Fed wants to do right now is disappoint the markets, given all the data showing the economy tipping into a recession," said David Jones, chief economist at Aubrey G. Lanston & Co. in New York. 

 Lynn Reaser, chief economist at Banc of America Capital Management Inc. in St. Louis, said the Fed had room to make the larger rate cut because the weak economy has removed inflation as a threat. 

 "The near-term danger from inflation is very low while the danger from a negative spiral is very substantial," she said. 

 Even though the Fed does not have a lot to show for its 10-month credit easing campaign so far, most analysts believe the economy will rebound. However, they now believe the upturn may not arrive until the second half of the year, a significant change from the previous view that the GDP would start growing again in 2002's first quarter. 

 The expectation of a rebound, even if delayed, is based on the view that the Fed's sizable rate cuts will combine with President Bush's earlier tax-cut package and as much as $100 billion in new economic stimulus being contemplated by Congress. 

 "The Fed has done a huge amount of heavy lifting. Now it is a matter of waiting for that to show up in economic muscle," said Tim O'Neill, chief economist of Harris Bank in Chicago. 

 --- 

 On the Net: 

Federal Reserve: http://www.federalreserve.gov
   RFRush   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1101 : Economic Growth | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gcon : Consumer Affairs | gcrim : Crime/Courts | gterr : Acts of Terror | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States | usdc : Washington DC | uss : Southern U.S. | usw : Western U.S. | uswa : Washington   IPCsldf0223 | sel9---- | tagdsf   IPDFinancial/Business | AP Financial News | BC-Fed-Economy | 588ccf4a160454dc9e52476e438ef696   ANDocument aprs000020011105dxb500z75  



 HD Gloomy economy sets stage for another Fed rate cut    BY By MARTIN CRUTSINGER    CRAP Economics Writer   WC761 words   PD5 November 2001   ET22:39   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY Copyright 2001.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved. 
   LP WASHINGTON (AP) - The economic landscape has turned much darker - consumer confidence is plunging, overall output is contracting and the number of Americans losing their jobs is at a 21-year high. 

 A 10th interest rate cut this year by the Federal Reserve is widely expected Tuesday. But the flood of bad economic data has raised fears the central bank's efforts to jump-start the economy could be overwhelmed, worsening a recession many analysts believe has already begun. 
   TD Adding to the economic uncertainty is the threat of more terrorist attacks and rising worries about anthrax contamination in the mail. 

 "The economy could really spiral downward if terrorism gets worse," said Sung Won Sohn, chief economist at Wells Fargo in Minneapolis. "That is a scary prospect because we have never faced anything quite like this before." 

 In normal times, the Fed's powerful medicine of lower interest rates would lift the economy out of a recession by boosting demand in interest-sensitive sectors such as housing, autos and big-ticket capital goods. 

 But all the central bank's credit easing could be undermined by the current climate. 

 The economic fallout from Sept. 11 was dramatically underscored Friday when the government reported that the unemployment rate jumped to 5.4 percent in October. In the biggest one-month job decline in 21 years, 415,000 Americans lost their jobs. 

 The government also reported last week that the economy - which had been growing weakly for more than a year - actually shrank at a 0.4 percent annual rate, as measured by the gross domestic product, in the July-September quarter. 

 Based on the size of the October job loss, analysts now are looking for the current quarter to show an even larger contraction. 

 "People don't know what is going to happen next," said Michael Evans of American Economics Group, who predicted the GDP would drop at a rate of 4 percent in the current quarter. The traditional definition of a recession is two consecutive quarters of declining GDP. 

 Adding to the picture of weakness, the National Association of Purchasing Management said Monday its index of activity in the service sector, where most Americans work, fell in October by the biggest amount since the index was created in 1997. 

 The Consumer Federation of America and the Credit Union National Association, a trade group for credit unions, also reported Monday that 28 percent of Americans now say they will spend less on gifts this holiday shopping season, up from 24 percent who expected to make cutbacks last year. 

 The Fed has cut rates nine times so far this year, including two half-point cuts since Sept. 11. Many economists are expecting the central bank will deliver another half-point rate cut on Tuesday. 

 That would push the federal funds rate, the interest that banks charge on overnight loans, from 2.5 percent, which is already the lowest since May 1962, down to 2 percent. 

 "The markets are expecting a half-point cut and the last thing the Fed wants to do right now is disappoint the markets, given all the data showing the economy tipping into a recession," said David Jones, chief economist at Aubrey G. Lanston & Co. in New York. 

 Lynn Reaser, chief economist at Banc of America Capital Management Inc. in St. Louis, said the Fed had room to make the larger rate cut because the weak economy has removed inflation as a threat. 

 "The near-term danger from inflation is very low while the danger from a negative spiral is very substantial," she said. 

 Even though the Fed does not have a lot to show for its 10-month credit easing campaign so far, most analysts believe the economy will rebound. However, they now believe the upturn may not arrive until the second half of the year, a significant change from the previous view that the GDP would start growing again in 2002's first quarter. 

 The expectation of a rebound, even if delayed, is based on the view that the Fed's sizable rate cuts will combine with President Bush's earlier tax-cut package and as much as $100 billion in new economic stimulus being contemplated by Congress. 

 "The Fed has done a huge amount of heavy lifting. Now it is a matter of waiting for that to show up in economic muscle," said Tim O'Neill, chief economist of Harris Bank in Chicago. 

 --- 

 On the Net: 

Federal Reserve: http://www.federalreserve.gov
   RFRush   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1101 : Economic Growth | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gcon : Consumer Affairs | gcrim : Crime/Courts | gterr : Acts of Terror | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States | usdc : Washington DC | uss : Southern U.S. | usw : Western U.S. | uswa : Washington   IPCslda0646 | sel----- | tagdsa   IPDWashington | AP National News | BC-Fed-Economy | 01c95daed3c61530cb5fbaac65b3b0fc   ANDocument aprs000020011105dxb500z1c  



 HDFed expected to cut rates by another half-point.   BYBy GERARD BAKER IN WASHINGTON.    WC512 words   PD5 November 2001   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPThe US Federal Reserve is poised to cut interest rates on Tuesday for the tenth time this year, extending its most aggressive rate-cutting campaign in recent history amid yet more evidence of proliferating weakness in the world's economic locomotive.

Most financial market economists expect the US central bank's policy-making open market committee to lower its key overnight interest rate target by another half a percentage point to 2 per cent and signal there is almost certainly more to come.
   TDThere seems a slight chance that the Fed will opt for a more cautious rate cut of just a quarter point, but financial markets indicated on Monday that most investors were banking firmly on a 50 basis point move.

A year ago, short-term rates stood at 6.5 per cent, but since then growth has gone into free fall, sending unemployment sharply higher, industrial production into a tailspin and consumer and business confidence into a slump.

The Fed's easing of monetary policy no longer appears to be a battle to avert recession, which, with the publication of the most recent economic data, seems to have already begun during the last few months.

Instead the central bank is struggling desperately to minimise the damage from - and limit the duration of - the first extended period of negative growth in the world's largest economy since 1991.

The weakness was underlined on Monday with the latest report from the National Association of Purchasing Management that showed a sharp fall in service-sector activity in October.

The NAPM said its non-manufacturing index, based on data from US companies, dropped to 40.6 last month from 50.2 in September. It was the lowest reading in the index's four-year history.

The report followed the Labor department's employment figures on Friday that showed the biggest one-month rise in unemployment in October in 20 years as the service sector, which had previously displayed impressive solidity over the last year, succumbed to the slowdown.

The continuing slump poses special challenges for the Fed, which until this year had, under Alan Greenspan, its chairman, won high praise for a monetary policy that had steered a careful path between inflation and recession over the past 10 years.

At Tuesday's meeting there is likely to be debate about whether another aggressive move will severely limit the Fed's room for manoeuvre in the next few months. Markets are already expecting rates to go as low as 1.5 per cent in the near future. If that does not produce recovery the impression of an important monetary policy may grow and damage the central bank's credibility.

Against that, most economists, including those at the Fed, are still expressing confidence that monetary policy is effective - albeit with a long lag. The rate cuts already in the pipeline, together with those still to come, should, they believe, be enough to engineer an economic recovery by the middle of next year. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument ftcom00020011106dxb5000h8  



 HDCentral banks to dominate currency markets.   BYBy FT CORRESPONDENTS.    WC257 words   PD5 November 2001   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPInterest rate decisions by leading central banks are set to dominate currency markets this week.

The US Federal Reserve is expected to cut rates by either a quarter or half point on Tuesday. The Bank of England is forecast to follow on Thursday with a 25bp reduction, with the European Central Bank likely to match it later the same day.
   TDIf central banks act as expected, the dollar should enjoy a good week against the euro, say many strategists - though sterling could well be at the top of the pecking order.

Interest rate moves by the Fed and the Bank of England will be judged proactive, with the ECB's move condemned as reactive, they explain.

The ECB has been roundly criticised for not reducing rates at recent policy meetings, despite signs of easing inflationary pressure.

Tony Norfield, head of currency research at ABN Amro, said: "If you keep disappointing market expectations, you're not seen as clever if you finally do something right."

The UK has the added advantage of cutting from a position of strength. Economic growth accelerated in the third quarter, when the rest of the world is estimated to have slowed, though surveys in the past week have pointed to a fading of the country's consumer boom and a fall in house prices, which are key to consumer confidence.

Changes in the MSCI stock indices taking effect at the end of November are also sterling-positive, largely at the expense of the euro. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REeecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | gfr : Germany | namz : North America | uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | weurz : Western Europe   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument ftcom00020011105dxb5000bd  



 HDBleak outlook sets the tone.   BYBy FT CORRESPONDENTS.    WC180 words   PD5 November 2001   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPBond investors last week were surprised by the US Treasury suspending issuance of the long bond, which led to big rallies in government bonds.

Investors will focus this week on interest rate cuts, amid continuing evidence of an increasingly bleak global economic outlook.
   TDPolicy-setting meetings of the US Federal Reserve, the European Central Bank and the Bank of England all take place this week.

Very poor economic data from the US last week have led to predictions that the Open Market Committee will cut 25 or 50 basis points from the US Federal Funds rate at its meeting.

The outcome of the meeting of the ECB, one of the least aggressive central banks when it comes to cutting interest rates, is the most difficult to predict, although many analysts forecast a cut of 25bp in interest rates, with weak eurozone manufacturing data revealed last week.

The Bank of England Monetary Policy Committee is expected to cut interest rates by 25bp when it meets, although some are predicting a cut of 50bp. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument ftcom00020011105dxb5000b9  



 HD Wall Street hopes 10th rate cut puts floor under stocks.    BY By Haitham Haddadin    WC897 words   PD6 November 2001   ET00:13   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 Reuters Limited
   LP NEW YORK, Nov. 5 (Reuters) - Alan Greenspan & Co. are set to fire off another interest-rate cut on Tuesday, and Wall Street is betting the 10th reduction in a row will help boost stocks or least put a floor under the market. 

 "That's not a magic wand that's going to turn everything around," said Jay Mueller, economist and portfolio manager at Strong Capital Management Inc., which manages $42 billion. "It does a little bit of good at the margin, but the forces driving the economy down right now are very powerful; they are five years or more in the making and this thing doesn't turn on a dime." 
   TD The market has not rallied much after the latest bout of rate cuts by the U.S. Federal Reserve because the economy is weak due to overcapacity, not because interest rates are too high. Lower rates alone can't solve the economic weaknesses, but have minimized the damage to stocks from bleak corporate profit reports or weak economic data, pundits said. 

 Stock market investors traditionally welcome aggressive monetary easing by the U.S. central bank. This time, some believe rate cuts - in conjunction with fiscal stimulus like higher government spending or lower taxes - could do the trick of turning the economy and the market around in coming months. 

 "People say the Fed rate cuts are not effective. I would hate to think what the economy would look like if we still were at 6.50 percent short rates," said Mueller. "The stock market is trying to look through the valley to the mountain on the other side and the eventual recovery." 

 Stocks rose on Monday, as the Street geared up for the Fed meeting. But major market indexes are still, despite rallying from three-year lows in late September, way below levels where they where before the Fed began its aggressive monetary easing at the start of 2001. The broad market gauge, the Standard & Poor's 500, is down 16.50 percent so far this year. 

 Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, and the members of the policy-making Federal Open Market Committee will meet on Tuesday, with the announcement of their decision on interest rates expected around 1915 GMT. 

 TENTH CUT THE CHARM? 

 The last rate cut was on Oct. 2 when the Fed cut its benchmark for short-term rates throughout the nation down to 2.5 percent, its lowest level since 1962. At the time, the Fed said it was ready to slash rates further to help stave off the growing threat of recession. 

 The only other time there were 10 or more cuts in the fed funds rate was in the early 1990s, when the central bank cut rates a total of 24 times between June 1989 and September 1992 - whacking the benchmark rate for overnight bank lending down to 3.0 percent from 9.80 percent, a total of 680 basis points - said Sam Burns, equity research analyst at market research firm Ned Davis Research Group. The 10th cut in that series of fed funds rate easing occurred in December 1990. 

 In a Reuters poll of the 24 primary dealers of U.S. government securities on Friday, 15 predicted the Fed will lower the 2.5 percent fed funds rate to 2.0 percent on Tuesday. 

 With U.S. unemployment looking set to rise into the 6 percent to 7 percent range in coming quarters, a 1 percent funds rate next year looks increasingly likely, says Rory Robertson, interest-rate strategist at Macquarie Equities. 

 "The Fed's Federal Open Market Committee," or FOMC, "is unlikely to raise rates until well after unemployment stops rising, so investors can expect a sub-2 percent funds rate to be a feature of financial markets through 2002," Robertson said in a note. 

 ECONOMY STILL TROUBLED 

 It will take some time to work off the excesses that developed in the late 1990s, Mueller said. The primary excess was the capital spending boom, which turned into a bubble amid a huge commitment of investment resources to communications and technology. 

 "We are now in that stage of the unwind of the boom, Mueller said. "Capital spending has hit the skids for more than a year now, and employment peaked about a year ago and has been softening gradually and we are now at the stage where employment is getting much softer." 

 Things are likely to get worse before they get better, though. 

 "My guess is that that continues to get worse for another six months and we probably have two more negative quarters, the fourth quarter of this year and the first quarter of next year, before we really get to the excesses purged and start laying the foundation for the next up leg," Mueller said. 

 The rate cuts will ultimately boost stocks, argues Brian Pears, head of equity trading at Victory Capital Management, which oversees $71 billion. 

 "If they (investors) want money, they can get it, much more easily than probably any other time in the last half century," Pears said. "That's got to have a positive effect on stocks, but what balances that out is the economic weakness we are seeing right now and the threat of further terrorist activity. That's why we are moving sideways right now." 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REeurz : Europe | namz : North America | uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | weurz : Western Europe   ANDocument lba0000020011105dxb501xhd  



 HD Fed, facing dismal economy, seen slashing rates.    BY By Marjorie Olster    WC842 words   PD5 November 2001   ET21:34   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 Reuters Limited
   LP NEW YORK, Nov 5 (Reuters) - When the U.S. Federal Reserve meets on Tuesday, central bankers will have enough evidence of the devastating economic impact of the Sept. 11 attacks to warrant another half-point interest rate cut, economists say. 

 October data released last week showed the nation's unemployment rate spiked, consumer confidence and spending plunged and a manufacturing slump deepened. There is broad agreement that the United States is already in a recession. 
   TD "The employment report was the straw that would shift the Fed in the direction of lowering rates more aggressively," said Anthony Chan, chief economist at Banc One Investment Advisors in Columbus, Ohio. 

 The Fed has already made two half-point rate cuts since the Sept. 11 attacks that killed about 4,800 people, and most leading Wall Street dealers expect a third half-point cut. 

 Some economists predict the Fed will cut by only a quarter-point because the nine rate cuts put in place this year have not yet had their full impact and the central bank may want to keep some recession-fighting ammunition in reserve. 

 The FOMC decision is expected around 2:15 p.m. EST (1915 GMT) on Tuesday. Here is what Fed policy-makers will consider: 

 DISMAL DATA 

 Evidence mounted last week that a manufacturing-led downturn was at last taking its toll on U.S. consumers. 

 On Friday, the Labor Department reported the economy shed 415,000 jobs in October, the biggest monthly decline in more than two decades. The unemployment rate shot up to 5.4 percent from 4.9 percent in September. 

 "That begins to have an impact on aggregate income growth and people's expectations for what the future holds," said Tim O'Neill, chief economist at Bank of Montreal/Harris Bank. 

 The government said last week consumer spending slid 1.8 percent in September, its biggest decline in more than 14 years. Both O'Neill and Chan predict consumer spending will decline in the fourth quarter for the first time in a decade. 

 As layoffs spiked, the Conference Board reported its consumer confidence index fell to the lowest level in more than seven years in October. 

 With consumers on edge due to threats of more terror attacks and anthrax scares and no inflation concerns, the Fed cannot afford not to be aggressive, analysts argued. 

 The housing market, which had held up pretty well in the past year, showed signs of fraying in September. Existing home sales fell 11.7 percent in the largest drop since April 1995. 

 As consumers stumbled, the factory outlook also worsened. 

 The National Association of Purchasing Management's closely watched gauge of manufacturing activity sank to 39.8 in October - its lowest level since Feb. 1991, during the last recession. 

 SLIVERS OF HOPE? 

 Although far from encouraging, the government's first estimate of third-quarter gross domestic product last week did come in better than expected. 

 The Commerce Department said the economy contracted at a 0.4 percent rate in the July-September quarter, the worst performance since the last recession. That was confirmation for many that a recession had begun, but economists had expected a deeper 1.0 percent GDP decline. 

 One factor that pulled GDP lower was a larger-than-expected paring of inventories, which means that once demand picks up, companies are more likely to ramp up production rather than fill orders from their stockpiles. 

 "At least this suggests the foundation going into the fourth quarter is not as bad as it might be," said O'Neill. 

 Still, many expect a bigger decline in GDP in the fourth quarter than in the third. 

 Another sliver of hope was news that Americans bought new cars and trucks at a record pace in October, lured by interest-free financing. Economists said that demonstrated that low interest rates - especially at zero - still do work. 

 THE CASE FOR A QUARTER-POINT 

 Some economists predicted the Fed will cut rates by only a quarter point because there is already massive stimulus in the pipeline, which should boost the economy with a lag. 

 The government gave Americans $38 billion in tax rebates before the attacks in September. Another $40 billion was earmarked for emergency aid after the attacks, and added fiscal spending in the wake of Sept. 11 could reach $100 billion. 

 "The policy levers have been pulled harder and faster than in the 1990s recession," said O'Neill. 

 Optimists also say tumbling oil prices, which fell below $20 a barrel for the first time in more than two years on Friday, will grease the wheels of recovery next year. 

 Additionally, the Treasury Department's decision last week to scrap future sales of 30-year government bonds brought long-term market interest rates down sharply, which may add a mild stimulus to the economy by pulling mortgage rates down. 

 However, economists said they did not expect the Treasury's shift to have much impact on the broader economy, or on the Fed's decision on Tuesday. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   ANDocument lba0000020011105dxb5013tf  
 Page 1 of 1      2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.


 

 Page 1      2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.

