 


 HD UPDATE 1-Asia retail investors uninspired by U.S. Fed cut.    BY By Susan Fenton    WC909 words   PD19 April 2001   ET13:51   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 Reuters Limited
   LP HONG KONG, April 19 (Reuters) - The U.S. Federal Reserve's surprise move to cut interest rates failed to impress Asian retail investors who say the global economic outlook is too uncertain for them to jump back into stocks just yet. 

 "I'm not a professional but I just have a feeling it hasn't bottomed out yet," said a sales and marketing director at a publishing company in Singapore. 
   TD "I'm looking for a golden opportunity to buy stocks again. I'm looking for a '98 type of crash so that I can buy at a cheap price," he added 

 The 50 basis point cut in the U.S. federal funds rate, to 4.5 percent, was the fourth cut in as many months in a bid to revive a sluggish economy. 

 Wall Street rejoiced at the news with the technology laden Nasdaq Composite Index surging 8.12 percent to 2,079.44 and the blue-chip Dow Jones industrials leaping 3.9 percent to 10,616. 

 Asian markets sprinted up on Thursday, but investors, still nursing losses from the region's economic crisis of 1997/98, were wary of pouring money into equities. 

 "I had HK$600,000 invested in the stock market. Today it's worth about $125,000. I have no more money to invest," said an executive with a large container shipping company in Hong Kong, who declined to be identified. 

 "For the average man on the street in Hong Kong, this rate cut changes nothing. People are still poor, jobs are being lost as industry relocates to China, and property prices are still depressed," he said. 

 OPPORTUNITY KNOCKS 

 Not all investors were sceptical and there were clearly opportunists in the market. 

 "I just sold my shares in the morning. I think I got a return about 10-20 percent," Andy Tan, a 32-year old Information Technology consultant in Singapore said. "I will look for more stocks that I want to buy. I think stocks are a good form of investment." 

 Others said the rate cut underpinned longer-term investments, especially in expensive real estate markets like Hong Kong. 

 "It's pretty good news, it means people can buy a mortgage," said Sam Hui, who works in sales and marketing for an Internet company in Hong Kong. 

 Hong Kong tends to track U.S. interest rate moves because of its currency peg to the dollar. 

 The Hong Kong Monetary Authority cut its discount base rate by 50 basis points to 6.0 percent on Thursday, raising hopes domestic banks would follow suit when they meet on Friday. 

 But Hui was less sure about buying stocks. 

 "I lost money on stocks in the financial crisis two years ago and sold them all. The global situation is very uncertain so I will be sticking with bank deposits for the moment," he said. 

 The territory's benchmark Hang Seng Index leapt 4.4 percent on Thursday, but that may prove a knee-jerk reaction. 

 The Hang Seng is still down 10 percent so far this year despite easier interest rates. Similar trends are in place elsewhere, including on U.S. markets. 

 "At 2000, the Nasdaq might look attractive, but it's not attractive enough in my view," said Warren Koo, Asia Pacific sales manager with a European technology and telecoms company. 

 Koo said he was holding cash and had not been invested for more than a year. 

 When he does return to the markets, he said he was likely to favour U.S. listed technology stocks but added that he wanted harder evidence of a recovery in earnings before committing. 

 "A couple of companies meeting earnings forecasts that they've already revised down doesn't say to me that the recovery's started. I'm watching the markets, but there's nothing that's going to get me in right now. It's too risky," he said. 

 GREED NOT GOOD 

 Steering clear of volatility and the often greed-inspired spikes in markets was the top priority of other investors. 

 Memories of recent losses are still too vivid for some investors - especially the elderly - to contemplate a return to the rollercoaster ride of the stock market. 

 "Stock markets can go up and down, so even if markets rallied today it doesn't mean it will rally tomorrow," said the 70-year old retired engineer, who declined to be identified. 

 "More than 10 years ago, I was told to diversify my asset into cash, stocks and property, so I bought some stocks. I followed exactly what my broker told me, and I made some gains... then the bubble crushed then I made a big loss. I think if you invest in stocks you get greedy. I am retired and I want a safe investment," he said. 

 But for some younger investors, the thrill of chasing long term gains from the riskiest assets is hard to resist. 

 "I hold mostly tech stocks which I bought last year. It's been a horrible year but I'm prepared to lose. I'm young and I'm prepared to take risks," Jeffery Yang, a 22-year old technology consultant from Singapore said. 

 "I won't be surprised if it (the market) goes down again, but I look at long-term potential," he said. 

 (With additional reporting by Natsuko Waki in Singapore and Nick Edwards in Hong Kong). 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REasiaz : Asia | china : China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America | usa : United States   ANDocument lba0000020010713dx4j01r29  



 HD UPDATE 1-Buba's Zeitler says ECB focused on eurozone data.    WC314 words   PD19 April 2001   ET12:21   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 Reuters Limited
   LP FRANKFURT, April 19 (Reuters) - Bundesbank council member Franz-Christoph Zeitler on Thursday fought off pressure on the European Central Bank to cut interest rates in the wake of the Federal Reserve's cut, saying the ECB focuses on domestic data. 

 "The Fed makes its interest rate decisions based on American data, the ECB reaches its interest rate decisions based on European data, particularly monetary developments and inflation prospects," Zeitler told Reuters. 
   TD He was speaking before the release of data showing that headline euro zone inflation was unchanged at 2.6 percent in March and that core inflation rose. 

 Zeitler also said that attempts to pile pressure on the ECB would not help the euro zone economy. Sluggish growth and private consumption have more to do with structural impediments and job market regulation than with interest rates, he said. 

 Zeitler, president of the state central bank of Bavaria, does not have a say in ECB decision making. 

 The central banker said the ECB was taking seriously its promise to euro zone citizens to keep inflation under two percent over the medium term. 

 "This is not about monthly inflation rates but the prospects for inflation in the coming months. Personally, I have the impression that the price pressures from last year's energy price shock and weak euro have not yet completely passed." 

 Administrative prices such as the environment tax in Germany have also played a role in price pressures, he added. 

 "We have to ensure that we go into next year's tough wage negotiations with a calm and stable price situation," Zeitler said. 

 The ECB is seen under increased pressure to cut its benchmark interest rate from the current 4.75 percent after the Federal Reserve surprised markets by cutting its benchmark rate by half a point to 4.50 percent on Wednesday. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | eec : European Union | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations   REeurz : Europe | gfr : Germany | namz : North America | usa : United States | weurz : Western Europe   ANDocument lba0000020010713dx4j01qw5  



 HD UPDATE 2-Fed's Ferguson sees room for more rate moves.    BY By Anna Willard    WC688 words   PD19 April 2001   ET20:46   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 Reuters Limited
   LP (incorporates ECONOMY-FED-FERGUSON-POLICY, adds quotes, details throughout) 

 WASHINGTON, April 19 (Reuters) - Federal Reserve Vice Chairman Roger Ferguson said on Thursday the central bank had ample room to lower interest rates further and said it was an "open question" as to how low rates might need to go to revive the flagging U.S. economy. 
   TD A day after the Fed startled markets by cutting the benchmark federal funds rate a half-percentage point, Ferguson said "there's plenty of room" for more rate moves. 

 "We will continue to be vigilant to ensure that the economy does not tip into recession," he said after a speech to the National Economists Club and the Society of Government Economists. 

 During his speech, Ferguson expressed uncertainty as to how much more rate-cutting - the Fed has cut rates a total of 2 percentage points in four moves already this year - may lie ahead. 

 "What interest rates will be associated with a return to healthy growth in spending remains an open question," he said. 

 Wednesday's rate reduction brought the key fed funds rate down to 4.5 percent and most economists expect the Fed to lower it further at its next policy-setting meeting on May 15 as it tries to steer the U.S. economy clear of recession. 

 OUTLOOK UNCERTAIN 

 Ferguson said there was more than the usual amount of uncertainty about the U.S. economic outlook at the moment and added: "I think it is too early to have a strong conviction that the economy is reaching the end of this period of quite slow growth." 

 He said that it was "not an unreasonable hypothesis" that the lags between interest rate moves and their impact on the economy have become shorter, holding out hope the U.S. economy could pick up steam quicker than in years past. 

 Still, he said that a buildup of unsold high-tech goods will take "some time" to sell off, although businesses are moving quickly to make production adjustments. 

 Echoing the statement the Fed issued on Wednesday to explain its latest rate cut, Ferguson said that the central bank is "especially concerned" about the outlook for capital spending by businesses. 

 "Profit expectations have been revised down, and reports that businesses have been postponing capital improvements are widespread," Ferguson said. 

 He added that he believes recent data indicate that the economy is still experiencing positive, although very slow, growth. Some economists had become concerned the economy may have contracted in the first quarter of this year. 

 In the fourth quarter of 2000, the latest quarter for which data are available, the economy expanded at an anemic 1 percent pace versus 8.3 percent in the last three months of 1999. 

 The U.S. central bank indicated in its post-rate cut statement that it still sees the risks to the economy tilted toward weakness. But Ferguson said generally when the FOMC uses this language, it does not "just mean recession." 

 "I believe the committee would be justified in recognizing risks weighted toward economic weakness if it saw prospects for subpar growth - that is growth below the rate of increase in the economy's potential," he said. 

 FED AT TIMES WILL SURPRISE 

 In his speech, which focused primarily on "transparency" in monetary policymaking, the Fed vice chairman said that while transparency enhances policy effectiveness, this does not mean a central bank will never startle the market. 

 "At times, getting policy right will involve taking action unexpected by the market - for example in timing and magnitude," Ferguson said. 

 "This situation is most likely to arise when economic or financial conditions are changing particularly rapidly. This might be associated with financial or economic crisis...but it need not be," he added. 

 On the occasion of its latest rate reduction, the Fed was facing an unusually long gap between FOMC meetings, Ferguson noted. The last policymakers' meeting was on March 20. 

 The Fed governor also touched briefly on the economic situation in Japan, saying that the policymakers in that country face some "unique policy challenges." 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   ANDocument lba0000020010713dx4j01qot  



 HD Fed's Ferguson-plenty of room for more rate moves.    WC137 words   PD19 April 2001   ET19:25   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 Reuters Limited
   LP WASHINGTON, April 19 (Reuters) - Federal Reserve Vice Chairman Roger Ferguson said on Thursday, a day after the Fed startled markets with a half-point interest rate cut, that there is "plenty of room" for monetary policy actions. 

 "There's plenty of room," Ferguson said after a speech to the National Economists Club and the Society of Government Economists in Washington. "We will continue to be vigilant to ensure that the economy does not tip into recession." 
   TD Ferguson said that it was "not an unreasonable hypothesis" that the lags between interest rate moves and their impact on the economy have become shorter. 

 "There is some reason to think that in fact the length of time for transmission of monetary policy to the economy has shortened somewhat," Ferguson said. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   ANDocument lba0000020010713dx4j01qnl  



 HD Buba's Zeitler says ECB must look at eurozone data.    WC163 words   PD19 April 2001   ET11:45   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 Reuters Limited
   LP FRANKFURT April 19 (Reuters) - Bundesbank council member Franz-Christoph Zeitler said on Thursday that the European Central Bank must look at euro zone data just as the Federal Reserve looks at U.S. data in making interest rate decisions. 

 "The Fed makes its interest rate decisions based on American data, the ECB reaches its interest rate decisions based on European data, particularly monetary developments and inflation prospects," Zeitler told Reuters. 
   TD Zeitler also said that attempts to pile pressure on the ECB would not help the euro zone economy. 

 The ECB is seen under increased pressure to cut its benchmark interest rate from the current 4.75 percent level, following a surprise move by the Federal Reserve on Wednesday which cut the its benchmark rate by a half a point to 4.50 percent. 

 Zeitler, who is president of the state central bank of Bavaria, does not have a say in ECB decision making. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | e52 : Euro Zone/Currency | ecat : Economic News | eec : European Union | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations   REeurz : Europe | gfr : Germany | namz : North America | usa : United States | weurz : Western Europe   ANDocument lba0000020010713dx4j01qke  



 HD Spain's Montoro urges ECB not to cut rates-report.    WC271 words   PD19 April 2001   ET17:20   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 Reuters Limited
   LP MADRID, April 19 (Reuters) - Spanish Finance Minister Cristobal Montoro on Thursday urged the European Central Bank not to match Wednesday's interest rate cut by the U.S. Federal Reserve, news agency Europa Press said. 

 Montoro said Europe was at a different stage of the economic cycle to the United States and "we do not have to see an automatic transfer" of the U.S. rate cut to the euro zone, Europa Press said. 
   TD The Federal Reserve on Wednesday surprised markets by trimming its benchmark rate by 50 basis points to 4.50 percent, below the ECB's main lending rate of 4.75 percent. 

 Spain's economy has grown at about four percent a year for the last four years - although it is expected to slow in 2001 - helped by historically low interest rates in the run up to creation of the euro zone in January 1999 and afterwards. 

 Spanish interest rates were at 10 percent as recently as 1993. 

 But Spain's inflation rate is also one of the highest in the euro zone. In March consumer price inflation was 4.0 percent year-on-year in European Union harmonised terms 

 Spanish officials have said the ECB's low interest rates in 1999 aimed to help Germany and other big euro zone members snap out of sluggish growth at the expense of more inflation for smaller, fast-growing economies like Spain. 

 Europa Press quoted Montoro as saying the U.S. rate cut was positive for the U.S. economy, which was in the interests of governments around the world. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REeurz : Europe | gfr : Germany | medz : Mediterranean | namz : North America | spain : Spain | usa : United States | weurz : Western Europe   ANDocument lba0000020010713dx4j01q2f  



 HD Fed rate cut comes too late for companies.    BY By Chelsea Emery    WC883 words   PD19 April 2001   ET23:43   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 Reuters Limited
   LP NEW YORK, April 19 (Reuters) - Too little, too late. That's what some investors moaned on Thursday after a slew of companies said future profits would suffer because of the slumping U.S. economy, despite the Federal Reserve's surprise interest-rate cut on Wednesday. 

 Even the prospect of brighter days coming from lower rates couldn't bolster shares of companies like Ford Motor Co. and Sears, Roebuck & Co. as investors honed in on quarterly profit reports that said market share had slipped or future growth would be stunted. 
   TD "Clearly, we're in a profits recession and earnings continue to be disappointing," said Eric Teal, who helps manage $1.4 billion for Evergreen Institutional Asset Management. "It's typically four to six months before the impact of a rate cut will be felt." 

 Still, some companies, such as International Business Machines Corp. and Coca-Cola Co. brightened some investors' moods after they said they expected to meet earnings targets for 2001. 

 Other companies jumped after they beat profit expecations, including Apple Computer Inc., which said it turned profitable again. 

 The positive news helped bloster U.S. stock-market indexes. The Nasdaq Composite index gained 4.9 percent to 2,182.14. The gain added to yesterday's 8.1 leap after the Fed cut rates by a half point to bolster the sagging economy. 

 The Dow Jones industrial average added 0.7 percent to 10,693.71 and the Standard & Poor's 500 index rose 1.3 percent to 1,253.69. 

 Investors "are believing that the turnaround in tech may not be so far away when you have an Apple and an IBM announcing good results," said Uri Landesman, chief investment officer with AFA Management Partners. 

 Still other investors cautioned the gains may not last in the short term, as earnings will continue to slid from the effects of the sagging U.S. economy. These investors point to profit growth that's sunk and unlikely to recover before the end of the year. 

 First-quarter profits are expected to fall by 8.4 percent from the same quarter a year ago, according to Thomson Financial/First Call. For the full year, analysts expect earnings growth to slide by 2 percent. 

 First-quarter results so far haven't done much to assuage fears. Of companies in the S&P 500, 210 have reported earnings so far. Of these, 12 percent have missed already lowered expecations, while 61 percent have beaten the forecasts. 

 About 60 companies in the S&P 500 reported earnings on Thursday, First Call said. This is the second-busiest week for first-quarter profit reports. Only next week will be busier. 

 Sears shares slumped 3.2 percent to $36.59 after the retailer said second-quarter profits would suffer at the hands of the slower U.S. economy. The No. 2 retailer reported earnings of 53 cents per share, in line with analysts' forecasts. 

 At the same time, the company said retail gross margins, retail revenues and reported operating income from credit and financial products all declined from a year ago. 

 Ford shares slipped 1.3 percent to $30.30, although the second-largest automaker reported profits that beat expectations by 11 percent. 

 The company said the slowing economy and its declining U.S. market share dragged on profits, sending earnings dropping to 60 cents per share from 90 cents a year earlier. 

 Some earnings reports bucked the trend though, and the optimism was reflected in share prices. IBM surged 7.5 percent to $114.47 after the world's largest computer maker lived up to Wall Street's hopes, and reaffirmed its long-term growth targets. The company reported earnings of 98 cents a share and and said investors should continue to look for revenue growth in the high single-digits. 

 This is notable in a time when many companies have had to ratchet down the estimates because of fewer sales as fears over a possible recession have risen. 

 Coca-Cola shares gained 1.6 percent to $47.50 after the compnay reported earnings of 35 cents, beating expectations by 6 percent. 

 While the company lowered unit case volume growth targets, the soda maker said it was comfortable with the current range of earnings estimates for the year. Analysts surveyed by First Call expected the company to earn $1.61 this year. 

 Good news out of personal-computer maker Apple also boosted investors' confidence. Shares jumped 2.9 percent to $25.72 after the company returned to profitability in the first quarter and blew past Wall Street expectations on the strength of sales of new products. 

 The company earned 11 cents a share, beating Wall Street consensus estimates of a mere 1 cent. 

 Copier maker Xerox Corp. also delivered a pleasant surprise with a loss of 12 cents a share - less than half of analysts' estimates - as it made progress in cutting costs. In addition, the company said it expected to return to profitability by the second half of 2001. 

 In other earnings news, fast-food giant McDonald's Corp. matched analysts estimates of 16 percent drop in profits, as sales of hamburgers in Europe slumped following outbreaks of animal diseases in the region. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   ANDocument lba0000020010713dx4j01pzj  



 HD REPEAT-Fed's cut shocks Wall St, shows Main St focus.    BY By Andrew Priest    WC898 words   PD19 April 2001   ET06:23   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 Reuters Limited
   LP NEW YORK, April 18 (Reuters) - The Fed's rate cut on Wednesday caught market professionals off guard and showed the central bank is more concerned about shoring up businesses and consumers on Main Street than catering to Wall Street's whims, investors said. 

 The rate cut move, four weeks ahead of the Fed's next scheduled meeting, came just as the Treasury market had effectively ruled out the chances of an intermeeting rate cut, reversing its earlier expectations of such a move. 
   TD "This is about psychology. The Fed is trying to help consumer and business confidence. If the move had been telegraphed then it wouldn't have had any effect. By doing this they say 'We are in charge and we are on top of this,'" said William Dawson, chief investment officer at Federated Investors in Pittsburgh. 

 Investors said the Fed had allowed the markets to believe that an intermeeting move was off the table in order to boost the bang the central bank got for its buck when it cut rates. 

 Recent economic data, including the steepest drop in non-farm payrolls in a decade in March, sluggish retail sales and drooping consumer confidence laid the groundwork for Wednesday's cut. 

 But Wall Street seemed unprepared for a rapid fire move. 

 Futures contracts traded on the federal funds overnight rate, a good gauge of market sentiment, were showing almost no chance of an intermeeting move just before the Fed pulled the trigger. 

 Although the Fed has long talked of its desire to improve the transparency of its decision making, when push came to shove, the need to shore up consumer and business spending was clearly more pressing than the need to give Wall Street a heads up, investors said. 

 "They're giving us vitamins. That's just good policy. But the execution made it better," said Neal Soss, chief economist at Credit Suisse First Boston. "The Fed is exercising leadership rather than followership." 

 While the move left many red faces among economists and market analysts who were wagering the Fed would wait until its next scheduled meeting on May 15 to cut rates, it sparked a major rally in U.S. shares, almost a carbon copy of what happened after the Fed's last intermeeting move on Jan. 3. 

 On that day the Nasdaq Composite rose 14 percent, while the Dow Jones industrial average rose 2.8 percent. On Wednesday, the Nasdaq rose 8.1 percent and the Dow rose 3.9 percent. 

 In contrast, on the two occasions this year when the Fed cut rates at its scheduled meetings, stocks fell. 

 FED TEA LEAVES 

 The powerful Fed, under the stewardship of its revered chairman Alan Greenspan, has trod a fine line in recent years between guiding financial markets on its policy thinking while not appearing to be guided by Wall Street goading. 

 Reading the Fed tea leaves, or "Fed watching", has become a Wall Street sport in recent years as markets have sought to divine the outlook for interest rates from hints dropped by Federal Reserve officials in economic speeches. 

 But recent Fed officials' comments were interpreted by markets as lessening the chances of an intermeeting move. 

 St. Louis Fed President William Poole, a voting member of the central bank's policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee, said last week that it made sense for Fed policy-makers to confine interest rate moves to regularly scheduled meetings "most of the time." 

 Dallas Federal Reserve President Robert McTeer, a non-voting member of the central bank's FOMC, said last week that he could neither rule in nor rule out an intermeeting Fed rate cut. 

 "Clearly, they've been giving us fairly upbeat presentations recently. Perhaps we haven't heard from the ones who feel really concerned," said Carol Stone, deputy chief economist at Nomura Securities. 

 The Fed's credibility among investors may have been boosted by its willingness to move when Wall Street's head was turned the other way. 

 "It's not that you cannot listen to the Fed any more, but maybe you will have to take what they say now with a grain of salt," said Henley Smith, chief investment officer at Gabelli Fixed Income Funds. 

 "But it doesn't undermine the Fed's credibility because it shows how independent they are and shows they will act against Wall Street if need be." 

 The Fed has now cut rates by 2 percentage points in four steps since the start of 2001. The 30 percent fall in the federal funds rate from 6.50 percent to 4.5 percent is the steepest decline since the recession of 1981-82, according to investment bank Merrill Lynch. 

 In a statement accompanying its decision, the Fed said the economy was at risk of being "unacceptably weak" due to an uncertain business outlook, poor capital investment, an erosion in expectations for corporate profits and the risk consumers may cut back consumption due to stock market losses. 

 "It's quite simple," said Donald Fine, chief market analyst and managing director at J.P. Morgan Chase. 

 "The Fed left the door open for an intermeeting move after its last meeting. The economy has deteriorated since then, and the Fed now feels that it was time to make sure that the situation didn't get any worse." 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   ANDocument lba0000020010713dx4j01oq8  



 HD UPDATE 2-Fed's Ferguson sees room for more rate moves.    BY By Anna Willard    WC612 words   PD19 April 2001   ET20:46   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 Reuters Limited
   LP (incorporates ECONOMY-FED-FERGUSON-POLICY, adds quotes, details throughout) 

 WASHINGTON, April 19 (Reuters) - Federal Reserve Vice Chairman Roger Ferguson said on Thursday the central bank had ample room to lower interest rates further and said it was an "open question" as to how low rates might need to go to revive the flagging U.S. economy. 
   TD A day after the Fed startled markets by cutting the benchmark federal funds rate a half-percentage point, Ferguson said "there's plenty of room" for more rate moves. 

 "We will continue to be vigilant to ensure that the economyM???ecession," he said after a speech to the National Economists Club and the Society of Government Economists. 

 During his speech, Ferguson expressed uncertainty as to how much more rate-cutting - the Fed has cut rates a total of 2 percentage points in four moves already this year - may lie ahead. 

 "What interest rates will be associated with a return to healthy growth in spending remains an open question," he said. 

 Wednesday's rate reduction brought the key fed funds rate down to 4.5 percent and most economists expect the Fed to lower it further at its next policy-setting meeting on May 15 as it tries to steer the U.S. economy clear of recession. 

 OUTLOOK UNCERTAIN 

 Ferguson said there was more than the usual amount of uncertainty about the U.S. economic outlook at the moment and added: "I think it is too early to have a strong conviction that the economy is reaching the end of this period of quite slow growth." 

 He said that it was "not an unreasonable hypothesis" that the lags between interest rate moves and their impact on the economy have become shorter, holding out hope the U.S. economy could pick up steam quicker than in years past. 

 Still, he said that a buildup of unsold high-tech goods will take "some time" to sell off, although businesses are moving quickly to make production adjustments. 

 Echoing the statement the Fed issued on Wednesday to explain???"Profit expectations have been revised down, and reports that businesses have been postponing capital improvements are widespread," Ferguson said. 

 He added that he believes recent data indicate that the economy is still experiencing positive, although very slow, growth. Some economists had become concerned the economy may have contracted in the first quarter of this year. 

 In the fourth quarter of 2000, the latest quarter for which data are available, the economy expanded at an anemic 1 percent pace versus 8.3 percent in the last three months of 1999. 

 The U.S. central bank indicated in its post-rate cut statement that it still sees the risks to the economy tilted toward weakness. But Ferguson said generally when the FOMC uses this language, it does not "just mean recession." 

 "I believe the committee would be justified in recognizing risks weighted toward economic weakness i??? SURPRISE 

 In his speech, which focused primarily on "transparency" in monetary policymaking, the Fed vice chairman said that while transparency enhances policy effectiveness, this does not mean a central bank will never startle the market. 

 "At times?zz: economic or financial conditions are changing particularly rapidly. This might be associated with financial or economic crisis...but it need not be," he added. 

 On the occasion of its latest rate reduction, the Fed was facing an unusually long gap between FOMC meetings, Ferguson noted. The last policymakers' meeting was on March 20. 

 The Fed governor also touched briefly on the economic situation in Japan, saying that the policymakers in that country face some "unique policy challenges." 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States | usdc : Washington DC   ANDocument lba0000020010712dx4j03kfs  



 HD Fed cut favourable for Indian economy - c.bank chief.    WC149 words   PD19 April 2001   ET10:40   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 Reuters Limited
   LP BOMBAY, April 19 (Reuters) - The overnight cut by the U.S. Federal Reserve was a "favourable development" for the Indian economy, the head of the central bank head said on Thursday, after presenting a monetary policy which left rates unchanged. 

 "This is a favourable development from our point of view," Reserve Bank of India (RBI) Governor Bimal Jalan told reporters when asked whether a cut in US rates is beneficial for the Indian economy. 
   TD "A benign interest rate environment abroad is better for us," he said. 

 In a surprise move, the Federal Reserve on Wednesday cut rates by a half point, sparking speculation among Indian bankers that the RBI could follow suit to maintian interest rate differentials between the two countries. 

 Earlier, unveiling the central bank's monetary policy for 2001/02 (April-March), Jalan said he wanted softer rates. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REasiaz : Asia | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | india : India | indsubz : Indian Subcontinent | namz : North America | sasiaz : Southern Asia | usa : United States   ANDocument lba0000020010712dx4j01tay  



 HD Can Investors Smile Again?    BY By Bruce Bartlett    WC1,092 words   PD19 April 2001   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGA18   LAEnglish   CY (Copyright (c) 2001, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP A few weeks ago, a reporter called and asked me if I thought the current economic slowdown was Bill Clinton's fault. 

 Knowing my opinion of the former president, he clearly expected an affirmative answer. Reluctantly, I replied that as much as I would love to blame anything bad that happens on Mr. Clinton, I was forced to say that the slowdown is 100% a monetary phenomenon. If anyone is to blame, I said, it is Alan Greenspan. 
   TD There is simply no question that the roots of the slowdown can be dated to June 30, 1999, when the Federal Reserve's Open Market Committee voted to raise the federal funds rate -- the interest rate on overnight bank loans -- to 5% from 4.75%. This was the first of six rounds of monetary tightening, the last of which occurred on May 16, 2000, when the fed funds rate reached 6.5%, its highest level since 1990. 

 At the time, there were a number of analysts saying that the Fed had already tightened too much and that the economy was on a downward trend. The problem, they said, was not inflation but deflation, falling rather than rising prices. The Fed was looking at the wrong indicators in their view -- at low unemployment, instead of declining prices for sensitive commodities, such as gold. The inevitable result was that once these deflationary forces worked their way through the economy, a falloff in economic growth was bound to occur. 

 These forecasters emphasized that Fed policy affects the economy only with a lag, and that the ultimate impact of its actions wouldn't hit for several more months. This was a minority viewpoint. For example, in May, the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia's consensus economic forecast was marked up. Real gross domestic product growth was raised to 3.6% from 3.3% in the third quarter, and to 3.1% from 2.9% in the fourth. Data now show actual growth of just 2.2 % in the third quarter and 1% in the fourth. 

 Shortly after the election, George W. Bush's advisers began to give warning of an imminent economic slowdown due to an over-tight Fed policy, for which they were roundly criticized by the outgoing Clinton administration. But on Jan. 3, the Fed validated the critics when it unexpectedly cut the fed funds rate by 50 basis points, after having voted to keep it at 6.5% just days earlier, on Dec. 19. In its Jan. 3 statement, the Fed supported its action in unusually strong language. "The risks," it said, "are weighted mainly toward conditions that may generate economic weakness in the foreseeable future." 

 That is about as close to predicting a recession as the Fed ever gets. Nevertheless, the Fed chose to ease monetary policy slowly and deliberately. Fed funds were cut again on Jan. 31, March 20, and yesterday, bringing the rate down to a current level of 4.5%, its lowest level since 1994. Yet, apparently, this 200 basis point cut in the Fed's primary policy instrument has done little to improve its own outlook for the future. In its April 18 statement, the Fed repeated precisely the same language about economic risks as it used on Jan. 3. 

 Importantly, the Fed has finally taken notice of the steep falloff in capital investment and sharp reduction in "equity wealth." This last is an oblique reference to the collapse of the stock market in recent months. Between March of last year and February of this year, the total market fell by $3.5 trillion, virtually all of it accounted for by the nosediving Nasdaq, which fell by $3.1 trillion -- 50% of its peak value. 

 Many investors, I am sure, are saying that it's about time the Fed took notice of their plight. After all, the Fed justified its tightening policy to a large extent on concerns about the so-called wealth effect. This says that consumption rises about four cents for every $1 rise in household wealth. Thus the sharp rise of stocks in 1999, which saw the Nasdaq go up by $2.6 trillion, caused the Fed to fear a rise of $160 billion in consumer spending the following year on top of an already high level of consumption. Without a corresponding rise in production, the Fed feared the result would be inflation. 

 The reality turned out to be different from what the Fed expected. Instead of a negative wealth effect that would cause consumer spending to slow, the brunt of the stock market selloff fell on investment. Real personal consumption expenditures rose by a healthy 5.3% last year, the same as in 1999. And so far this year, they have risen at a respectable 4.2% rate. But investment has virtually disintegrated. Real gross private domestic investment, which rose by 23.6% in the second quarter of last year, declined at a 4.1% annual rate in the fourth. Going from plus-23.6% investment to minus-4.1% in the space of three quarters explains almost all the slowdown in GDP growth that we have seen. 

 The irony, of course, is that although falling investment is the principal cause of the economic slowdown -- and not consumer spending -- Congress and the Bush administration appear convinced that it is consumers who need stimulus. Both talk obsessively about the need to put dollars into people's pockets, so that they will go out and spend, giving the economy a boost. It now appears likely that whatever tax cut is enacted this year will contain some sort of tax rebate, despite the failure of the same scheme in 1975. 

 It stands to reason that a deflationary Fed policy would cause investment to fall more than consumption. Low prices actually stimulate consumer spending -- indeed, spending on durable goods by consumers has been unusually strong. But investors are not going to add to productive capacity when they cannot sell at a profit. And although interest rates have fallen, deflation means that the real interest rate remains historically high. 

 The stock market's extremely positive response to yesterday's Fed action suggests that a corner may have been turned. A good indicator will be whether Bill O'Reilly of Fox News, an outspoken Greenspan critic, backs off from his almost daily barrage of criticism, or finds something else to talk about. In this case, silence may well be golden. 

 --- 

 Mr. Bartlett is a senior fellow at the National Center for Policy Analysis in Washington. 
   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1101 : Economic Growth | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nedc : Commentary/Opinion   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument j000000020010711dx4j008qa  



 HDO'Neill casts doubts over Europeans' upbeat mood.   BYBy ANDREW HILL IN NEW YORK, TONY MAJOR IN FRANKFURT, ALAN BEATTIE IN WASHINGTON AND PHILIP COGGAN IN LONDON.    WC622 words   PD19 April 2001   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPPaul O'Neill, the US Treasury Secretary, said on Thursday that he was "mystified" by European leaders' claims that Europe would not be affected much by a US downturn.

Speaking on the eve of a meeting of European Union finance ministers and central bankers in Malmo, Sweden, Mr O'Neill's comments will be interpreted as further pressure on the European Central Bank to follow the surprise interest rate cut by the US Federal Reserve this week.
   TDIn a question-and-answer session following a speech to the Economic Club of New York, Mr O'Neill said: "When some Europeans say to me we're really excited about this year, we're going to grow at 3.4 per cent and we're going to show you how to do it [independently] I'm just mystifed by that because it's so inconsistent with the world as I know it, because I think we're all in this together."

Mr O'Neill's comments follow frequent remarks by European leaders that the European economy would not suffer serious damage from the US downturn.

The ECB's president Wim Duisenberg, speaking to a European parliamentary committee last month, said: "Europe is overwhelmingly dependent on domestic demand, so to a large extent it is isolated, but not entirely."

For the second time this year, on Wednesday the Fed took the unusual step between scheduled meetings of cutting 50 basis points (0.5 percentage point) from its key interest rate. Other G7 central banks, the Bank of England and the Bank of Canada, have joined a general move to loosening monetary policy. Even the Bank of Japan, which raised interest rates last year amid international criticism, has moved back towards zero interest rates.

However, inflation figures published on Thursday for the 12-nation euro-zone showed that prices were still rising faster than the ECB's 2 per cent stability ceiling set in March. The figures reinforced expectations the bank will maintain its hawkish stance on rates at its meeting next Thursday.

The harmonised index of consumer prices was unchanged last month at 2.6 per cent year on year.

Economists said the inflation figures would strengthen the ECB's hand as it fights off calls from business, trade unions and the International Monetary Fund for a cut in interest rates to boost euro-zone and world economic growth.

"It would be embarrassing for the ECB to cut rates just as inflation edges higher as now seems likely," said Lorenzo Codogno, economist at Bank of America. German inflation figures out next week are likely to show a further rise.

In the US, market participants said both investors and policymakers had watched the ECB's continued refusal to cut interest rates with growing irritation.

"The markets have thought for a long time that the ECB was not being realistic about the knock-on effects from the US slowdown," said Sassan Ghahramani at Medley Advisers, the New York investment advice group.

Mr Ghahramani said that US Treasury and Federal Reserve officials, along with the Japanese authorities, were also privately questioning the ECB's reluctance to cut rates. The issue is likely to be high on the agenda when the Group of Seven industrialised countries meets in Washington on April 28.

As financial markets digested the Fed rate cut, the dollar lost some ground against the yen and the euro on Thursday. The 30-year US Treasury bond fell a point by lunchtime in New York as investors switched into shorter-dated issues in anticipation of further US interest rate cuts. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | e52 : Euro Zone/Currency | ecat : Economic News | ecbnk : European Central Bank | eec : European Union | gcat : Political/General News | gdip : International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations   REeecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | gfr : Germany | namz : North America | nordz : Nordic Countries | scandz : Scandinavia | swed : Sweden | uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | weurz : Western Europe   IPCGovernment News | Economic News | Summits &Talks | European Central Bank | European Union | Treasury US | Federal Reserve USA | Sweden | United States of America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument ftcom00020010715dx4j002io  



 HDReductions 'almost without precedent'.   BYBy PERONET DESPEIGNES IN WASHINGTON.    WC565 words   PD19 April 2001   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPThe Federal Reserve's dramatic monetary easing this year is almost without precedent since the central bank began formally using short-term interest rate targets in the late 1980s.

The closest thing to a precedent was in 1991, when the Fed, anxious to jump-start the US economy out of recession, cut its target for the fed funds rate by 275 basis points, from 6.75 per cent to 4 per cent.
   TD"But that reduction was over a period of 12 months, in 10 increments, only two of which were half-point reductions and the rest were quarter-point," said Steve Cecchetti, the former research director of the New York Federal Reserve. None of those cuts were done between meetings.

In just the past four months, the Fed has attempted to reduce short-term interest rates by 2 full points, in four increments - two of which were emergency inter-meeting cuts, all of which amounted to half-point reductions.

Rates were cut by a total of one full point in January, a half-point in March and another half-point on Wednesday.

The 1991 case is the most comparable, Mr Cecchetti said "and it's not even close to what they're doing now, which is something much more rapid than [the Alan Greenspan Fed] has ever done".

The move has utterly turned Mr Greenspan's reputation for gradualist, incremental moves on its head.

Explaining the alacrity of the Fed's easing this year, Mr Greenspan said in testimony to congressional lawmakers in early February, that the rapidity of the economy's slowdown - the most abrupt since the 1981-82 recession, had forced the Fed to adapt.

New technologies and innovations, such as "just-in-time" manufacturing practices, had "quickened the pace" of the economy's reaction to economic imbalances.

And while rapid reductions of the imbalances were welcome in aiding the economy's recovery, the speed of that adjustment threatened to hammer consumer confidence and spending in the short term - and so the Fed "has seen the need to respond more aggressively than had been our wont in earlier decades".

"Economic policy-making could not, and should not, remain unaltered in the face of major changes in the speed of economic processes," he said. "Fortunately, the very advances in technology that have quickened economic adjustments have also enhanced our capacity for real-time surveillance."

The Fed's quick easing comes against the backdrop of rising pressure from the Fed to ease from economists and ordinary Americans, as the stock market has struggled and the economy has stumbled this year.

The National Association of Business Economics (Nabe), a prominent group of US economists usually supportive of the Federal Reserve, recently attacked the central bank's management of the nation's money supply as too restrictive.

Some 34 per cent of the group's 267-member policy panel labelled it "too tight", up sharply from 9 per cent in August.

The number describing it as "just right" dropped from 76 per cent to 56 per cent. The early phase of the 1995-96 monetary tightening was the last time the Fed received such poor Nabe ratings.

Last month, amid a sharp plunge in stock prices, CNBC, the business news channel, reported that it had received a tide of e-mail from viewers demanding Mr Greenspan's resignation. 
   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPCEconomic News | Interest Rates | Economic Indicators | Federal Reserve USA | United States of America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument ftcom00020010715dx4j00297  



 HDFed decision unlikely to influence ECB's stance.   BYBy CHRISTOPHER ADAMS and TONY MAJOR.    WC880 words   PD19 April 2001   SNFinancial Times   SCFTFT   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPThe European Central Bank is unlikely to be in any hurry to respond to the Federal Reserve's half-point cut in key interest rates. Indeed, just hours before the Fed's announcement, the ECB was again defending the decision last week not to reduce rates.

Ernst Welteke, Bundesbank president and ECB council member, said the central bank had kept rates unchanged at its meeting on April 11 because euro-zone price risks persisted.
   TDHe also insisted that euro-zone economic growth would remain above 2 per cent despite the global slowdown.

His remarks came just 24 hours after fellow council member Jean-Claude Trichet, governor of the Bank of France, rejected accusations that the bank had been excessively cautious in its reaction to signs of slowing euro-zone growth.

Since the Fed's first surprise rate cut in January, the ECB has come under increasing pressure from business, trade unions and the International Monetary Fund to lower interest rates to boost both euro-zone and world economic growth.

But it has steadfastly refused to fall into line with other central banks.

The ECB has kept its main rate unchanged at 4.75 per cent since last October despite evidence that euro-zone inflation risks are receding and economic growth is set to be lower than forecast last year.

Last week Wim Duisenberg, ECB president, underlined the bank's commitment to bringing down inflation and insisted that, while euro-zone growth may fall short of last year's 3.4 per cent, it remained "solid".

That message is likely to be reiterated again tomorrow with the publication of the ECB's monthly bulletin, although it was drafted well before yesterday's cut by the Fed.

Economists said yesterday they saw little chance of a rapid response from the ECB. "The ECB insists the euro-zone economy is well insulated from the US economy's troubles," said Mark Cliffe, economist at ING Barings. "I don't see them moving quickly.

"To the extent the Fed cut addresses US economic woes the ECB might even argue that the case for a euro-zone cut has been weakened," he added. "A lot depends on how the currency markets react."

The euro, after dipping briefly on the Fed announcement, pushed sharply higher in early New York trading, rising almost a cent and a half to 88.65 cents.

Economists believe the hawkish tone of last week's ECB press conference precludes a rate cut in the near term.

The central bank has its next meeting on April 26 but is not holding a press conference afterwards. Any cut then would come as a big surprise, say analysts. Most economists believe it could be June or later before the ECB moves to reduce interest rates.

But the bank is likely to face renewed pressure for a cut amid growing fears that the bank's perceived inertia on rates might pose risks for euro-zone growth.

"The longer the ECB waits now, the more it may have to cut later," said Morgan Stanley Dean Witter in a research note.

Yesterday Horst Kohler, the IMF's managing director, repeated the Fund's message that a rate cut would help the European economy.

"In the current critical phase of the European and world economies, lower interest rates in Europe would certainly help, without endangering the ECB's stability course," said Mr Kohler.

Hans-Werner Sinn, the head of Germany's Ifo economic institute, warned that slowing growth in Europe could cause consumer prices in Germany to fall too fast and lead to deflation. He said it would help Germany if the ECB were to cut interest rates.

The Fed's move boosted chances of another cut in interest rates in the UK, which is not a member of the 12-nation euro-zone.

"A lot will depend on how the Bank of England's monetary policy committee interprets this," said Danny Gabay, an economist at J P Morgan in London.

"If you think that the Fed's action signals mounting concern about where the US economy is going, that has to lead to mounting concern about the knock-on effects for Britain."

Not only had the odds shortened on a quarter-point cut next month to 5.25 per cent, the chances of a deeper reduction in coming months had increased. "The Fed was a complete surprise. Markets were moving away from this."

In London, interest rate futures were pricing in a repo rate of 5 per cent by late summer.

For Japan, the Fed's decision is not expected to have a significant effect on monetary policy and had little impact on the yen, which ended European trading at 122.4 to the dollar.

The Bank of Japan's interest rates are already so low that there is only minimal scope to reduce them further. The official discount rate is 0.25 per cent and the overnight call rate is just 0.15 per cent.

Further monetary easing in Japan is more likely to come from increased purchases of Japanese government bonds and possibly a continuing decline in the value of the yen. Additional reporting by Ed Crooks in London Observer, Page 19. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | ecbnk : European Central Bank | eec : European Union | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPCEconomic'sp'News | Interest'sp'Rates | Economic'sp'Indicators | European'sp'Central'sp'Bank | Bundesbank | Bank'sp'of'sp'France | Federal'sp'Reserve'sp'USA | United'sp'States'sp'of'sp'America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument ftft000020010715dx4j00egp  



 HD Fed's Ferguson - Too Soon to be Sure Econ Near End of Slowdown.    WC966 words   PD19 April 2001   ET19:34   SNMarket News International   SCMARNEW   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001. Market News International, Inc.
   LP - Interest Rate Needed for Healthy Growth Remains 'An Open Question' - Fed 'Especially Concerned' about U.S. Capital Investment Outlook - 'More Than Usual Amount of Uncertainty' about the Economy 

 By Steven K. Beckner 
   TD Market News International - Federal Reserve Board Vice Chairman Roger Ferguson reemphasized the downside risks facing the economy Thursday, a day after the Fed surprised financial markets by cutting interest rates, nearly a month before its next Federal Open Market Committee meeting. 

 Ferguson capped a speech on central bank transparency by explaining why he and his FOMC colleagues cut the federal funds rate 50 basis points Wednesday for the fourth time this year, and he gave no indication that the Fed is finished cutting rates. 

 The level of rates needed to ensure a return to "healthy growth" is an "open question," and it is "too early" to be sure the economy is "reaching the end of this period of quite slow growth," Ferguson said in remarks prepared for a joint luncheon of the National Economists Club and the Society of Government Economists in Washington. 

 While citing sources of support for consumer and business spending, including lower rates, Ferguson reiterated the Fed's strong concern about the outlook for capital investment. And although stocks have been rallying strongly, especially in the wake of the rate cut, he expressed concern that past losses of stock wealth might hinder consumer spending. 

 Explaining why the Fed cut rates on an intermeeting basis for the second time this year instead of waiting until May 15, Ferguson said that the Fed was "facing an unusually long intermeeting period" (the previous FOMC meeting having been March 20). What's more, although there is a "presumption" against intermeeting moves, he said there are times when "surprise" actions are justified. 

 Enunciating Fed policy thinking at a critical moment as Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan's second-in-command, Ferguson said, "there is more than the usual amount of uncertainty at this juncture about the economic future." 

 "Clearly, many businesses were surprised by the extent of the slowdown in sales late last year, and inventories became uncomfortably high in some sectors," Ferguson continued. "There also is talk of an overhang of high-tech capital, although quantifying the magnitude of that overhang is very difficult." 

 The vice chairman said, "some producers of high-tech equipment may have misjudged the short-term demand for such equipment, perhaps, in part, because they assumed that the strength in investment experienced during 1999 and the early part of 2000 would continue. Moreover, a number of high-tech companies have failed over the past year, reducing the demand for new investment - both directly through the absence of their own spending and indirectly by increasing the supply of nearly new equipment on the second-hand market." 

 Ferguson said, "these imbalances will take some time to be corrected." 

 On a more positive note, Ferguson said, "businesses are moving quickly to adjust levels of production. And final demand should be supported by the lower interest rates put in place by the financial markets and the Federal Reserve." 

 He added that, "despite the decline in stock prices, I believe that the underlying technical advances that have been so important to macroeconomic developments over the last five years will continue and will provide support over time for business and consumer spending." 

 "But," Ferguson went on in a tone of greater concern, "what interest rates will be associated with a return to healthy growth in spending remains an open question. Incoming data have remained mixed, but on balance suggest that the economy has been expanding very slowly." 

 "As our announcement yesterday noted, we are especially concerned about the outlook for capital investments," Ferguson continued. "Profit expectations have been revised down, and reports that businesses have been postponing capital improvements are widespread. Moreover, the downward revisions to earnings expectations have hit the stock market hard since last fall, and declines in equity wealth could begin to show through more forcefully to consumption spending." 

 "All in all, I think it is too early to have a strong conviction that the economy is reaching the end of this period of quite slow growth," Ferguson added. "As the FOMC noted yesterday, the risks remain toward economic weakness." 

 Clarifying what the FOMC means by a risk of "economic weakness," Ferguson said it need not mean recession. "I believe the Committee would be justified in recognizing risks weighted toward economic weakness if it saw prospects for subpar growth - that is growth below the rate of increase in the economy's potential." 

 Ferguson said the Fed - or any central bank - should strive to conduct monetary policy with "regularity and predictability," because "when a central bank is reasonably predictable in its policy timing, its decisions are likely to raise fewer questions and are therefore relatively easy for the public to comprehend." But Ferguson said there are exceptions to this general rule. 

 "This, of course, is not to say that a central bank will never surprise the market," he said. "The most important task of a central bank is to get monetary policy right." 

 "At times, getting policy right will involve taking action unexpected by the market - for example, in its timing or magnitude," Ferguson continued. "This situation is most likely to arise when economic or financial conditions are changing particularly rapidly." 

 "The presumption against taking a surprise move, in timing or magnitude, should be strong, but it is a rebuttable presumption," he went on. "The challenge is to weigh the good that comes from taking a move that a rapidly evolving situation appears to call for against the cost of a diminished sense of regularity in the policy process, which should be the norm in supporting transparency." 

 [TOPICS: MNSFED,MMUFE$,MAUDS$,M$U 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   ANDocument marnew0020010713dx4j00fq5  



 HD ANALYSIS-Fed's cut shocks Wall St, shows Main St focus.    BY By Andrew Priest    WC898 words   PD18 April 2001   ET23:29   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 Reuters Limited
   LP NEW YORK, April 18 (Reuters) - The Fed's rate cut on Wednesday caught market professionals off guard and showed the central bank is more concerned about shoring up businesses and consumers on Main Street than catering to Wall Street's whims, investors said. 

 The rate cut move, four weeks ahead of the Fed's next scheduled meeting, came just as the Treasury market had effectively ruled out the chances of an intermeeting rate cut, reversing its earlier expectations of such a move. 
   TD "This is about psychology. The Fed is trying to help consumer and business confidence. If the move had been telegraphed then it wouldn't have had any effect. By doing this they say 'We are in charge and we are on top of this,'" said William Dawson, chief investment officer at Federated Investors in Pittsburgh. 

 Investors said the Fed had allowed the markets to believe that an intermeeting move was off the table in order to boost the bang the central bank got for its buck when it cut rates. 

 Recent economic data, including the steepest drop in non-farm payrolls in a decade in March, sluggish retail sales and drooping consumer confidence laid the groundwork for Wednesday's cut. 

 But Wall Street seemed unprepared for a rapid fire move. 

 Futures contracts traded on the federal funds overnight rate, a good gauge of market sentiment, were showing almost no chance of an intermeeting move just before the Fed pulled the trigger. 

 Although the Fed has long talked of its desire to improve the transparency of its decision making, when push came to shove, the need to shore up consumer and business spending was clearly more pressing than the need to give Wall Street a heads up, investors said. 

 "They're giving us vitamins. That's just good policy. But the execution made it better," said Neal Soss, chief economist at Credit Suisse First Boston. "The Fed is exercising leadership rather than followership." 

 While the move left many red faces among economists and market analysts who were wagering the Fed would wait until its next scheduled meeting on May 15 to cut rates, it sparked a major rally in U.S. shares, almost a carbon copy of what happened after the Fed's last intermeeting move on Jan. 3. 

 On that day the Nasdaq Composite rose 14 percent, while the Dow Jones industrial average rose 2.8 percent. On Wednesday, the Nasdaq rose 8.1 percent and the Dow rose 3.9 percent. 

 In contrast, on the two occasions this year when the Fed cut rates at its scheduled meetings, stocks fell. 

 FED TEA LEAVES 

 The powerful Fed, under the stewardship of its revered chairman Alan Greenspan, has trod a fine line in recent years between guiding financial markets on its policy thinking while not appearing to be guided by Wall Street goading. 

 Reading the Fed tea leaves, or "Fed watching", has become a Wall Street sport in recent years as markets have sought to divine the outlook for interest rates from hints dropped by Federal Reserve officials in economic speeches. 

 But recent Fed officials' comments were interpreted by markets as lessening the chances of an intermeeting move. 

 St. Louis Fed President William Poole, a voting member of the central bank's policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee, said last week that it made sense for Fed policy-makers to confine interest rate moves to regularly scheduled meetings "most of the time." 

 Dallas Federal Reserve President Robert McTeer, a non-voting member of the central bank's FOMC, said last week that he could neither rule in nor rule out an intermeeting Fed rate cut. 

 "Clearly, they've been giving us fairly upbeat presentations recently. Perhaps we haven't heard from the ones who feel really concerned," said Carol Stone, deputy chief economist at Nomura Securities. 

 The Fed's credibility among investors may have been boosted by its willingness to move when Wall Street's head was turned the other way. 

 "It's not that you cannot listen to the Fed any more, but maybe you will have to take what they say now with a grain of salt," said Henley Smith, chief investment officer at Gabelli Fixed Income Funds. 

 "But it doesn't undermine the Fed's credibility because it shows how independent they are and shows they will act against Wall Street if need be." 

 The Fed has now cut rates by 2 percentage points in four steps since the start of 2001. The 30 percent fall in the federal funds rate from 6.50 percent to 4.5 percent is the steepest decline since the recession of 1981-82, according to investment bank Merrill Lynch. 

 In a statement accompanying its decision, the Fed said the economy was at risk of being "unacceptably weak" due to an uncertain business outlook, poor capital investment, an erosion in expectations for corporate profits and the risk consumers may cut back consumption due to stock market losses. 

 "It's quite simple," said Donald Fine, chief market analyst and managing director at J.P. Morgan Chase. 

 "The Fed left the door open for an intermeeting move after its last meeting. The economy has deteriorated since then, and the Fed now feels that it was time to make sure that the situation didn't get any worse." 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | nanl : Analysis | ncat : Content Types   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   ANDocument lba0000020010713dx4i01w8x  



 HD UPDATE 3-U.K. rate cut hopes get double boost.    BY By Ashley Seager and Paul Hughes    WC802 words   PD18 April 2001   ET18:31   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 Reuters Limited
   LP LONDON, April 18 (Reuters) - A surprise U.S. interest rate cut and news that some Bank of England officials voted to slash British rates by 50 basis points at a recent meeting boosted hopes on Wednesday of a further BoE cut in May. 

 The U.S. Federal Reserve cut borrowing costs by another half point to just 4.5 percent, two whole points down since the start of the year. It made the cut between regular meetings and cautioned there were still risks of economic weakness. 
   TD And minutes of the BoE Monetary Policy Committee's April 4-5 meeting showed that six members voted to cut rates by a quarter point to 5.5 percent, and the other three favoured a half-point cut. 

 Traditional "doves" DeAnne Julius and Sushil Wadhwani were joined by Ian Plenderleith in arguing for rates at 5.25 percent. 

 All nine MPC members agreed the British economy now faced only downside risks with the only disagreement being about the degree. Even some of the majority favouring a quarter point move said they would not need to hear much more negative news to persuade them another cut was needed. 

 "This certainly increases the chance of a further rate cut," said Jeremy Hawkins, economist at Bank of America in London. "In fact, with the Fed now cutting rates again, it is probably enough to tilt the balance towards a cut next month." 

 A June move was unlikely because of expectations that Prime Minister Tony Blair will call a general election on June 7 and the MPC would not want allegations it was intervening in the political arena. 

 Paul Mortimer-Lee at BNP Paribas said: "Reading between the lines it is clear they (MPC) wanted to cut by 50 basis points and will do it in two steps of 25 points each. There's a good chance they will cut at their next meeting." 

 The MPC said in a statement accompanying its April 5 decision that there were downside risks to the economy from the slowdown in the global economy, falling share prices and the foot and mouth disease outbreak which has ravaged Britain's livestock and tourism industries. 

 Crucially, it also said it would "continue to monitor the downside risks carefully", a statement which led some economists to wonder if the MPC had now adopted an "easing bias" in the manner of the U.S. Federal Reserve. 

 The MPC cut rates by a quarter point in February and April's move brought the repo rate down to 5.5 percent, still the highest in any Group of Seven leading industrial country. 

 GLOOMY GLOBAL OUTLOOK WORRIES RATE SETTERS 

 The minutes revealed all MPC members agreed that the prospects for the world economy were now weaker than at its previous monthly meeting. 

 The majority view was that while there were downside risks, it was important not to overreact because final domestic demand growth, the housing market, business investment and government consumption remained strong. 

 "Against this background, a greater than expected cut in interest rates at a time of fragile confidence could even prove to be counterproductive by implying that the prospect for the UK economy was seen to be worse than it was," they said. 

 But, they said, "some...felt it might not require much additional downside news to justify a further cut in rates". 

 The doves pointed to continuing weak inflation, the risk of a deterioration in confidence as well as the fact that real interest rates were still above their neutral level. 

 "A 50 basis point reduction was not large either in the UK context or by comparison with movements elsewhere and, if properly explained, might help bolster confidence rather than dent it." 

 They felt a bigger move was needed to help sustain domestic confidence and return inflation to its target. "It was possible that further reductions would be needed in future months, even in the absence of further downside news," they added. 

 The MPC has to hit a government-set target for underlying inflation, or RPIX, of 2.5 percent. RPIX is currently at just 1.9 percent and has been below target for nearly two years. 

 Financial markets showed little reaction to the news on Wednesday morning as they had to some extent been primed by the statement accompanying the April 5 rate cut. But the Fed move sent the FTSE surging to close at a six-week high of 5,890, up 129.1 points on the day. 

 Gilts and interest rate futures closed off earlier lows which had been a result of stronger stocks. The pound was little moved against the dollar or euro, trading late in the European day at around $1.425 and 61.8 pence respectively. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REeurz : Europe | namz : North America | uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | weurz : Western Europe   ANDocument lba0000020010713dx4i01w58  



 HD UPDATE 1-Rate cut unlikely to budge brokerage plans.    BY By Brian Kelleher    WC675 words   PD18 April 2001   ET21:54   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 Reuters Limited
   LP NEW YORK, April 18 (Reuters) - A surprise interest rate cut on Wednesday energized stock markets, but decision-makers at top brokerages say they need to see a dramatic upturn in the U.S. economy before revising their conservative outlooks. 

 "We wouldn't change our planning on a rate cut or two," Thomas Patrick, chief financial officer of top full-service brokerage Merrill Lynch & Co. Inc. , told Reuters in an interview. 
   TD The Federal Reserve early Wednesday cut a key short-term interest rate by half a percentage point, to 4.5 percent, for the fourth time this year. The powerful central bank is trying to stimulate a sluggish U.S. economy. 

 Stock prices jumped on the news, with the Nasdaq Composite Index gaining 10 percent to 2,119.29 and the Dow Jones industrial average climbing to 10,651.68, a 4 percent rise. 

 Merrill, like most of its peers, is cutting costs as weak corporate earnings and the economic slowdown have hit its securities businesses. Executives are waiting for a solid stock market and economic rebound - which many don't expect until the end of the year - before getting too optimistic. 

 "We'd have to see the results of the rate cut, where you actually saw some translation into the real economy," said Patrick. 

 "If we saw the economy firming late in the year, you would think about the third quarter you'd see a little better stock market," he said. 

 Charles Schwab Corp. , the No. 1 discount and online brokerage that is in a race with rival Merrill to gather new client money, is betting markets won't see a significant turnaround until the later months of 2001. 

 "That's our current planning scenario," CFO Christopher Dodds said on Tuesday, a day before the latest interest rate cut. 

 SECURITIES FIRMS CUT JOBS 

 With markets in a prolonged downturn since last spring, securities companies are cutting back after a decade of bulking up during the stock market's bull run. The number of employees at New York Stock Exchange member firms rose 74 percent to 365,381 workers from 1990 to 2000. 

 San Francisco-based Schwab, which has $806 billion in total customer assets, is undergoing a large restructuring that includes cutting up to 13 percent of its staff. 

 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. is at laying off some employees who scored in the bottom 5 percent of performance reviews, and Bear Stearns Cos. Inc. earlier this year cut more than 3 percent of its staff. 

 Merrill, which has about 16,000 U.S. brokers and total client assets of $1.6 trillion, reduced its work force by 800 brokers worldwide in the first quarter. The reduction was because of slower hiring, the sale of some offices and attrition, meaning the firm didn't replace people who left. 

 "This market is not conducive to recruiting or keeping people at the margin," Patrick told investors in a Webcast on Wednesday morning. Merrill is not targeting a specific number of staff cuts but assessing various businesses, he added. 

 INDIVIDUAL INVESTOR STILL ABSENT 

 Both Merrill and Schwab saw their first-quarter earnings drop as their brokerage customers traded less as market gauges like the tech-heavy Nasdaq hit the skids in the beginning of the year. 

 The Nasdaq dropped nearly 26 percent in the first quarter, chasing investors away from the stock market. Merrill's quarterly profits fell 21 percent and on Tuesday Schwab said its earnings plummeted 63 percent. 

 "The individual investor isn't coming back for a while," Merrill's Patrick said. 

 Brokerage commission revenue at Merrill dropped 30 percent from last year's first quarter. Schwab's commission and trading revenues fell 51 percent in the quarter. 

 Shares of both companies climbed dramatically after the Fed news. Merrill shares were up $5.42, or 9 percent, at $66.02 in afternoon trading on the New York Stock Exchange. Shares of Schwab were up $3.07 at $21.20, a gain of 17 percent. 
   INi831 : Financial Investments | iinv : Investing/Securities   NSc31 : Marketing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   ANDocument lba0000020010713dx4i01w4q  



 HD Retail stocks take off after surprise rate cut.    WC456 words   PD18 April 2001   ET21:36   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 Reuters Limited
   LP NEW YORK, April 18 (Reuters) - Shares of many types of retailers - from discounter Kohl's Corp. to consumer electronics seller Best Buy Co. Inc. - rocketed on Thursday, boosted by hopes the Federal Reserve's surprise interest rate cut would spur consumer spending. 

 The Standard & Poor's retail index rose 6 percent and was up 52.62 at 880.77. Earlier, the index climbed to the highest level since February 2, a few days after the Federal Reserve also cut interest rates on January 31. 
   TD Retail stocks typically climb after interest rate cuts on the idea that lower mortgage and credit card interest rates will put more spending money in consumer's pockets. 

 Since the last rate cut, the index has drifted lower as many retailers reported weak monthly sales data and warned of first-quarter profit shortfalls as results were hurt by cold spring weather in March and the slowing U.S. economy. 

 Trends have improved somewhat in April, analysts said. 

 "The retailers have been doing better in April with the weather improving and the interest rate cuts will help the consumer as well," Steve Paspal, vice president and senior research analyst at Sovereign Asset Management, a unit of John Hancock Funds. 

 "A 50-point cut is pretty good and retail should be one of the sectors that responds more strongly than others," he said. 

 Earlier on Thursday, the Fed cut key short-term interest rates by a half-percentage point. The move came ahead of its next policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee meeting, which is scheduled for May 15. 

 Consumer electronics stocks posted some of the largest gains because products like DVD players and digital cameras are typically purchased when shoppers have more disposable income. 

 Shares of Best Buy were up nearly 17 percent, climbing $8.02 to $55.52, while rival Circuit City Stores' shares were up $1.50 at $13.51 in afternoon trade on the New York Stock Exchange. 

 Discounters like Kohl's and Wal-Mart Stores Inc. , the world's largest retailer, also benefited from the rate cut. Kohl's shares rose 8 percent and were up $4.80 at $60.15, while Wal-Mart's stock was up $3.46 at $52.70. 

 The promise of lower mortgage rates also gave shares of home improvement retailers a boost. 

 "Lower rates mean increasing refinance activity," said Daniel Binder of Buckingham Research Group. He added that historically, greater refinancing tends to spur remodeling projects, which aids home-improvement chains. 

 Shares of Home Depot Inc. rose 9 percent and were up $3.87 at $45.78, while rival Lowe's Cos. Inc. shares rose $6.30 to 59.03, up nearly 12 percent. 
   INi64 : Retail/Wholesale   NSc15 : Performance | c152 : Earnings Projections | c1522 : Share Price Movement/Disruptions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   ANDocument lba0000020010713dx4i01w46  



 HD Emerging mkts weigh rate cut against risk of US slowdown.    BY By Hugh Bronstein    WC412 words   PD18 April 2001   ET20:39   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 Reuters Limited
   LP NEW YORK, April 18 (Reuters) - Wednesday's surprise U.S. interest rate cut will soften the risk aversion that has blighted the emerging bond market in recent months, but nagging worry about the U.S. economic slowdown, which triggered the rate reduction, could yet ruin the party, analysts said. 

 Emerging market bonds surged following news that the U.S. Federal Reserve had cut interest rates by 50 basis points. 
   TD "The question remains, 'What is happening to the U.S. domestic economy?'" said Vincent Truglia, co-head of the sovereign risk unit at Moody's Investors Service. 

 "If the economy is fundamentally weaker, that is a bigger negative for emerging markets than the rate cut is a positive," he said. 

 A U.S. recession would reduce demand for exports of commodities and other goods that anchor many emerging economies. 

 FED DELIGHTS 

 For a second time this year, the U.S. central bank delighted financial markets by cutting rates between regularly scheduled meetings of its policy-setting committee. In the statement that followed this relatively rare step, the Fed served notice it was ready to cut rates again if needed, saying risks to the economy remained tilted toward weakness. 

 Lower rates benefit indebted emerging economies by lowering debt service costs. 

 "Overall the threat of a recession in the U.S. is probably more dangerous than the benefits of rate cuts," said Mark Siegel, an emerging market fund manager with D.L. Babson & Co., a member of the MassMutual Financial Group. 

 Others disagreed. 

 "The interest rate cut is a net positive, even if the U.S. economy is slowing," said Anna Titarchuk, an emerging markets strategist at Deutsche Bank. 

 "Emerging market investors look beyond actual changes in the U.S. economy when the Fed acts aggressively. They tend to price in a recovery in the early stages of an easing cycle," she said. 

 Siegel noted that while prices came up in the wake of the rate cut, he had not seen dramatic moves in the bonds of Argentina, a highly indebted country that benefits greatly from lower rates. 

 Argentine FRB bonds were up only a point by early afternoon on Wednesday. 

 "That tells me that some positions have been shifted around a bit and that shorts have been covered, but when it comes to the underlying thesis about risk and return in Argentina, nobody had their opinions changed today," Siegel said. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REarg : Argentina | braz : Brazil | camz : Central America | chil : Chile | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | lamz : Latin America | mex : Mexico | namz : North America | peru : Peru | samz : South America | usa : United States | ven : Venezuela   ANDocument lba0000020010713dx4i01w1t  



 HD ANALYSIS-Fed move raises cost of betting against euro.    BY By Swaha Pattanaik    WC554 words   PD18 April 2001   ET19:26   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 Reuters Limited
   LP LONDON, April 18 (Reuters) - The U.S. Federal Reserve on Wednesday made it cheaper for investors to back the euro than to bet against it. 

 Official U.S. interest rates fell below euro zone ones for the first time since the single currency's launch after the Fed shocked financial markets by delivering its fourth rate cut of the year. 
   TD Its latest half percentage point easing has slashed the target fed funds rate to 4.5 percent, its lowest in more than six and a half years and a quarter point below the European Central Bank's benchmark interest rate. 

 Investors and traders have for some time been focusing on the growth-supportive implications of lower U.S. rates instead of the slimmer returns they get on their dollar deposits. 

 But the crossover in U.S. and euro zone rates was expected to give them pause for thought when deciding whether to back the euro or the dollar in the coming months. 

 "There is no way that the dollar deserves to be getting stronger now and it is inevitable that the euro will start a multiyear rally," said Peter von Maydell, currency strategist at Credit Suisse First Boston in London. 

 "But, just as it took several months for the currency to move the right way when U.S. and German rates last crossed over in 1994, it could be a few months before we see this happening." 

 THE DARK SIDE 

 At first blush, the euro has already done quite well out of the latest Fed easing. 

 The central bank's shock move initially knocked the euro to the year's lows around $0.87 but the currency was soon on the mend and had rebounded almost two percent within as many hours. 

 That was more due to concern about what provoked the Fed to move between policy meetings than because of a rush to take advantage of the quarter point premium the euro now offers over the dollar, analysts said. 

 Still, expectations were becoming entrenched that the rate gap would move further in the single currency's favour in light of the statement which accompanied the Fed's move. 

 The U.S. central bank said the risks were skewed towards economic weakness - effectively serving notice it was ready to cut rates again if needed. 

 "Right now, people are looking at the darker side of the rate cut and worrying about just what the Fed knows," said Nick Parsons, currency strategist at Commerzbank in London. 

 "But the crossover in rates will be an important psychological factor at the margin, particularly as the gap is set to widen." 

 Investors were not inclined to make hasty decisions on Wednesday and said they would wait to see how well the Fed's tonic worked. 

 Still, they are expected to be less and less inclined to give the dollar the benefit of the doubt if the U.S. economy proves unresponsive to the Fed's easing now that interest rates have turned against the U.S. currency. 

 "If the market believes the Fed's policy is not working and that it is not acting as a safety net, then the dollar will be toast," said Adrian Cunningham, head of economics at Abbey National Asset Managers in Glasgow. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | nanl : Analysis | ncat : Content Types   REasiaz : Asia | easiaz : Eastern Asia | eurz : Europe | gfr : Germany | jap : Japan | namz : North America | uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | weurz : Western Europe   ANDocument lba0000020010713dx4i01vu3  



 HD ECB 'wait and see' stance seen pressured by Fed cut.    WC333 words   PD18 April 2001   ET18:00   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 Reuters Limited
   LP FRANKFURT, April 18 (Reuters) - A surprise half point cut by the Federal Reserve on Wednesday has raised the pressure on the ECB to abandon its "wait and see" stance on interest rates but will not yield a change at its meeting next week, analysts said. 

 "I think they will wait until the next meeting with the press conference (on May 10) before moving. The question is when the European Central Bank is going to crack," said Peter Saake at Merrill Lynch. 
   TD Citing the danger of "unacceptable weakness" in the U.S. economy, the Fed took financial markets unawares by trimming its borrowing rate to 4.50 from 5.0 percent, beneath the ECB's own minimum bid rate of 4.75 percent. 

 These were left unchanged on April 11 by the central bank, which has withstood mounting pressure for a cut from European politicians and influential institutions like the IMF and OECD. The ECB maintains the risks to inflation have not disappeared. In contrast the Fed has now cut rates four times since January, wiping out the interest rate differential between the world's two largest economic blocks but not stunting the rampant dollar. 

 In fact, the Fed move on Wednesday initially hurt the euro. It quickly recovered, but analysts warned of mounting market frustration with the ECB for being "behind the curve" on rates and putting euro zone growth at risk. 

 "The Fed is doing all the right things and the ECB looks like it will not ease until inflation is under two percent," said Christel Aranda-Hassel at CSFB in London. 

 The euro was quoted at $0.88122 at 1545 GMT after briefly dipping under $0.870. 

 "(The Fed cut puts) increasing pressure to lower rates but I don't think it changes the domestic agenda. It was obvious from the ECB's press conference last week that it was focusing more on domestic news," said Ken Wattret at BNP Paribas. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | ecbnk : European Central Bank | eec : European Union | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations   REeurz : Europe | gfr : Germany | namz : North America | usa : United States | weurz : Western Europe   ANDocument lba0000020010713dx4i01vow  



 HD ECB, European Commission decline comment on Fed cut.    WC122 words   PD18 April 2001   ET17:32   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 Reuters Limited
   LP FRANKFURT April 18 (Reuters) - The European Central Bank and the European Commission on Wednesday declined comment on the surprise half-point interest rate cut by the United States Federal Reserve. 

 "We don't comment on moves by other central banks," a spokesman for the ECB said in response to a Reuters enquiry. 
   TD A spokesman for the European Commission also declined comment on the move. 

 The Fed action brought the federal funds overnight bank lending rate down to 4.5 percent. 

 The ECB has kept its interest rates steady at 4.75 percent since October 2000, despite signs of an economic slowdown in the euro zone. The bank has argued that some price pressures persist. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | ecbnk : European Central Bank | eec : European Union | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations   REeurz : Europe | gfr : Germany | namz : North America | usa : United States | weurz : Western Europe   ANDocument lba0000020010713dx4i01vnl  



 HD TEXT-FOMC statement on  interest rate  policy.    WC316 words   PD18 April 2001   ET17:22   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 Reuters Limited
   LP WASHINGTON, April 18 (Reuters) - The following is a 

 statement of the Federal Reserve's Federal Open Market Committee 
   TD regarding its inter-meeting decision to cut interest rates: 

 "The Federal Open Market Committee decided today to lower 

 its target for 

 the federal funds rate by 50 basis points to 4-1/2 percent. In 

 a related 

 action, the Board of Governors approved a 50 basis point 

 reduction in the 

 discount rate to 4 percent. 

 The FOMC has reviewed prospects for the economy in light of 

 the 

 information that has become available since its March meeting. 

 significant reduction in excess inventories seems well 

 advanced. 

 Consumption and housing expenditures have held up reasonably 

 well, though 

 activity in these areas has flattened recently. Although 

 measured 

 productivity probably weakened in the first quarter, the 

 impressive 

 underlying rate of increase that developed in recent years 

 appears to be 

 largely intact. 

 Nonetheless, capital investment has continued to soften and 

 the 

 persistent erosion in current and expected profitability, in 

 combination 

 with rising uncertainty about the business outlook, seems 

 poised to 

 dampen capital spending going forward. This potential 

 restraint, together 

 with the possible effects of earlier reductions in equity 

 wealth on 

 consumption and the risk of slower growth abroad, threatens to 

 keep the 

 pace of economic activity unacceptably weak. As a consequence, 

 the 

 Committee agreed that an adjustment in the stance of policy is 

 warranted 

 during this extended intermeeting period. 

 The Committee continues to believe that against the 

 background of its 

 long-run goals of price stability and sustainable economic 

 growth and of 

 the information currently available, the risks are weighted 

 mainly toward 

 conditions that may generate economic weakness in the 

 foreseeable future. 

 In taking the discount rate action, the Federal Reserve

 Board approved 

 requests submitted by the Boards of Directors of the Federal 

 Reserve

 Banks of Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Atlanta, 

 Minneapolis, 

 Dallas, and San Francisco." 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   ANDocument lba0000020010713dx4i01vmv  



 HD WRAPUP 3-Fed cut further isolates ECB 'wait and see' stance.    BY By Alister Bull, European Economics Correspndent    WC818 words   PD18 April 2001   ET20:12   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 Reuters Limited
   LP FRANKFURT, April 18 (Reuters) - A dramatic U.S. interest rate cut on Wednesday raises pressure on the European Central Bank to follow suit, even though analysts reckon it is unlikely to drop a controversial "wait and see" stance as soon as next week's meeting. 

 The Federal Reserve's move followed calls by International Monetary Fund chief Horst Koehler for the ECB to lower interest rates to support the European economy and comes ahead of a meeting next week of finance ministers from the Group of Seven most industrialised nations. "The question is when the European Central Bank is going to crack," said Peter Saake at Merrill Lynch. "I think they will wait until the next meeting with the press conference (on May 10) before moving." 
   TD Citing the danger of "unacceptable weakness" in the U.S. economy as well as highlighting the risk of weakness abroad, the Fed took financial markets unawares by cutting its borrowing rate to 4.50 from 5.0 percent. Key U.S. rates are now below the ECB's equivalent rates for the first time. 

 These were left unchanged on April 11 by the bank, which has withstood mounting pressure for a cut from European politicians in recent weeks, as well as calls on Wednesday from the head of the IMF and Germany's influential Ifo Institute. 

 Bundesbank President Ernst Welteke earlier defended the ECB, reminding markets that price pressures had yet to be banished after they got wrong-footed by the decision to stay on hold. 

 The move surprised the market, which had bet heavily on the cut, and reinforced unflattering comparisons with the Fed. 

 The U.S. authorities have cut rates four times since January, wiping out the interest rate differential between the world's two largest economic blocks but not stunting the rampant dollar, despite concerns for a hard U.S. economic landing. 

 In fact, the Fed move on Wednesday initially hurt the euro. It quickly recovered, but analysts warned of mounting market frustration with the ECB for being "behind the curve" on rates and putting euro zone growth at risk. 

 "The Fed is doing all the right things and the ECB looks like it will not ease until inflation is under two percent," said Christel Aranda-Hassel at CSFB in London. 

 The ECB has a self-imposed policy tolerance ceiling of two percent for consumer inflation, which stood at 2.6 percent in February and is expected to show no change when March data is released on Thursday. 

 EUROZONE GROWTH AT RISK 

 Economists worry that if it will not relax interest rates until this threshold had been crossed, rather than acting once a downward trend in prices is visible, euro zone growth and job creation could suffer badly from cooling global conditions. 

 "This makes the ECB's position increasingly untenable. They are taking an amazingly head-in-the-sand approach to what is going on worldwide," said Simon Key, chief investment officer at Framlington Investment Management. 

 "Europe would justify a cut of at least half a percentage point," added Key, who is a former Bank of England economist. 

 Market concern that the ECB would be prepared to sacrifice growth in order to establish its anti-inflation credibility has sapped the common currency ever since the Fed began seizing the interest rate initiative. 

 But in the Fed's aftermath the currency was finding some modest support and was quoted at $0.88122 at 1545 GMT after briefly dipping under $0.870. 

 The ECB is charged by law with the job of maintaining price stability in the 12-nation euro zone. 

 Last week it stressed that the risks to inflation have not disappeared, despite the worsening outlook for world growth - rhetoric that hardened its stance but may now have painted it into a corner that will tie its hands. 

 "The obvious knee-jerk reaction in the market will be that the Fed is panicking and the ECB will have to respond," said Ken Wattret at BNP Paribas in London. 

 "But having given such a hawkish reading last week it's very difficult for the ECB to deliver a rate cut," he said. 

 Eurolibor interest rate June futures contracts initially dipped by over a quarter point. It quickly trimmed these gains but was still pricing in an ECB cut of 25 basis points by mid-year, dealers said. 

 Officials at the ECB and European Commission declined to comment on the Fed move, but Welteke had earlier said that growth would withstand the chill from the cooling U.S. 

 "The euro zone economy will grow by more than two percent this year despite the economic slowdown," Welteke said in an interview with Focus Money magazine. 

 U.S. economic developments harboured some uncertainties, but "there are at present no signs whatsoever of a global recession", Welteke said. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   ANDocument lba0000020010713dx4i01vlj  



 HD Bold Fed seen as potent U.S. anti-recession force.    BY By Caren Bohan    WC802 words   PD19 April 2001   ET00:25   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 Reuters Limited
   LP WASHINGTON, April 18 (Reuters) - The firepower of four interest-rate cuts by the Federal Reserve - including its surprise move on Wednesday - will go far toward warding off a U.S. recession, analysts said. 

 But even after cuts totaling 2 percentage points this year, many economists said the central bank's campaign against an economic slowdown is not over yet. 
   TD "Clearly, the message is that the Fed has every intention of continuing to cut until there is an economic recovery," said Lou Crandall, an economist with the Wall Street research firm Wrightson Associates. 

 "They are almost certainly going to ease again in May," Crandall added, referring to the Fed's next regularly scheduled meeting on May 15. 

 Twenty-four of the 25 primary dealers of U.S. government securities polled by Reuters on Wednesday forecast that the Fed would cut rates for a fifth time this year at that meeting. 

 Despite an avalanche of gloomy news about weak corporate profits, sagging consumer confidence and a slackening job market, the Fed managed to catch Wall Street off-guard with Wednesday's half-point interest rate cut. 

 The myriad of Fed watchers who parse every utterance from policymakers had concluded that the central bank was sanguine enough about the U.S. economy's health to delay any action until the mid-May meeting. 

 THEY ALL CALLED IT WRONG 

 How did they all get it wrong? 

 For one thing, Fed rate changes outside regularly scheduled meetings, such as Wednesday's move, are extremely rare. The last time the Fed took such a step was on Jan. 3 but the last time before that was October 1998. 

 And Fed officials, who had been out in force talking about the economy in recent weeks, seemed to go to lengths to emphasize that they preferred to move at meetings. 

 "Not only must there be a significant benefit (to change rates between meetings), but the benefit has to be large enough to outweigh the costs of setting a precedent," St. Louis Federal Reserve Bank President William Poole said in a Reuters interview last month. 

 Moreover, Poole and many of his colleagues, particularly the other presidents of the regional Fed banks, have played down the threat of a recession. 

 They have emphasized that factories were beginning to pare down their bloated inventories, which could set the stage for a recovery soon. 

 But as the statement released with Wednesday's rate announcement showed, the Fed is clearly worried that a pullback in business investment could prove to be a big drag on the economy going forward and they want to counter that. 

 "Capital investment has continued to soften and the persistent erosion in current and expected profitability, in combination with rising uncertainty about the business outlook, seems poised to dampen capital spending going forward," the Fed statement said. 

 NO TRIGGER IN DATA 

 In contrast to what analysts might have expected, there was no "smoking gun" in the form an economic report that might have triggered the move. 

 U.S. payrolls fell by a large 86,000 in March but they had risen at decent rates in both January and February. Industrial output has been extremely weak for several months but it had improved in the latest set of statistics. 

 On the other hand, the anecdotal evidence of a flagging economy was piling up. 

 For example, technology bellwether Cisco Systems Inc. issued a profit warning, citing a glut of unsold inventories. 

 Private surveys showed economists starting to up their forecasts for a recession, projecting that the job market would worsen and that declines in the stock market would put a damper on consumer spending. 

 "There are a lot of negatives hanging out there," said Bill Cheney, chief economist at John Hancock Financial Services in Boston. 

 Cheney and other analysts said the Fed may get added mileage out of its latest rate cut because it took nearly everyone by surprise. 

 "The timing has to do with getting the biggest possible impact from the move," he said. 

 Indeed, the action delighted the U.S. stock market, spurring an 8.1 percent surge in the technology-laden Nasdaq Composite Index and 3.9 percent jump in the Dow Jones industrial average. 

 "I think that we will look back on this as a key moment that changed psychology," said James Glassman, economist at J.P. Morgan in New York. "It shows people that the Fed has zeroed in on exactly what it needs to do." 

 Glassman agreed the Fed would continue cutting rates. 

 He said the timing of the next move would depend on the data but projected the federal funds rate, brought to 4.5 percent by the Fed's latest move, would be chopped to 4 percent within the next few months. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nedc : Commentary/Opinion   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   ANDocument lba0000020010713dx4i01nki  



 HD UPDATE 1-Mexico cenbank unmoved by Fed rate cuts.    BY By Richard Jacobsen    WC684 words   PD19 April 2001   ET00:01   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 Reuters Limited
   LP MEXICO CITY, April 18 (Reuters) - Mexico's central bank held fast to its tight monetary policy on Wednesday, signaling it will not soon be swayed from its staunch anti-inflation stand by falling interest rates in the United States. 

 The Mexican money market was awash in rumors Wednesday that Banco de Mexico would ease its monetary policy, a move leading to lower local rates, after the U.S. Federal Reserve surprised world markets with its fourth interest rate cut this year to boost the sluggish U.S. economy. 
   TD The two nations' economies are tightly bound in the North American Free Trade Agreement and Mexico's economy - Latin America's second largest behind Brazil - is in the midst of its own slowdown as demand for its exports has cooled north of the border. 

 But in its daily intervention in the local money market, Banco de Mexico kept its so-called money market "short" unchanged at 400 million pesos a day, and economists said they do not see the central bank easing off anytime soon. 

 "My impression here is that Banco de Mexico still has inflation as its priority," said Miguel Palomino, chief economist for Latin America at Merrill Lynch. 

 The short is Banco de Mexico's main mechanism for holding local interest rates relatively high by keeping liquidity in the money markets lower than the market's estimated needs. The higher rates act against inflation by keeping domestic consumption in check. 

 The Fed cut its federal funds rate to 4.5 percent from 5.0 percent early on Wednesday, further widening the gap between U.S. and Mexican rates. The annualized rate for benchmark 28-day Mexican Cetes, or T-bills now stands at 15.06 percent, which local brokerage Interacciones calculates gives an inflation-adjusted rate of 11.30 percent. 

 Banco de Mexico has been gradually tightening its monetary screws since March 1998 in a effort to drive down inflation, which ended 1998 at 18.6 percent. 

 The central bank is aiming for inflation of 6.5 percent this year and around 3.0 percent in 2003 - in line with U.S. inflation. Inflation last year was 8.96 percent. 

 PESO STRENGTH 

 Adding to speculation of an impending Banco de Mexico easing is the recent strength in the Mexican peso, which local exporters say has hurt business by shrinking their profits from sales abroad. 

 Lured by high real interest rates compared to those offered in the United States, cash has been flowing into Mexican assets, bolstering the once-forlorn peso. Net foreign investment in the money market ended March at $2.246 billion, up 25.74 percent over the end of 2000. 

 The benchmark 48-hour peso contract closed Wednesday at 9.24 pesos to the dollar, 4.2 percent stronger than its level at the beginning of the year. Earlier in the day it surged to 9.145 to the dollar, its strongest level in a year. 

 The Fed's move on Wednesday will likely spur further flows south, economists said. 

 "We're expecting a greater inflow of capital into the country because of the rate differential following the Fed's new rate cut," said Javier Vega, economist at Mexico City's CAPEM center for economic analysis. 

 But the strength of the peso is not seen swaying the central bank to trigger lower local rates. 

 "One has to realize that Banco de Mexico's primary objective is to meet its inflation targets," Vega said. 

 LOWER RATES LATER 

 The Fed action at least reduces the need for further Banco de Mexico tightening, economists said. 

 Any easing in monetary policy and lowering of interest rates, however, will not likely come until Congress passes key tax reform legislation aimed at boosting government revenue and stabilizing the country's fiscal outlook. 

 "We do have expectations that rates will come down later on, but at this point I think (Banco de Mexico) will tend to be conservative until you see better inflation numbers, and until all the uncertainty regarding the fiscal reform is over," Palomino said. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REcamz : Central America | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | lamz : Latin America | mex : Mexico | namz : North America | usa : United States   ANDocument lba0000020010713dx4i01njj  



 HD U.S. homebuilders may gain little from rate cut.    BY By Rachel Cohen    WC672 words   PD19 April 2001   ET00:44   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 Reuters Limited
   LP NEW YORK, April 18 (Reuters) - The U.S. housing market is unlikely to reap much benefit from Wednesday's surprise half a percentage point interest rate cut, as home loan rates had already discounted the latest rate move, analysts said. 

 "We have already seen a decline in mortgage rates," said Michael Carliner, an economist at the National Association of Home Builders. "We are not going to get further cuts in mortgage rates. This is not a dramatic event for the market." 
   TD The Standard & Poor's Homebuilding index of building stocks gained 4.4 percent on Wednesday, in line with the broader S&P 500 , which was up 3.9 percent. 

 Shares of homebuilder KB Home were up 61 cents, or 2.2 percent, to $28.95. Shares of homebuilder Centex Corp. were up $1.34, or 3.5 percent, to $39.26. 

 The Federal Reserve on Wednesday cut its key federal funds overnight bank lending rate by half a percentage point to 4.5 percent to try to spur the slowing U.S. economy. 

 "The textbook response is that homebuilding, auto and consumer durables such as appliances are highly interest rate sensitive," said Eric Jemetz, senior equity analyst at New Amsterdam Partners in New York, which has about $1 billion in stocks under management. "Any sort of decrease should help these industries." 

 However, mortgage rates, which are largely dependent on the 10-year Treasury note, were not as affected by federal funds rate, analysts said. In recent weeks, mortgage rates have gone up slightly, reaching 7.04 percent last week after bottoming at 6.89 percent three weeks ago. 

 Some sectors related to the homebuilding industry such as appliances performed stronger on Wednesday. The S&P Furnishing and Appliance index was up 7.8 percent. 

 The rate cut would bring down the capital costs for home builders and borrowing rates on home equity lines of credit for homeowners, analysts said. 

 But the cut was unlikely to inject a wave of demand into new home buying. 

 Housing demand, though strong by historic standards, has softened in recent months, bogged down by flagging consumer confidence and the spectacular drop in the stock market. Nearly daily announcements of layoffs have also crimped home sales. 

 Publicly traded homebuilders are still reaping the benefits of their increasing market share, said David Jarrett, homebuilding and building materials analyst at Credit Lyonnais, and the lower interest rate may offset the reduction in the wealth effect from the falling stock market. 

 The manufactured home industry will also benefit from the Fed rate cut, said Barbara Allen, an analyst with Arnhold & S. Bleichroeder, because loans for trailer homes are personal property loans that are tied to short-term interest rates. 

 "Manufactured housing has been in a recession for close to two years," Allen said. "We've really wrenched an awful lot of excess out of that system, the stock price is still depressed but there are some signs of improvement." 

 Shares of manufactured home maker Champion Enterprises Inc. were up 18 percent, or 88 cents, to $5.78. Shares of Fleetwood Enterprises Inc. , which makes manufactured housing and recreational vehicles, were up 10.7 percent, or 95 cents, to $9.85 on the New York Stock Exchange. 

 Home financing had been falling since spring last year, analysts said. In fact, mortgage rates have been creeping up over the past several weeks because of a slump in the bond market, pushing up U.S. Treasury yields. 

 The average rate on 30-year fixed mortgages edged up to 7.04 percent last week, up from prior week's 7.01 percent after bottoming at 6.89 percent three weeks ago. The 30-year average rate peaked at 8.64 percent last May, according to mortgage finance giant Freddie Mac. 

 Since January, the U.S. central bank has lowered the federal funds rate four times, for a total cut of two percentage points. (additional reporting by Richard Leong). 
   INi501 : Building Construction | i5010022 : Residential Building Construction | i81501 : Credit Types/Services | i8150103 : Mortgages/Real Estate Credit | ibnk : Banking/Credit | icre : Construction/Real Estate   NSc15 : Performance | c152 : Earnings Projections | c1522 : Share Price Movement/Disruptions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   ANDocument lba0000020010713dx4i01nii  



 HDFed decision unlikely to influence ECB's stance.   BYBy TONY MAJOR IN FRANKFURT AND CHRISTOPHER ADAMS IN LONDON.    WC883 words   PD18 April 2001   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPThe European Central Bank is unlikely to be in any hurry to respond to the Federal Reserve's half-point cut in key interest rates. Indeed, just hours before the Fed's announcement, the ECB was again defending the decision last week not to reduce rates.

Ernst Welteke, Bundesbank president and ECB council member, said the central bank had kept rates unchanged at its meeting on April 11 because euro-zone price risks persisted.
   TDHe also insisted that euro-zone economic growth would remain above 2 per cent despite the global slowdown.

His remarks came just 24 hours after fellow council member Jean-Claude Trichet, governor of the Bank of France, rejected accusations that the bank had been excessively cautious in its reaction to signs of slowing euro-zone growth.

Since the Fed's first surprise rate cut in January, the ECB has come under increasing pressure from business, trade unions and the International Monetary Fund to lower interest rates to boost both euro-zone and world economic growth.

But it has steadfastly refused to fall into line with other central banks.

The ECB has kept its main rate unchanged at 4.75 per cent since last October despite evidence that euro-zone inflation risks are receding and economic growth is set to be lower than forecast last year.

Last week Wim Duisenberg, ECB president, underlined the bank's commitment to bringing down inflation and insisted that, while euro-zone growth may fall short of last year's 3.4 per cent, it remained "solid".

That message is likely to be reiterated again on Friday with the publication of the ECB's monthly bulletin, although it was drafted well before Wednesday's cut by the Fed.

Economists said on Wednesday they saw little chance of a rapid response from the ECB.

"The ECB insists the euro-zone economy is well insulated from the US economy's troubles," said Mark Cliffe, economist at ING Barings. "I don't see them moving quickly.

"To the extent the Fed cut addresses US economic woes the ECB might even argue that the case for a euro-zone cut has been weakened," he added. "A lot depends on how the currency markets react."

The euro, after dipping briefly on the Fed announcement, pushed sharply higher in early New York trading, rising almost a cent and a half to 88.65 cents.

Economists believe the hawkish tone of last week's ECB press conference precludes a rate cut in the near term.

The central bank has its next meeting on April 26 but is not holding a press conference afterwards. Any cut then would come as a big surprise, say analysts. Most economists believe it could be June or later before the ECB moves to reduce interest rates.

But the bank is likely to face renewed pressure for a cut amid growing fears that the bank's perceived inertia on rates might pose risks for euro-zone growth.

"The longer the ECB waits now, the more it may have to cut later," said Morgan Stanley Dean Witter in a research note.

On Wednesday Horst Kohler, the IMF's managing director, repeated the Fund's message that a rate cut would help the European economy.

"In the current critical phase of the European and world economies, lower interest rates in Europe would certainly help, without endangering the ECB's stability course," said Mr Kohler.

Hans-Werner Sinn, the head of Germany's Ifo economic institute, warned that slowing growth in Europe could cause consumer prices in Germany to fall too fast and lead to deflation. He said it would help Germany if the ECB were to cut interest rates.

The Fed's move boosted chances of another cut in interest rates in the UK, which is not a member of the 12-nation euro-zone.

"A lot will depend on how the Bank of England's monetary policy committee interprets this," said Danny Gabay, an economist at JP Morgan in London.

"If you think that the Fed's action signals mounting concern about where the US economy is going, that has to lead to mounting concern about the knock-on effects for Britain."

Not only had the odds shortened on a quarter-point cut next month to 5.25 per cent, the chances of a deeper reduction in coming months had increased. "The Fed was a complete surprise. Markets were moving away from this."

In London, interest rate futures were pricing in a repo rate of 5 per cent by late summer.

For Japan, the Fed's decision is not expected to have a significant effect on monetary policy and had little impact on the yen, which ended European trading at 122.4 to the dollar.

The Bank of Japan's interest rates are already so low that there is only minimal scope to reduce them further. The official discount rate is 0.25 per cent and the overnight call rate is just 0.15 per cent.

Further monetary easing in Japan is more likely to come from increased purchases of Japanese government bonds and possibly a continuing decline in the value of the yen.

Additional reporting by Ed Crooks in London. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | e52 : Euro Zone/Currency | ecat : Economic News | eec : European Union | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPCEconomic News | Interest Rates | Economic Indicators | European Central Bank | Deutsche Bundesbank | Federal Reserve USA   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument ftcom00020010715dx4i0024g  



 HD UPDATE 1-U.S. manufacturing group calls for Fed rate cuts.    BY By Anna Willard    WC426 words   PD17 April 2001   ET18:00   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 Reuters Limited
   LP WASHINGTON, April 17 (Reuters) - A leading U.S. group of manufacturers said on Tuesday that the Federal Reserve should stand ready to cut interest rates further, saying that would weaken the U.S. dollar and help exporters. 

 "The Federal Reserve should reduce the federal funds interest rate from 5.0 percent to 4.5 percent and should be prepared to reduce the rate to 4.0 percent if conditions remain poor," National Association of Manufacturers President Jerry Jasinowski told a news conference. 
   TD The U.S. central bank has cut its key fed funds rate three times this year by a total of 1.5 percentage points to 5.0 percent in an effort to stave off recession. 

 Jasinowski said that while a recovery appears to be underway already in the economy, rate cuts as well as "large" retroactive marginal tax cuts would help ensure a pick-up in growth was strong. 

 "Signs of recovery are beginning to emerge, but the question is whether it will be weak or robust," he said, adding that the March U.S. industrial production report, released on Tuesday, backed the theory that a recovery is underway. 

 Production, boosted by activity in auto factories, rose 0.4 percent in March and beat analyst expectations. The report was a bright spot in an otherwise gloomy series of manufacturing data. 

 Jasinowski said he expects economic growth to pick up in the third quarter, leading to a 2.3 percent growth rate this year. 

 Growth in the first two quarters of this year will likely remain weak at around 0.9 percent and 1.3 percent in the first and second quarters as inventories adjustment is completed. But growth should then jump to 3.2 percent and 3.9 percent in the third and fourth quarters, he predicted. 

 He confirmed that NAM was scheduling a meeting with U.S. Treasury Secretary Paul O'Neill. However, he reiterated - contrary to reports last week that the meeting would focus on the strength of the U.S. dollar so troubling to manufacturers - the meeting would focus chiefly on taxes. 

 "We're going to be meeting with Secretary O'Neill. It's being rescheduled as we speak. It was due to take place in May. We might well raise the issue of the dollar but the meeting will be more focused on tax issues," Jasinowski said. 

 However, he said manufacturers are aware that there is little the Bush administration can do about the strong dollar. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States | usdc : Washington DC   ANDocument lba0000020010713dx4h01uel  



 HD U.S. manufacturing group calls for Fed rate cuts.    WC216 words   PD17 April 2001   ET17:09   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2001 Reuters Limited
   LP WASHINGTON, April 17 (Reuters) - A leading U.S. group of manufacturers urged the Federal Reserve on Tuesday to cut rates further, saying a rate reduction would weaken the U.S. dollar and help exporters. 

 "The Federal Reserve should reduce the federal funds interest rate from 5.0 percent to 4.5 percent and should be prepared to reduce the rate to 4.0 percent if conditions remain poor," National Association of Manufacturers President Jerry Jasinowski told a news conference. 
   TD Referring to the manufacturing sector, widely considered to have been suffering through a recession, Jasinowski said: "Signs of recovery are beginning to emerge, but the question is whether it will be weak or robust." 

 He confirmed that NAM was scheduling a meeting with U.S. Treasury Secretary Paul O'Neill. However, he reiterated - contrary to reports last week that the meeting would focus on the strength of the U.S. dollar so troubling to manufacturers - the meeting would focus chiefly on taxes. 

 "We're going to be meeting with Secretary O'Neill. It's being rescheduled as we speak. It was due to take place in May. We might well raise the issue of the dollar but the meeting will be more focused on tax issues," Jasinowski said. 
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States | usdc : Washington DC   ANDocument lba0000020010713dx4h01udh  
 Page 1 of 1      2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.


 

 Page 1      2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.

