 


 SEAsian-Pacific Markets   HDAustralian Dollar Looks Poised For Further Gains on U.S. Unit     BYBy Rebecca Thurlow  Dow Jones Newswires     WC600 words   PD11 November 2004   SNThe Asian Wall Street Journal   SCAWSJ   PGM3   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2004 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. To see the edition in which this article appeared, click here  http://awsj.com.hk/factiva-ns
   LPSYDNEY -- The Australian dollar has surged during the past week on the woes of its U.S. counterpart.  

Ahead of the U.S. Federal Reserve's interest-rate decision yesterday, many analysts said the Australian dollar is likely to gain further, with some forecasting it will make another push toward its seven-year high of 80.07 U.S. cents.  
   TD"We are basically seeing another leg down in the U.S. dollar that will persist, taking us to 80 cents by March of next year," predicted John Edwards, chief economist at HSBC.  

The Australian dollar rallied 2.5% to a high of about 76.37 U.S. cents this week from its low in the middle of last week as the U.S. dollar resumed its downward trajectory once the distraction of the U.S. election was removed.  

Mr. Edwards said he expects this new leg of the U.S. dollar's fall to be a depreciation of about 10% as the market continues to focus on the country's large current-account and budget deficits.  

"We expect them to persist, particularly because [President George W. Bush's administration] is completely unconvincing on its view that the budget deficit will narrow," Mr. Edwards said.  

The Australian dollar hit a seven-year high about of 80.07 U.S. cents in February before pulling back to a 2004 low of about 67.8 U.S. cents in May. With the help of a global-growth-linked pickup in commodity prices, the Australian unit has since edged higher; it was trading at 76.3 U.S. cents early afternoon yesterday in London.  

Stephen Roberts, an economist at Grange Securities, said while the outlook for the U.S. dollar is probably the most important factor in the Australian currency's outlook, commodity prices are also likely to stay supportive of the unit.  

"I am expecting still quite a deal of strength running through commodity prices because the slowing in economic activity in China isn't as pronounced as most people I think have expected," he said.  

The interest-rate-differential story could also become supportive of the Australian dollar next year if the Reserve Bank of Australia raises interest rates.  

The Australian central bank left its target cash rate steady at 5.25% for the 11th consecutive month last week amid signs the important housing sector continues to cool, household credit growth is slowing further and inflation is benign. In its quarterly monetary-policy statement Monday, the central bank said there is no pressing need for higher rates.  

However it was optimistic about the economy and said tighter monetary policy is likely to be required sometime in the current expansion, citing upside risks to inflation. And many economists are forecasting a rate increase next year.  

Not everyone agrees the local currency will be higher by year end. Commonwealth Bank currency strategist Alex Schuman said his bank is forecasting the unit will fall to 73 U.S. cents by then. However, Mr. Schuman said the local unit is likely to rally a bit more before it heads south.  

"The U.S. dollar has been given a whole lot of very positive information. The Bush victory should have been something that the U.S. dollar rallied on. As well as that you've had the China rate hike and now almost a US$10 fall in oil prices and a long-awaited statistical bounce in nonfarm payrolls," he said.  
   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REaustr : Australia | usa : United States | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | namz : North America   IPCDRT | NND | APM | LMJ   PUBDow Jones & Company Inc.   ANDocument AWSJ000020041110e0bb0001m  



 HDFed funds futures unchanged, see 80% odds for Dec. hike     WC165 words   PD11 November 2004   SNAFX Asia   SCAFXASI   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2004, AFX Asia. All rights reserved.  
   LPFed funds futures unchanged, see 80% odds for Dec. hike CHICAGO (XFN-ASIA) -- Short-term interest-rate futures contracts traded on the Chicago Board of Trade were little changed in the wake of the Federal Reserve's latest quarter-point rate hike and statement. The market is still telegraphing 80 percent odds the U.S. central bank will raise its target lending rate to 2.25 percent at its Dec. 14 meeting, roughly the same odds priced in since a strong October payrolls report. The futures markets see about a 69 percent chance the target moves to 2.50 percent at the Fed's Feb. 2 meeting, the same odds priced in earlier Wednesday. The futures market predicts a pause in March but puts strong odds on another hike after that, bringing the target rate to 2.75 percent by June. This story was supplied by CBSMarketWatch. For further information see www. cbsmarketwatch.com. MMMM   
   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBXinhua Financial Network Limited   ANDocument AFXASI0020041110e0bb007c3  



 HDFed set to lift rates again in December -- strategist     WC160 words   PD11 November 2004   SNAFX Asia   SCAFXASI   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2004, AFX Asia. All rights reserved.  
   LPFed set to lift rates again in December -- strategist NEW YORK (XFN-ASIA) -- The Federal Reserve is likely to raise its key Fed Funds rate by another quarter percentage point to 2.25 percent when it meets in December, said Lincoln Anderson, chief investment officer, at LPL Financial Services. "They'll look at the November employment numbers which come out on December 3 and at the CPI numbers (consumer price index) before they make a decision." Anderson said he expects the employment numbers to be strong as economic growth has picked up and employers are finally putting people back to work. U.S. stocks markets offered only a muted initial reaction to the Fed's decision to hike its key interest rate by a quarter percentage point on Thursday. It was "a fully anticipated decision, said Anderson. This story was supplied by CBSMarketWatch. For further information see  www.cbsmarketwatch.com. MMMM   
   COlinpl : LPL Holdings Inc   INi831 : Financial Investments | i83102 : Security Brokering/Dealing | iinv : Investing/Securities   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBXinhua Financial Network Limited   ANDocument AFXASI0020041110e0bb00797  



 SECars   HDRate Boost May Not Hit Car Buyers Immediately --- Rivals Don't Match GM, But Generous Incentives Are Expected to Continue   BYBy Jane J. Kim    WC1,004 words   PD11 November 2004   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGD5   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 2004, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LPCar buyers are bracing for higher interest rates.

Yesterday, the Federal Reserve raised interest rates for the fourth time this year and left the door open to more increases in coming months. That has big implications for the car industry, which has relied on generous financing offers to keep consumers buying cars.
   TDGeneral Motors Corp. yesterday launched a new rate-lock program aimed at consumers who are worried about rising rates. The program lets consumers buy two cars -- one now, one later -- at the same low interest rate. To get the second loan at the locked-in rate, customers must commit to a new car before the end of the first loan. The program runs until the end of the month.

Rival car companies declined to follow GM's move. Ford Motor Co. for its part, says it has "no intention" of offering a rate-lock program. "It could be a good deal for the consumer, but it could be costly to the company offering the program," says a spokesman. A DaimlerChrysler AG spokeswoman also says the company has no plans for a similar program. Whether car companies ultimately will follow GM's lead on a rate-lock program, industry analysts say, depends on whether GM's program is successful in taking away market share from the other manufacturers.

GM's program is the latest example in the battle of incentives heating up among auto makers who are looking for new ways to lure buyers who have come to expect 0% offers or hefty cash-back rebates. Ford and DaimlerChrysler, for example, are offering cash back rebates on many of their 2005 models, while others, such as Honda Motor Co., are continuing to offer subsidized lease deals with monthly payments as low as $169 on its popular Civic model. Ford also still is offering 0% financing on select 2004 models, such as the Explorer, Expedition and Freestar minivan, a spokesman for the company notes.

Consumers are actually somewhat insulated from higher interest rates, especially if they finance or lease a vehicle through an auto maker's finance arm. That's because many of the current car deals are being subsidized by the auto makers, who are likely to absorb the higher financing cost. About 50% to 60% of new-car loans are financed by auto makers' finance companies, according to Bob Kurilko, vice president at Edmunds.com.

"As the cost of borrowing goes up, manufacturers are absorbing the additional cost," says Mr. Kurilko.

That means rates on car loans are likely to either remain relatively stable, or increase slowly over time. Interest rates on car loans tend to move more closely with yields on three to five-year Treasurys, which have terms closer in length to those of average car loans. Currently, interest rates on four-year new-car loans from banks are averaging about 7.4%, compared with 7.2% a year earlier, says Greg McBride of Bankrate.com.

Still, a one-percentage-point increase in rates, for example, would translate into only an additional $12 a month for a consumer with a $25,000 loan, Mr. McBride says.

To be sure, auto makers will be less likely to offer 0%-financing deals as rates rise. Rather, manufacturers likely will shift more marketing dollars to programs such as cash rebates and leasing incentives, instead of focusing on financing offers.

Average incentive levels reached a record high in September of $3,146 per vehicle, although it fell to $2,655 per vehicle last month, primarily because of the introduction of new 2005 models, which tend to have fewer incentives, says Jesse Toprak, director of pricing analysis with Edmunds.com. In fact, the number of leases that are subsidized has more than doubled since last year, according to recent data from CNW Marketing Research Inc.

For now, consumers might be able to find attractive rates on car loans by getting approved for a car loan online and then visiting their local dealership, suggests Jeff Ostroff, president of Carbuyingtips.com. Companies such as Capital One Auto Finance, a unit of Capital One Financial Corp., is offering rates as low as 3.65% for 36-month loans.

---

Journal Link: See average rates on auto loans and payment calculators, at WSJ.com/PersonalJournal.

--- 


                             New Car Deals 
 
  Here's a sample of some of the deals that auto makers are offering right 
now. 
 
  GENERAL MOTORS CORP. 
 
  -- New "Lock n' Roll" program lets consumers buy two cars -- one now, one 
later -- at the same interest rate. To get the second loan at the locked-in 
rate, customers must commit to a new car before the end of the first loan. 
The loans will be offered for qualified buyers at 0% for 36 months, 2.9% for 
48 months and 3.9% for 60 months. Offer expires Nov. 30. 
 
  -- Offering cash-back rebates on many 2005 models including $2,000 cash 
back on Chevrolet TrailBlazers and GMC Envoys; $2,500 on the Chevrolet Tahoe 
and GMC Yukon; and $3,000 on Chevrolet Surburban. Offer expires Jan. 3. 
 
  FORD MOTOR CO. 
 
  -- Offering lease deals on select models, such as $299 a month on three- 
year leases on 2005 Ford Freestyle and Five Hundred Sedans. 
 
  -- Offering $2,000 cash back on select 2005 models including Ford Taurus, 
Explorer and Expeditions. Offer expires: Nov. 30. 
 
  DAIMLERCHRYSLER AG 
 
  -- Offering cash-back rebates on a number of 2005 models including $1,750 
on Dodge Ram trucks and Jeep Liberty models as well as $500 cash back on the 
PT Cruiser. 
 
  HONDA MOTOR CO. 
 
  -- Honda is also offering special lease deals on many of its 2005 models. 
For example, the company is offering 42-month leases with monthly payments 
ranging from $249 to $279 on popular models such as the Accord and Pilot and 
$169 monthly payments on the Civic models. 
 
  Source: the companies 
   

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   COdamb : Daimler AG | frdmo : Ford Motor Company   INi351 : Motor Vehicles | i35101 : Passenger Cars | iaut : Automobiles   NSc11 : Plans/Strategy | c31 : Marketing | c313 : Market Share | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter   REgfr : Germany | jap : Japan | usa : United States | usmi : Michigan | asiaz : Asia | easiaz : Eastern Asia | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | usc : Midwest U.S. | weurz : Western Europe   IPCCMR | DJCB | EWR | CYC | NND | CRS | LMJ | PSJ | TPT   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument J000000020041111e0bb0003q  



 HDBank Accounts Fail to Follow Fed's Lead --- As Rates Rise on Credit Cards And Home-Equity Lines, Savings Products Lag Behind   BYBy Ruth Simon    WC1,154 words   PD11 November 2004   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGD1   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 2004, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LPTHE FEDERAL RESERVE raised the nation's key short-term interest rate yesterday, but bank customers probably won't notice it. If the recent past is any guide, only a fraction of that increase is likely to find its way into savers' pockets.

With its latest move, the Fed pushed up the benchmark federal-funds rate -- the rate banks charge each other for overnight loans -- by a quarter-percentage point, to 2%. That's a full percentage point higher than it was before the Fed began its recent series of gradual rate increases in late June.
   TDHigher interest rates should be good news for savers, who've seen returns dwindle during recent years. But rates on savings, interest-bearing checking and money-market deposit accounts have hardly budged in recent months. For instance, the average savings account pays just 0.51%, according to Informa Research Services, a market-research firm.

Yields on short-term certificates of deposits, meanwhile, have moved up only modestly. At HSBC Holdings PLC's HSBC Bank USA, for instance, yields on CDs with maturities of three to 12 months have increased by 0.25 percentage point since late June. At Citibank, a unit of Citigroup Inc., short-term CD yields are 0.40 to 0.55 percentage point higher than in mid-June.

The reluctance of banks to pay higher rates to depositors stands in sharp contrast to the speed at which they pass on higher costs to borrowers with home-equity lines of credit, variable-rate credit cards and other adjustable-rate loans. Many of these loans are tied to the prime rate, which moves almost in lockstep with the federal-funds rate. Rates on variable-rate credit cards, for instance, now average 14.34%, according to Bankrate.com, up from 13.53% at the end of June. (For a list of banks offering higher yields, see chart on page D2.)

Even financial-services institutions generally known for paying higher yields have been slow to pass on the higher rates to their customers. ING Direct, for instance, currently pays 2.2% on its Orange Savings Account, just 0.10 percentage point more than it did in June. "We look not to the Fed rate but our competitors when it comes to pricing," says a spokeswoman for the company, a unit of ING Groep NV.

Institutions offering higher rates include Capital One Financial Corp. Its money-market fund now yields 2.15%, up from 1.75% in June. At Corus Bank, a unit of Corus Bankshares Inc., three-month CDs now yield 2.52%. Internet banks, credit unions and some brokerage firms and insurance companies typically offer higher deposit rates than traditional commercial banks, says Informa's Ray Montague.

Yields on savings products are likely to move higher in response to the latest rate increase, but savers may not see the increase until a quarter or two later, and even then capture only a portion of the gains, says John McCune, research director for SNL Financial LC in Charlottesville, Va. Banks were far quicker to pass on the lower rates to savers when the Fed was cutting rates.

Right now, the highest-yielding six-month CDs pay more than 2.75%, nearly double the national average, according to Informa, which surveys roughly 3,000 institutions nationally. Some of the best rates are offered by local credit unions.

Another bright spot for savers: higher yields on money-market mutual funds, which had dropped as low as 0.50% in mid-2003. They now average 1.24%, according to iMoneyNet Inc., slightly more than the average three-month CD. Rates on these funds move up quickly in response to the Fed's moves because the funds invest in short-term securities.

Rates on bank savings products, on the other hand, tend to be set by bank committees based on competitive pressures and their own funding needs. When it comes to products such as savings and checking accounts, competition has focused more on services such as free checking, extended hours and extensive ATM networks than on rates.

For lenders, the rate increases provide an opportunity to boost profit margins, which have narrowed during recent years. Net interest margins -- a measure of bank profitability -- stabilized during the third quarter after declining for eight of the past nine quarters, according to a recent report by Citigroup analyst Ruchi Madan.

Where banks have raised rates, the increases are most apparent in higher yields for shorter-term CDs. Yields on six-month CDs, for instance, began moving up ahead of the Fed's first rate move and have climbed a further 0.35 percentage point since the end of June, according to Bankrate.com. By contrast, bank money-market account yields have increased by just 0.06 percentage point.

Some brick-and-mortar banks are running special promotions aimed at savers looking for a place to park their cash in anticipation of further rate increases. Cincinnati-based Fifth Third Bancorp, for instance, is offering a 2.50% rate on nine-month certificates of deposit. "The short-term specials are where we're seeing a lot of growth," says Fifth Third Chief Marketing Officer Wil Daly.

Other banks are creating special deals aimed at people willing to bring in large deposits. Citibank is offering a 2.25% yield on money-market accounts for customers who bring $25,000 in new funds to the bank. Similarly, J.P. Morgan Chase &Co. is offering rates of 2.25% to 2.75% through Feb. 28 to customers in 10 states who bring in at least $25,000 to a money-market account.

---

Journal Link: Read more about what the Fed's rate increase means for consumers, in Go Figure, at WSJ.com/PersonalJournal.

--- 


                            Check Your Rates 
 
   What the Fed hikes have meant: 
 
   -- Rates on checking, savings and money-market accounts have barely 
      budged. 
 
   -- Money-market mutual funds now yield an average 1.24%, up from as little 
      as 0.50%. 
 
   -- Certificates of deposit have moved upward, but not nearly as much. 
 
   -- Rates on variable-rate credit cards have moved upward quickly.    

--- 


                       How Does Your Bank Measure Up? 
 
   Here are the ranges of interest rates currently paid by some popular bank 
products. 
 
                                              ANNUAL PERCENTAGE YIELD 
PRODUCT                               LOW             AVERAGE         HIGH 
 
3-month CD*                          0.10%             1.13%          2.41% 
12-month CD*                         0.35              1.80           3.05 
36-month CD*                         0.50              2.92           4.26 
Interest-Checking**                  0.01              0.31           3.01 
Money-market deposit account***      0.02              0.72           2.89 
Savings account                      0.05              0.51           2.50 
 
  * Based on $25,000 investment. 
  ** With a $2,500 balance. 
  *** On balances of $10,000. 
 
  Note: Rates as of Nov. 9. 
 
  Source: Information Research Services, Inc. 
    

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   COhksbc : HSBC Holdings PLC | nn : ING Groep NV   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | i8150211 : Unit Trusts/Mutual Funds | i82 : Insurance | i82002 : Life Insurance | i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles | ibnk : Banking/Credit | iinv : Investing/Securities   NSccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | gpersf : Personal Finance | gvexe : Executive Branch | m131 : Money Markets | m16 : Fund Markets | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | gcat : Political/General News | glife : Living/Lifestyle | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | reqrbc : Editor's Choice - Banking/Credit | reqr : Editor's Choice - Industry Trends/Analysis   REneth : Netherlands | usa : United States | usil : Illinois | usny : New York | usva : Virginia | benluxz : Benelux Countries | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | usc : Midwest U.S. | use : Northeast U.S. | uss : Southern U.S. | weurz : Western Europe   IPCBKG | CMR | EWR | FED | USG | FIN | NND | TPX | LMJ | PSJ | TPT   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument J000000020041111e0bb0003p  



 SELeading the News   HDFed Increases Short-Term Rate to 2%   BYBy Greg Ip    WC815 words   PD11 November 2004   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGA3   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 2004, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LPThe Federal Reserve raised interest rates for the fourth time this year and left the door open to more increases in coming months. The Fed's interest-rate setting committee raised its short-term interest-rate target to 2% from 1.75%, as widely expected.

The Fed has boosted the rate a quarter of a point at each of four consecutive meetings since June, when the rate stood at a 46-year low of 1%. Several commercial banks responded by raising the prime rate, a benchmark for commercial and consumer loans, to 5% from 4.75%. The Federal Open Market Committee said, as it did after each of its past three increases, that it can raise rates "at a pace that is likely to be measured," leaving the door open to another increase at its Dec. 14 meeting.
   TDEconomists are split on the likelihood of such an increase. "If they see evidence hiring is holding up and consumer spending isn't tanking despite high oil prices, they'll not be too concerned," even if oil prices rise some more, said Peter Hooper, chief U.S. economist at Deutsche Bank, who expects a December rate increase.

But Laurence Meyer, a former Fed governor now working for the forecasting firm Macroeconomic Advisers, said the Fed sees little momentum to economic growth at present. "If the economy is stuck in this [trend] for another quarter or two, they are going to pause in December."

One wild card is the dollar. "Even with the rate hikes, the dollar has been weakening," noted David Malpass, chief global economist at Bear Stearns. A lower dollar raises the prices of imports and thus puts upward pressure on inflation.

Though yesterday's meeting was devoid of surprises, it appears to mark a transition. The past four increases have been motivated mostly by the Fed's desire to lift rates from emergency levels that were appropriate when deflation was more of a concern than inflation.

For almost two years, the "real," or inflation-adjusted, funds rate had been negative, and Fed officials considered that to be a recipe in the long run for accelerating inflation. Though 2% is still below neutral, it is now above the underlying inflation rate of 1.4%, based on the Fed's preferred price index. Neutral, in Fed jargon, means a level that neither stimulates nor restrains growth, and commonly is estimated at 3% to 5% in the long run.

"Now that the real fed-funds rate is out of [or very close to being out of] negative territory, the [interest rate] path is expected to become more data dependent," Morgan Stanley economist David Greenlaw wrote in a note to clients. The strength in employment and declines in oil prices have led markets to expect a rate boost in December, but signs of weaker consumer or business spending or another jump in oil prices could change that.

The statement accompanying the rate decision gave little hint of the Fed's plans. It said, "Output appears to be growing at a moderate pace, despite the rise in energy prices, and labor-market conditions have improved." The assessment was a bit more upbeat than the one issued in September, when the Fed said output growth had regained "some traction" and the job market had improved "modestly." The Fed also said, "Inflation and longer-term inflation expectations remain well contained." And once again, it stated that the risks to both inflation and growth in the next few quarters were balanced.

Because the Fed signaled no inclination to pause in its rate increases, futures markets continued to put about 80% odds on a quarter-point increase in December. Still, some Fed officials may want to pause. Just 10 of the Fed's 12 regional banks requested a quarter-point increase in the little-used discount rate to 3% before yesterday's meeting, whereas all 12 had asked for the three prior increases.

The San Francisco and Dallas regional banks didn't ask for an increase before yesterday, though San Francisco did so after the meeting. The president of the San Francisco bank, Janet Yellen, recently has been more cautious on the economic outlook than her peers. The Dallas bank's president, Robert McTeer, resigned last week to take another job, but that was well after his bank's board last met.

Regional-bank boards send requests to change the discount rate, which is charged on short-term Fed loans to commercial banks, to the Federal Reserve Board in Washington. Those requests usually reflect the monetary-policy recommendation of the bank's president. Though all 12 voting members of the 19-member FOMC supported yesterday's rate increase, neither Ms. Yellen nor the acting Dallas president, Helen Holcomb, have a vote this year. 

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | ecat : Economic News | gvexe : Executive Branch | m131 : Money Markets | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCPIC | FED | USG | NND | TPX | LMJ | MJR | TPT   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument J000000020041111e0bb0003o  



 CLMWednesday's Markets   HDStock Market Pays Little Heed To Rate Rise   BYBy E.S. Browning    WC569 words   PD11 November 2004   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGC1   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 2004, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LPALAN GREENSPAN RAISED interest rates, and the stock market shrugged.

The move by the Federal Reserve chairman and his colleagues was so widely expected that the reaction was unusually calm. It was the fourth Fed rate increase since the end of June, and investors were nervously aware that stocks sometimes have sagged after a fourth Fed rate boost. But interest rates remain so low -- the Fed's target short-term rate still is just 2%, and the 10-year Treasury bond still yields only 4.251% -- that many investors think they won't prove a serious brake on corporate profits or on stock gains.
   TDThe Dow Jones Industrial Average finished the day practically unchanged, down 0.89 points, less than one-hundredth of one percent, at 10385.48. It still is down 0.7% this year. Other big-stock indexes showed small declines. The stock market is in a pause after last week's sharp gains, but the interest-rate news surprised no one, said John O'Donoghue, senior stock trader at New York brokerage firm Credit Suisse First Boston. Furthermore, the Fed's statement on the economic outlook was little changed from September. That led investors to conclude that the Fed will raise its target rate another quarter-point next month -- as expected -- gradually moving rates up from 40-year lows to prevent inflation.

The dollar moved sharply, rising 1.4% against the yen, its sharpest percentage gain in six months. The September trade deficit came in much narrower than expected, and there was talk in currency markets that Asian countries again are reluctant to see their currencies rise rapidly against the dollar. Investors have been treating gold lately as a bet on a declining dollar. After hitting a 16-year high Tuesday of $435.70, gold futures fell $1.70 to $434.00.

Crude-oil futures posted their biggest gain in almost two months, jumping $1.49, or 3.2%, to $48.86 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange, as the Energy Department's weekly inventory numbers were slightly weaker than hoped. Crude still is 11% off the 21-year high of $55.17 hit last month.

The broad Standard &Poor's 500-stock index declined 0.10%, or 1.17 points, to 1162.91, still up 4.6% for 2004 and near the three-year high of 1166.17 hit Friday. The Nasdaq Composite Index fell 0.43%, or 8.77 points, to 2034.56, up 1.6% this year. Its many technology stocks were weighed down by disappointing earnings news.

Outside the U.S., stocks declined in dollar terms. The Dow Jones World Stock Index, excluding U.S. stocks, fell 0.04%, or 0.07 point, to 159.87.

In major U.S. market action:

Major stock indexes retreated. But on the Big Board, where 1.51 billion shares traded, 1,943 stocks rose and only 1,349 fell.

Bonds declined. The 10-year Treasury note fell 8/32, or $2.50 for each $1,000 invested. The 30-year bond was down 14/32 to yield 4.970%.

The dollar strengthened. Late in New York, it traded at 107.17 yen, up from 105.74, while the euro fell against the dollar to $1.2895 from $1.2898. 

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   NSm11 : Equity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | e1202 : Interest Rates | gpersf : Personal Finance | gvtre : Treasury Department | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m131 : Money Markets | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | mntdbt : National Government Debt/Bond Markets | nsum : News Digest | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | glife : Living/Lifestyle | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | gvexe : Executive Branch | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | niwe : IWE Filter   REjap : Japan | usa : United States | asiaz : Asia | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America   IPCPIC | TRE | USG | STT | JPY | NND | TPX | USD | MIM | PMK | TFR | TPT   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument J000000020041111e0bb00034  



 CLMCredit Markets   HDBehind the Curve: Time May Be Short for Yield Bet   BYBy Michael Mackenzie  Dow Jones Newswires    WC875 words   PD11 November 2004   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGC4   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 2004, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LPNEW YORK -- Those who bet this year on a flattening in the so-called yield curve in Treasurys have had a great run. But now, with the market pricing in a December Federal Reserve rate increase, that play seems to be running into a brick wall.

During a monetary-policy tightening cycle, yields -- which move inversely to bond prices -- rise as rate increases are implemented. But yields of longer maturities rise less than the two-year yield, because rate increases hit shorter maturities harder. The result is a shrinking of the difference between short- and long-term yields, which in bond parlance is a flattening in the yield curve.
   TDThanks to the doubling since June of the federal-funds rate to 2%, a flattening yield curve has been the winning trade in the bond market. The difference between two- and 10-year yields has compressed to 1.4 percentage points from 2.46 points at the start of the year.

In its simplest form, a flattening bet involves selling shorter maturities against buying longer-dated ones. Such a move has rewarded investors who were expecting rate increases this year and structured their portfolios of Treasurys to benefit. For many money mangers who invest solely in government bonds, the impact of rate increases and rising yields can be offset by betting on a flatter curve.

The Fed raised its federal-funds rate target rates by a quarter percentage point yesterday and issued a statement that led investors to conclude there is a strong chance of a similar-size move in December.

Now, the big question is whether the yield curve has had its run, analysts say. "The yield curve is already fairly priced for future rate hikes," said Dominic Konstam, head of interest-rate strategy at Credit Suisse First Boston. "It still retains a flattening bias," but any further move is likely to be gentle.

Consolidation is expected until the market sees October inflation data next week and another monthly Labor Department report on payroll growth in early December. "Inflation and November payrolls will be important determinants of how the Fed proceeds at its next meeting," said Neil Moriarty, managing director U.S. core fixed income at Deutsche Asset Management. "The curve is still in an overall flattening trend, but the speed of that move depends upon the data and how the Fed reacts."

A holding pattern could hurt the flattening trade -- which is a costly position to hold over time because the trade involves selling four times the amount of two-year notes versus the size of the 10-year purchase. So, within this year's overall flattening trend, there have been periods of consolidation and resteepening, particularly when data have sent conflicting signals and aroused fears of the Fed pausing in its tightening cycle.

If November's payroll figures build on October's 337,000 gain, investors would expect another quarter-percentage-point rate increase, and that would support further flattening. Until then, it is better to stay neutral around the 1.3 percentage-point area because, "all it takes is a weak payroll report to resteepen the curve," said William Strazzullo, chief trading strategist at State Street.

In the event of a resteepening of the curve, any move to the 1.48- to 1.5-percentage-point level in the difference between the two- and 10-year Treasurys represents a "good area to re-establish curve-flattening positions," said John Kosar, chartered market technician at Bianco Research. "We are still in a very healthy flattening trend, that for the 2/10s won't be broken unless we steepen back above 1.57 percentage points."

The scale of flattening and whether it can break below the one-percentage-point level, last seen in April 2001, "will be a function of how strong the economic recovery turns out and where the funds rate ultimately tops out," Mr. Strazzullo said.

Yesterday, Treasury prices ended lower. The negative tone stemmed in part from concerns that the Fed's policy statement would have a hawkish tone, said Jim Caron, bond-market analyst at Merrill Lynch. At 4 p.m., the benchmark 10-year note was down 8/32 point, or $2.50 per $1,000 face value, at 100. Its yield rose to 4.251% from 4.222% Tuesday. The 30-year bond was down 14/32 point at 105 29/32 to yield 4.97%, up from 4.943% Tuesday.

The bond market will be closed in the U.S. today in observance of Veterans Day. 


 
                              AUCTION RESULTS 
 
 Here are results of yesterday's Treasury auction of 10-year notes. All bids 
are awarded at a single price at the market-clearing yield. Rates are 
determined by the difference between that price and the face value. 
 
Applications..........................  $28,760,934,000 
Accepted bids.........................  $14,000,099,000 
Bids at market-clearing yield accepted            61.68% 
Accepted noncompetitively.............     $123,531,000 
" foreign noncompetitively............     $100,000,000 
Auction price (Rate).................. 99.758010 (4.280) 
Interest rate.........................            4 1/4% 
Cusip number..........................        912828DC1 
 
  The notes are dated Nov. 15 and mature Nov. 15, 2014. 
   

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   NSm12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mntdbt : National Government Debt/Bond Markets | e1202 : Interest Rates | gvtre : Treasury Department | m131 : Money Markets | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | gvexe : Executive Branch | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCTRE | USG | NND | TPX | CRD | MIM   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument J000000020041111e0bb0000p  



 HDWSJ(11/11) UPDATE: Rate Boost To Spare Car Buyers Near-Term   WC1,000 words   PD11 November 2004   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGD5   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 2004, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP
   (From THE WALL STREET JOURNAL) 
   By Jane J. Kim   

Car buyers are bracing for higher interest rates.
   TDYesterday, the Federal Reserve raised interest rates for the fourth time this year and left the door open to more increases in coming months. That has big implications for the car industry, which has relied on generous financing offers to keep consumers buying cars.

General Motors Corp. yesterday launched a new rate-lock program aimed at consumers who are worried about rising rates. The program lets consumers buy two cars -- one now, one later -- at the same low interest rate. To get the second loan at the locked-in rate, customers must commit to a new car before the end of the first loan. The program runs until the end of the month.

Rival car companies declined to follow GM's move. Ford Motor Co. for its part, says it has "no intention" of offering a rate-lock program. "It could be a good deal for the consumer, but it could be costly to the company offering the program," says a spokesman. A DaimlerChrysler AG spokeswoman also says the company has no plans for a similar program. Whether car companies ultimately will follow GM's lead on a rate-lock program, industry analysts say, depends on whether GM's program is successful in taking away market share from the other manufacturers.

GM's program is the latest example in the battle of incentives heating up among auto makers who are looking for new ways to lure buyers who have come to expect 0% offers or hefty cash-back rebates. Ford and DaimlerChrysler, for example, are offering cash back rebates on many of their 2005 models, while others, such as Honda Motor Co., are continuing to offer subsidized lease deals with monthly payments as low as $169 on its popular Civic model. Ford also still is offering 0% financing on select 2004 models, such as the Explorer, Expedition and Freestar minivan, a spokesman for the company notes.

Consumers are actually somewhat insulated from higher interest rates, especially if they finance or lease a vehicle through an auto maker's finance arm. That's because many of the current car deals are being subsidized by the auto makers, who are likely to absorb the higher financing cost. About 50% to 60% of new-car loans are financed by auto makers' finance companies, according to Bob Kurilko, vice president at Edmunds.com.

"As the cost of borrowing goes up, manufacturers are absorbing the additional cost," says Mr. Kurilko.

That means rates on car loans are likely to either remain relatively stable, or increase slowly over time. Interest rates on car loans tend to move more closely with yields on three to five-year Treasurys, which have terms closer in length to those of average car loans. Currently, interest rates on four-year new-car loans from banks are averaging about 7.4%, compared with 7.2% a year earlier, says Greg McBride of Bankrate.com.

Still, a one-percentage-point increase in rates, for example, would translate into only an additional $12 a month for a consumer with a $25,000 loan, Mr. McBride says.

To be sure, auto makers will be less likely to offer 0%-financing deals as rates rise. Rather, manufacturers likely will shift more marketing dollars to programs such as cash rebates and leasing incentives, instead of focusing on financing offers.

Average incentive levels reached a record high in September of $3,146 per vehicle, although it fell to $2,655 per vehicle last month, primarily because of the introduction of new 2005 models, which tend to have fewer incentives, says Jesse Toprak, director of pricing analysis with Edmunds.com. In fact, the number of leases that are subsidized has more than doubled since last year, according to recent data from CNW Marketing Research Inc.

For now, consumers might be able to find attractive rates on car loans by getting approved for a car loan online and then visiting their local dealership, suggests Jeff Ostroff, president of Carbuyingtips.com. Companies such as Capital One Auto Finance, a unit of Capital One Financial Corp., is offering rates as low as 3.65% for 36-month loans.

---

Journal Link: See average rates on auto loans and payment calculators, at WSJ.com/PersonalJournal.

--- 


                             New Car Deals 
 
  Here's a sample of some of the deals that auto makers are offering right 
now. 
 
  GENERAL MOTORS CORP. 
 
  -- New "Lock n' Roll" program lets consumers buy two cars -- one now, one 
later -- at the same interest rate. To get the second loan at the locked-in 
rate, customers must commit to a new car before the end of the first loan. 
The loans will be offered for qualified buyers at 0% for 36 months, 2.9% for 
48 months and 3.9% for 60 months. Offer expires Nov. 30. 
 
  -- Offering cash-back rebates on many 2005 models including $2,000 cash 
back on Chevrolet TrailBlazers and GMC Envoys; $2,500 on the Chevrolet Tahoe 
and GMC Yukon; and $3,000 on Chevrolet Surburban. Offer expires Jan. 3. 
 
  FORD MOTOR CO. 
 
  -- Offering lease deals on select models, such as $299 a month on three- 
year leases on 2005 Ford Freestyle and Five Hundred Sedans. 
 
  -- Offering $2,000 cash back on select 2005 models including Ford Taurus, 
Explorer and Expeditions. Offer expires: Nov. 30. 
 
  DAIMLERCHRYSLER AG 
 
  -- Offering cash-back rebates on a number of 2005 models including $1,750 
on Dodge Ram trucks and Jeep Liberty models as well as $500 cash back on the 
PT Cruiser. 
 
  HONDA MOTOR CO. 
 
  -- Honda is also offering special lease deals on many of its 2005 models. 
For example, the company is offering 42-month leases with monthly payments 
ranging from $249 to $279 on popular models such as the Accord and Pilot and 
$169 monthly payments on the Civic models. 
 
  Source: the companies 
   

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   COdamb : Daimler AG | frdmo : Ford Motor Company   INi351 : Motor Vehicles | i35101 : Passenger Cars | iaut : Automobiles   NSc11 : Plans/Strategy | c31 : Marketing | c313 : Market Share | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter   REusa : United States | gfr : Germany | jap : Japan | usmi : Michigan | asiaz : Asia | easiaz : Eastern Asia | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | usc : Midwest U.S. | weurz : Western Europe   IPCCMR | DJCB | EWR | XDJN | CYC | NND | CRS | LMJ | PSJ   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument J000000020041111e0bb00001  



 SEFRONT PAGE - FIRST SECTION   HDFed lifts rate to 2% and keeps stance.   BYBy RALPH ATKINS and ANDREW BALLS    WC569 words   PD11 November 2004   SNFinancial Times   SCFTFT   EDUSA Ed1   PGPage 1   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2004 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LP* No change in policy which 'remains accommodative'

* Italy raises prospect of intervention to stabilise euro
   TDThe Federal Reserve yesterday raised its target interest rate by a quarter point to 2 per cent, the fourth consecutive increase since June.

The policymaking Federal Open Market Committee reiterated that policy stance "remains accommodative" and that it expected to raise rates "at a pace that is likely to be measured".

The Fed's rate increase and the limited changes to its statement were widely expected, and financial markets were little changed.

Italy's government last night appeared to raise the prospect of co-ordinated central bank intervention to stabilise the euro, highlighting European nervousness about the impact of its rise against the dollar on the eurozone's fragile recovery.

Domenico Siniscalco, economy minister, was quoted by several news agencies as saying "a co-ordinated intervention is being talked about again, not a unilateral intervention."

Mr Siniscalco later sought to clarify his remarks, telling the Financial Times he had merely been talking about the need to co-ordinate policy on the euro at the level of the Group of Seven industrial nations. He said he meant simply that "unilateral action makes no sense" and made clear he had no knowledge of any intervention plans.

Rob Nichols, US Treasury spokesman, said: "I can affirm there has been absolutely no change in US policy in this area. We believe that currency values should be set in open and competitive markets."

In its statement, the Fed said "output appears to be growing at a moderate pace despite the rise in energy prices, and labour market conditions have improved". At its last meeting, the committee had indicated that the economy had "regained some traction" following the energy price rise and that labour market conditions had improved modestly.

Some economists took that as a more positive statement on growth and the labour market. Others noted the Fed's characterisation of output growth as moderate.

The Fed in effect left its options open. It provided no hint of an upcoming pause or a change in its strategy, but committee members have made clear that the measured pace language is not a commitment to raise rates at each meeting.

"The most important message is that the committee said that policy remains accommodative," said Dean Maki, economist at JPMorgan Chase in New York.

There has been widespread speculation that the Fed will leave rates on hold at its December meeting, although following the strong October payroll report released on Friday the futures markets have priced in the probability of another rate in increase at the meeting.

Ten regional Federal Reserve Banks requested a quarter-point increase in the discount rate to 3 per cent, but the San Francisco and Dallas Feds did not. This is not necessarily any indication of a dissenting view, although Janet Yellen, president of the San Francisco Fed and non-voting member of the FOMC, stressed the downside risks to the growth outlook in a recent speech.

The federal funds rate, at 2 per cent, is still seen as well below the level seen as consistent with price stability over time. The central bank is likely to press ahead with rate increases while there is no sign that tighter monetary policy risks destabilising the economy. Lex, Page 16 
   RF20041111U101.147   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | npag : Page-One Story | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types   REitaly : Italy | usa : United States | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | medz : Mediterranean | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTFT000020041111e0bb0005y  



 HDFed pushes interest rates up a quarter percentage point     BYBy JEANNINE AVERSA     CRAssociated Press Writer   WC768 words   PD10 November 2004   ET21:17   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2004.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.  
   LPWASHINGTON (AP) - The Federal Reserve boosted a key short-term interest rate by one-quarter percentage point Wednesday, the fourth increase this year. It's part of a credit tightening campaign to bring rates back up to more normal levels now that the economy's recovery from the 2001 recession is more deeply rooted.  

Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan and his Federal Open Market Committee colleagues -- who set interest rate policy in the United States -- increased the target for the federal funds rate to 2 percent from 1.75 percent.  
   TDThe funds rate is the interest banks charge each other on overnight loans and is the Fed's primary tool for influencing economic activity.  

In response to the Fed's decision to push up the funds rate, commercial banks were expected to increase by a corresponding amount their prime lending rate for many short-term consumer and business loans to 5 percent from 4.75 percent.  

The Fed's current rate-raising campaign began in June with a quarter-point boost, marking the first rate increase in four years. The Fed bumped up rates again by a quarter-point in August and September and then once more Wednesday.  

Fed policy-makers stuck to their view that future rate increases would be gradual. They said rates could rise at a pace likely to be "measured," retaining language contained in previous statements.  

On the economy, the Fed said it "appears to be growing at a moderate pace despite the rise in energy prices, and labor market conditions have improved."  

The Fed also said inflation and longer-term inflation expectations "remain well contained," another reason the Fed can stick with its gradual approach to raising rates.  

The vote was unanimous.  

"Monetary policy-makers seem quite pleased with the current state of the economy," said Lynn Reaser, chief economist at Banc of America Capital Management. Still, she said, "The Fed's task is not complete. Policy-makers want to see rates at more normal levels with the belief the economy no longer needs the prop of excessively low interest rates."  

The Fed's latest rate increase comes as many economists believe the economy has emerged from a late spring and early summer soft patch.  

The economy added a sizable 337,000 jobs in October, the most since March, the government said last week. While the figures were helped by job gains related to hurricane cleanup efforts, they nonetheless raised hopes that the recovery in the labor market, which has been uneven, is gaining some real traction.  

The pickup in October's payrolls was welcome news to President George W. Bush, who sparred frequently with Democratic rival John Kerry over the health of the labor market and job losses that have occurred since Bush took office in January 2001.  

Economists believe the odds are increasing for the Fed to boost the funds rate again on Dec. 14, at its last meeting of the year. Before the good news on October payrolls, many economists believed the Fed would probably stand pat at the December meeting.  

Private economists are keeping close tabs on the direction of both the jobs market and energy prices.  

Oil prices have retreated from a record high of just over $55 a barrel late last month and were trading at over $47 a barrel Wednesday.  

The economy grew at a 3.7 percent annual rate in the third quarter of this year. But it could slow a tad in the current quarter, weighed down by the lingering effect of high energy prices, economists said. In October, though, consumer spending -- the lifeblood of the economy -- was brisk.  

Despite high oil prices, inflation isn't an immediate threat to the economy, analysts said. But to ensure it doesn't become a problem in the future, the Fed has been pushing up the funds rate, analysts said.  

Before the Fed embarked on its rate-raising campaign in June, the funds rate had been kept for a year at 1 percent, a 46-year low. That ultra-low rate was the result of 13 rate reductions aimed at rescuing an economy jilted by the 2001 recession, terrorist attacks and two wars.  

Economists, noting that extraordinarily low interest rates could sow the seeds of inflation, have stressed the importance of moving the funds rate back to more normal levels. Some analysts believe a funds rate of around 4 percent would be relatively "neutral," meaning it is neither slowing nor stimulating economic activity.  

------  

On the Net:  

Federal Reserve:  http://www.federalreserve.gov/
   RF7   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagpf1wcat | sel----- | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | NA FIN US Fed Interest Rates | D8697EV00   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020041110e0ba004vc  



 HDFed says FOMC  interest rate  meeting starts as scheduled     WC116 words   PD10 November 2004   SNAFX Asia   SCAFXASI   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2004, AFX Asia. All rights reserved.  
   LPFed says FOMC interest rate meeting starts as scheduled WASHINGTON (XFN-ASIA) -- The Federal Reserve's interest rate-setting Federal Open Market Committee meeting began as scheduled at 9 a.m. Wednesday, the central bank announced. Economists and traders are expecting the Fed to raise its short term interest rate target by a quarter percentage point. Economists surveyed by CBS MarketWatch expect an increase in the federal funds rate from 1.75 percent to 2 percent when the announcement is scheduled to be made at about 2:15 p.m. Eastern time Wednesday. This story was supplied by CBSMarketWatch. For further information see  www.cbsmarketwatch.com. MMMM   
   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBXinhua Financial Network Limited   ANDocument AFXASI0020041110e0ba006hz  



 HDFed raises key rate quarter point to 2.0 percent     BYDJW     WC544 words   PD10 November 2004   ET23:30   SNAgence France Presse   SCAFPR   LAEnglish   CYCopyright Agence France-Presse, 2004 All reproduction and presentation rights reserved.  
   LPWASHINGTON, Nov 10 (AFP) -  

US Federal Reserve policymakers, heartened by a burst in new jobs in October, raised key short-term interest rates Wednesday and hinted at further small increases ahead.  
   TDThe key federal funds target rate, which commercial banks charge each other overnight, rose to 2.0 percent from 1.75 percent, by unanimous vote of the Federal Open Market Committee.  

Interest rate rises can continue at a "measured pace," they said, barely budging financial markets, which had overwhelmingly anticipated the decision. Wall Street's blue-chip Dow Jones index eased 0.01 percent.  

"The committee believes that, even after this action, the stance of monetary policy remains accommodative and, coupled with robust underlying growth in productivity, is providing ongoing support to economic activity," the committee said in a statement.  

"Output appears to be growing at a moderate pace despite the rise in energy prices, and labor market conditions have improved. Inflation and longer-term inflation expectations remain well contained."  

Risks to economic growth and inflation seemed balanced, the Federal Reserve policymakers said, vowing however, to respond "as needed" to keep prices stable as economic prospects dictate.  

It was the fourth rate rise since June 30, when Federal Reserve chairman Alan Greenspan and his colleagues edged up the key rate from a 1958 low of 1.0 percent.  

Economists and traders universally expected the latest move, after a government report soothed economic concerns, showing a seven-month record of 337,000 extra jobs were created in October.  

The debate has switched to whether Greenspan and his colleagues will do so again at a meeting December 14.  

"As long as the economy remains on track towards full employment, the Fed will continue to take back the emergency level of rinterst rates undertaken in recent years," said BMO Financial Group economist Sal Guatieri.  

He predicted further interest rate increases at the next two FOMC meetings -- December 14 and February 1-2.  

"I think the Federal Reserve is really on course, hiking interest rates slowly and gradually," agreed Wells Fargo Bank chief US economist Sung Won Sohn.  

"The economy is doing a bit better right now, to be sure, but there are still some concerns about geopolitics, employment and the price of oil," he added.  

"So I think the Federal Reserve does not want to rock the boat and is using a gradual, slow approach in raising the interest rate."  

With inflationary pressures tame, there was no need for the central bank to speed up interest-rate increases, he said.  

In a related action, the central bank also raised the discount rate -- at which the central bank can lend to commercial banks -- to 3.0 percent from 2.75 percent.  

That decision was taken at the request of most of the 12 Federal Reserve Bank presidents, but not the leaders of banks in Dallas and San Francisco, Guatieri noted.  

"That might suggest a couple of the banks did not strongly see the need for a raise in interest rates," he said, with productivity gains likely to keep inflation tame.  

It also may indicate a shift in sentiment towards a pause in the cycle of rising interest rates "at some point," Guatieri said.  

djw/rl/ceh  
   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPDUS | economy | bank | rates sched | lead   PUBAgence France Presse   ANDocument AFPR000020041110e0ba00j27  



 HDFed raises key rate quarter point to 2.0 percent     BYDJW     WC522 words   PD10 November 2004   ET20:59   SNAgence France Presse   SCAFPR   LAEnglish   CYCopyright Agence France-Presse, 2004 All reproduction and presentation rights reserved.  
   LPWASHINGTON, Nov 10 (AFP) -  

US Federal Reserve policymakers, heartened by a burst in new jobs in October, raised key short-term interest rates Wednesday for the fourth time in a row.  
   TDThe key federal funds target rate, which commercial banks charge each other overnight, rose to 2.0 percent from 1.75 percent, by unanimous vote of the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC).  

Interest rate rises can continue at a "measured pace," they said.  

"The committee believes that, even after this action, the stance of monetary policy remains accommodative and, coupled with robust underlying growth in productivity, is providing ongoing support to economic activity," the FOMC said in a statement.  

"Output appears to be growing at a moderate pace despite the rise in energy prices, and labor market conditions have improved. Inflation and longer-term inflation expectations remain well contained."  

Risks to economic growth and inflation seemed balanced, the Federal Reserve policymakers said, vowing however, to respond "as needed" to keep prices stable as economic prospects dictate.  

It was the fourth rate rise since June 30, when Federal Reserve chairman Alan Greenspan and his colleagues edged up the key rate from a 1958 low of 1.0 percent.  

Economists and traders universally expected the latest move, after a government report soothed economic concerns, showing a seven-month record of 337,000 extra jobs were created in October.  

The debate has switched to whether Greenspan and his colleagues will do so again at a meeting December 14.  

"As long as the economy remains on track towards full employment, the Fed will continue to take back the emergency level of rinterst rates undertaken in recent years," said BMO Financial Group economist Sal Guatieri.  

He predicted further interest rate increases at the next two FOMC meetings -- December 14 and February 1-2.  

"I think the Federal Reserve is really on course, hiking interest rates slowly and gradually," agreed Wells Fargo Bank chief US economist Sung Won Sohn.  

"The economy is doing a bit better right now, to be sure, but there are still some concerns about geopolitics, employment and the price of oil," he added.  

"So I think the Federal Reserve does not want to rock the boat and is using a gradual, slow approach in raising the interest rate."  

With inflationary pressures tame, there was no need for the central bank to speed up interest-rate increases, he said.  

In a related action, the central bank also raised the discount rate -- at which the central bank can lend to commercial banks -- to 3.0 percent from 2.75 percent.  

That decision was taken at the request of most of the 12 Federal Reserve Bank presidents, but not the leaders of banks in Dallas and San Francisco, Guatieri noted.  

"That might suggest a couple of the banks did not strongly see the need for a raise in interest rates," he said, with productivity gains likely to keep inflation tame.  

It also may indicate a shift in sentiment towards a pause in the cycle of rising interest rates "at some point," Guatieri said.  

djw/rl  
   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPDUS | economy | bank | rates newseries   PUBAgence France Presse   ANDocument AFPR000020041110e0ba00g7e  



 HDFed meets, US  interest rate  rise a near certainty     BYDJW     WC482 words   PD10 November 2004   ET17:44   SNAgence France Presse   SCAFPR   LAEnglish   CYCopyright Agence France-Presse, 2004 All reproduction and presentation rights reserved.  
   LPWASHINGTON, Nov 10 (AFP) -  

US Federal Reserve policymakers, heartened by a burst of new jobs in October, appeared certain to raise key interest rates Wednesday for the fourth time in a row.  
   TDFederal Reserve chairman Alan Greenspan and his colleagues on the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) were to release a statement explaining the decision at about 2:15 pm (1915 GMT).  

Economists and traders agreed the central bank would announce a quarter-point rise in the federal funds target rate, which banks charge each other overnight, to 2.0 percent from 1.75 percent.  

It would be the fourth consecutive meeting at which policymakers have increased the rate.  

Greenspan seems determined to steadily withdraw the easy-money stimulus, injected as the economy took a series of blows from the September 11, 2001 attacks to a deflationary menace and an oil shock.  

Until June this year, the federal funds rate, which commercial banks charge each other overnight, had been at a 1958 low of 1.0 percent.  

An unclear result from the November 2 vote or weak October employment figures might have prevented the Federal Reserve from tightening, said Merrill Lynch senior economist Kathleen Bostjancic.  

"However, neither of these events unfolded, so the Fed funds futures market is appropriately priced with a near 100 percent probability of a 25 basis point tightening," she said.  

Markets are now debating when the series of rate increases will come to a halt.  

Speculation of a pause in December was curtailed by a government report last week showing the US economy churned out a seven-month record of 337,000 jobs in October.  

"However, we still expect the Fed to not only skip the December meeting, due in part to year-end liquidity reasons, but also to hold at 2.0 percent," said Bostjancic.  

Federal Reserve policymakers will likely deliver a brighter economic assessment in light of the jobs report, said BMO Financial Group senior economist Sal Guatieri.  

"We expect the Fed to move again in December," Guatieri said.  

"If we see some weaker economic numbers the Fed could pause but we don't think the data will be soft enough to put the Fed on hold as early as December," he said.  

CIBC World Markets senior economist Avery Shenfeld agreed the jobs growth buttressed Greenspan's case for a quarter point rate hike now, and made a December increase likely.  

"Nervous markets might price in more after that, but let's wait until we see how growth and employment bear up under the fourth quarter's energy price drag before concluding that the Fed has more work to do in 2005."  

The US economy expanded at a slower-than-expected 3.7 percent annual pace in the third quarter of 2004, latest data show, up from 3.3 percent in the second quarter.  

djw/mac  
   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPDUS | economy | rates sched | lead   PUBAgence France Presse   ANDocument AFPR000020041110e0ba00ci3  



 HDUS poised to raise key short-term rate to 2.0 percent     BYDJW     WC370 words   PD10 November 2004   ET12:02   SNAgence France Presse   SCAFPR   LAEnglish   CYCopyright Agence France-Presse, 2004 All reproduction and presentation rights reserved.  
   LPWASHINGTON, Nov 10 (AFP) -  

US President George W. Bush's clear election win and a resurgent US job market all but guarantee an interest rate rise Wednesday, analysts said.  
   TDThe big debate, however, is whether short term rates go up again in December.  

Economists and traders agreed that a quarter-point rise in the federal funds target rate -- to 2.0 percent from 1.75 percent -- was set for the Federal Reserve policymakers' meeting Wednesday.  

US Federal Reserve chairman Alan Greenspan and his fellow policymakers are expected to release a statement explaining the decision at about 2.15 pm (1915 GMT).  

An unclear result from the November 2 vote or weak October employment figures might have prevented the Federal Reserve from tightening, said Merrill Lynch senior economist Kathleen Bostjancic.  

"However, neither of these events unfolded, so the Fed funds futures market is appropriately priced with a near 100 percent probability of a 25 basis point tightening," she said.  

Markets are debating when a series of rate increases, which have lifted the federal funds target rate to 1.75 percent from 1.0 percent, will come to a halt.  

Mounting speculation of a pause in December was curtailed by a government report Friday showing the US economy churned out a seven-month record of 337,000 jobs in October.  

"However, we still expect the Fed to not only skip the December meeting, due in part to year-end liquidity reasons, but also to hold at 2.0 percent," said Bostjancic.  

CIBC World Markets senior economist Avery Shenfeld said the jobs growth would buttress Greenspan's case for a quarter point rate hike now, and made a December increase likely.  

"Nervous markets might price in more after that, but let's wait until we see how growth and employment bear up under the fourth quarter's energy price drag before concluding that the Fed has more work to do in 2005."  

The US economy expanded at a slower-than-expected 3.7 percent annual pace in the third quarter of 2004, latest data show. It represented an acceleration, however, from 3.3 percent in the second quarter.  

djw/fgf  
   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPDUS | economy | rates   PUBAgence France Presse   ANDocument AFPR000020041110e0ba0063l  



 HDEmerging debt-Prices static after Fed, Ecuador up.      BYBy Walter Brandimarte      WC393 words   PD10 November 2004   ET22:48   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2004 Reuters Limited   
   LPNEW YORK, Nov 10 (Reuters) - Emerging bond prices traded in ranges on Wednesday after the Federal Reserve raised U.S. interest rates as expected and stuck to its usual script in its post-meeting statement, promising "measured" tightening of monetary policy and saying inflation is contained.   

But Ecuadorean bonds rebounded on news that opposition parties gave up plans to impeach President Lucio Gutierrez after failing to get enough votes for a hearing.   
   TDThe Fed as expected raised its base interest rate by 0.25 percentage point to 2 percent and reassured investors that the next few rate hikes will continue to be moderate.   

Before the statement, some experts feared a sharp recovery in the U.S. jobs market would give the Fed reason to be more aggressive, hurting rate-sensitive emerging markets with a tighter monetary policy.   

After the central bank decision, emerging bond prices were just a tad higher from the previous day, following the performance of U.S. Treasuries, analysts said.   

Brazil's Global 40 bonds , considered an emerging market benchmark, climbed 0.187 in price to bid 111.875 with a yield of 9.231 percent.   

Spreads between emerging bonds and Treasuries, a gauge of investors' appetite for risk, compressed 3 basis points to 392 over Treasuries as total returns edged down 0.08 percent, according to JP Morgan's EMBI+ index.   

WORST-CASE SCENARIO POSTPONED IN ECUADOR?   

Ecuadorean bonds outperformed the market as many analysts didn't expect the opposition attempt to remove President Gutierrez would end so soon.   

Total returns for Ecuador jumped 1.16 percent according to the EMBI+, the biggest rise among its emerging market peers, while the nation's spread over Treasuries tightened 27 basis points to 723 points.   

"The expectation was that the opposition would not have enough votes to impeach Gutierrez, but they might have votes to start the process," said Siobhan Manning, Latin American debt strategist with Caboto at New York.   

But she remarked that the President's victory does not mean his problems are over, as other impeachment attempts may take place.   

"There are also worries about the fiscal side and the relationship with the IMF. The worst-case scenario was avoided in the short-term but the worst isn't avoided in the medium-term," she said.    
   NSmntdbt : National Government Debt/Bond Markets | e1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets   REbraz : Brazil | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | ecu : Ecuador | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | lamz : Latin America | samz : South America | usa : United States | namz : North America   IPCN2K:BR | N2K:CDV | N2K:D | N2K:DBT | N2K:DNP | N2K:E | N2K:EC | N2K:EMRG | N2K:EMRG/DBT | N2K:FUN | N2K:GVD | N2K:LATAM | N2K:M | N2K:RNP | N2K:U   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument LBA0000020041110e0ba00l2h  



 CLMTuesday's Markets   HDInvestors Map Year-End Plans With Eye on Fed   BYBy Peter A. McKay    WC560 words   PD10 November 2004   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGC1   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 2004, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LPWITH AN INTEREST-RATE increase today by the Federal Reserve almost certain, investors have already begun mapping out their game plan for the rest of the year.

What they see, many Wall Street pros say, is a mixed bag that probably will include one more rate increase in December, weakening oil prices and adequate corporate profits. The picture is mostly favorable for the stock market -- but with a few important caveats.
   TDFirst, investors must still digest today's announcement by the Fed's policy-making committee, scheduled for 2:15 p.m. Eastern time. The central bank has long been expected to raise its target rate for overnight interbank loans -- a bellwether for short-term rates -- by a quarter percentage point to 2%. Traders will closely examine the Fed's commentary for signs that another increase is on the way in December. That scenario has gained increasing credence on Wall Street since Friday, when the federal government announced surprising employment growth, including 337,000 new jobs in October.

Since then, interest-rate futures markets in Chicago have "priced in" an 85% likelihood of another quarter-point interest-rate increase at the Fed's December meeting. But, if there is a disappointing jobs report in the interim, that reasoning could evaporate just as quickly as it became the conventional wisdom following Friday's report, said Don Wilson, chief executive of DRW Trading Group in Chicago. "December is not a done deal by any stretch," he said.

In a recent report, Ned Davis Research examined the significance of today's expected rate increase, the Fed's fourth since June. The firm found mixed results following similar spates of rising rates since 1920, with the Dow down an average 3% about eight months after the fourth straight rate increase.

With the central-bank decision looming yesterday, the trading session was sluggish. The Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 4.94 points, or 0.05%, to 10386.37, ending a four-day winning streak.

The Standard &Poor's 500-stock average fell 0.07%, or 0.81 point, to 1164.08. The Nasdaq Composite Index, rose 0.2%, or 4.08 points, to 2043.33, but will respond toda1y to disappointing earnings announced after yesterday's close by technology bellwether Cisco Systems.

Helping to stanch stock declines was a drop by crude oil to $47.37 a barrel, off $1.72, or 3.5%, at the New York Mercantile Exchange.

Outside the U.S., stocks fell in dollar terms. The Dow Jones World Stock Index, excluding U.S. stocks, fell 0.26%, or 0.41 points, to 159.94.

In major U.S. market action:

Stocks were mixed. There were 1,901 advancing issues and 1,365 decliners on the Big Board, where 1.4 billion shares changed hands.

Bonds fell. The 10-year Treasury note slipped 1/32, or 31 cents, for each $1,000 invested. The yield rose to 4.222%. The 30-year bond fell 5/32 to yield 4.943%.

The dollar rose. Against the dollar, the euro fell to $1.2898, compared with $1.2918 in late New York trading. Against the Japanese currency, the dollar rose to 105.74 yen from 105.56 yen. 

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   NSm11 : Equity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | e1202 : Interest Rates | gpersf : Personal Finance | gvtre : Treasury Department | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m131 : Money Markets | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | mntdbt : National Government Debt/Bond Markets | nsum : News Digest | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | glife : Living/Lifestyle | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | gvexe : Executive Branch | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | niwe : IWE Filter   REusa : United States | jap : Japan | asiaz : Asia | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America   IPCTRE | USG | STT | JPY | NND | TPX | USD | MIM | PMK | TFR | TPT   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument J000000020041110e0ba0003t  



 HDBush Policy: Talk a Strong Dollar but Let It Slide --- Tacitly Approved, Decline In Currency Aids Trade Gap While U.S. Works on Yuan   BYBy Greg Ip    WC1,492 words   PD10 November 2004   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGA1   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 2004, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LPThe Bush administration, which officially professes a "strong dollar" policy, is quietly acceding to the dollar's slide on global currency markets.

Indeed, government and Federal Reserve officials and many private economists believe the economic fundamentals point to a lower dollar. But Washington doesn't want to encourage the decline or say anything that might undermine confidence in the dollar and risk a disruptive avalanche of dollar-selling.
   TDThe result has been a delicate minuet, in which administration officials speak gingerly if at all about the dollar and instead devote their energy toward another, related issue: China's currency, the yuan. China pegs the yuan to the dollar and the U.S. wants China to let it float, which would almost certainly cause it to rise against the dollar. Without yuan appreciation, U.S. officials fear that currencies in Europe and Japan would bear the brunt of the dollar's depreciation, hurting their exports and restraining their already-weak economies.

European Central Bank President Jean-Claude Trichet this week called the euro's rise "brutal," and Japanese officials have hinted they may resume large-scale intervention to hold the yen's value down.

Since Election Day, the dollar has fallen 1.4% to an all-time low against the euro. Its value against all its trading partners' currencies has declined 1.2%, and it is now down 6% since May. The dollar is down 8% against the euro in the same period and 7% against the yen.

The catalyst for its most recent decline was President George W. Bush's re-election last Tuesday. Investors perceive his policies as likely to aggravate the steep U.S. budget deficit.

The dollar's weakness comes against some otherwise favorable news: strong job growth and expectations of higher interest rates. The Fed is expected today to lift its short-term interest-rate target to 2% from 1.75%.

This week, Treasury spokesman Rob Nichols reiterated that the administration supports a strong dollar. Yet in October, the U.S. joined the six other major industrial countries in asserting that "exchange rates should reflect economic fundamentals," though they opposed excessive "volatility."

The fundamentals almost certainly would result in a lower U.S. dollar. Americans don't earn or save enough to finance all their consumption and investment needs plus the federal deficit. Thus, they must borrow from foreigners to finance the shortfall. That has driven the U.S. current-account deficit, the gap on all trade and investment income between the U.S. and the rest of the world, to more than an estimated $600 billion this year, or 5.4% of the gross domestic product. That must be financed by selling stocks, bonds or other IOUs to foreigners. But as foreigners accumulate dollar assets, they may lose their appetite for more, leading to downward pressure on the dollar. The prospect of continued budget deficits, several economists say, has fueled that concern.

U.S. and foreign policy makers agree there are three main ways the current-account deficit could be narrowed. The U.S. could save more, such as by cutting its budget deficit. Foreign countries could grow faster, increasing their appetite for U.S. exports. Or the dollar could fall. That would make U.S. exports cheaper in foreign markets, enabling it to sell more, while making imports costlier, decreasing U.S. consumption of them. Together, that would narrow the trade deficit and thus the current-account deficit. European and U.S. policy makers mostly advocate the first two methods, but also realize that the lower dollar will play a part. A lower dollar, by raising import prices, could raise inflation and thus force the Fed to raise interest rates more, curbing U.S. consumption of domestically produced and imported goods.

The awkward task facing the administration is letting the dollar play its part without appearing to encourage it. Despite its strong-dollar rhetoric, the administration has never intervened in currency markets, and its primary dollar-related activity has been to pressure China to let the yuan rise against the dollar.

The Bush administration's subtle dollar policy is a marked contrast to the approach of other U.S. administrations. The Reagan administration orchestrated concerted global efforts first to push the dollar down, then to brake its fall. The first Bush administration, in its early years, actively bought and sold dollars to try to keep the currency's value within a government-prescribed range. The Clinton administration intervened, albeit much less often, and initially talked the dollar down before Treasury Secretary Robert Rubin initiated the "strong dollar" mantra in 1995.

In the late 1990s a higher dollar made some economic sense because it helped contain inflationary pressures as the U.S. economy boomed. But after 2000, when the boom turned to bust and fears of inflation switched to fears of deflation, the economic rationale for a higher dollar faded. The present Mr. Bush's first Treasury secretary, Paul O'Neill, tried to modify the strong dollar mantra by saying the U.S. wanted a dollar that reflected strong fundamentals. He retreated after those comments triggered a flurry of selling.

Mr. O'Neill's successor, John Snow, is once again intoning the "strong dollar" mantra, but saying and doing nothing to prevent the dollar's slide. Administration officials want the market to set the dollar in response to fundamental factors, and they broadly share the consensus view that the fundamentals entail a decline.

"During the election year, the White House . . . wanted particularly to avoid saying or doing anything where they could be blamed for a decline in the dollar and its consequences," says Fred Bergsten, director of the Institute for International Economics. "They were quite pleased with the dollar stability through this year." With the election over now, "the interesting question is whether they will . . . indicate their acceptance of this renewed market decline."

That seems unlikely. While officials think a stampede of dollar selling that could force the U.S. to raise interest rates to lure investors back is unlikely, they don't want to encourage the possibility by saying they approve of a drop.

U.S. officials have some sympathy for the concerns recently expressed by European officials on the impact of the rising euro. One reason they want China to let the yuan float is to avoid having Europe and Japan bear all the pain of a shrinking U.S. trade deficit, which could stoke protectionism.

A study by the Paris-based Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development underlined this risk. Presented last spring to a group of member-country policy makers, it found that a 22% decline in the dollar against all other currencies would shrink the current-account deficit by about one-fifth and modestly trim growth in countries that use the euro and in Japan. But to achieve the same deficit reduction with China's currency still fixed would require the dollar to fall much more against the euro and yen, pushing Japan deeper into deflation and requiring much lower interest rates in the euro area to absorb the impact.

Morris Goldstein, an economist at the Institute for International Economics, says that getting any noticeable reduction in the current-account deficit requires a substantial decline in the dollar against Asian currencies. Several Asian countries fix their currencies to the dollar to maintain their competitive position with respect to China. "A few percent here or there won't do a thing," he says. The trade deficit with China alone is headed for an estimated $150 billion this year. He says, "The administration has a lot of look-busy programs with China on the currency front, but none of it is amounting to much."

John Taylor, Treasury undersecretary for international affairs, last week said the administration's level of engagement with China on the exchange rate is "unprecedented." In recent weeks, Chinese officials have suggested that deliberations on exchange-rate moves are reaching fruition. To their usual statements emphasizing exchange-rate "stability" -- long a euphemism for the dollar peg -- central bankers have begun adding the need for flexibility.

In his speech last week, Mr. Taylor cited "three types of economic policies" that will address the current account: boosting U.S. savings via tax incentives for households and a lower budget deficit; pressing for structural reforms to fuel growth in Latin America, Europe and Japan; and pressing for "market-based flexible exchange rates." Those remarks implied that the current account will be addressed through a combination of lower U.S. deficits, higher foreign growth and dollar adjustment.

---

Neil King Jr. contributed to this article.

---

Journal Link: Find out what the dollar's weakness means for individuals, companies and the economy, in a plus-or-minus rundown at WSJ.com/JournalLinks. 

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e52 : Euro Zone/Currency | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | c13 : Regulation/Government Policy | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1202 : Interest Rates | e512 : Physical Trade | gvexe : Executive Branch | gvtre : Treasury Department | npag : Page-One Story | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e51 : Trade/External Payments | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter   REchina : China | jap : Japan | usa : United States | asiaz : Asia | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America   IPCDRT | EMB | EXE | TRE | USG | NND | MHD | PGO | TPT   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument J000000020041110e0ba0003q  



 HDUS rate rise locked in for Wednesday     BYDJW     WC555 words   PD9 November 2004   ET17:32   SNAgence France Presse   SCAFPR   LAEnglish   CYCopyright Agence France-Presse, 2004 All reproduction and presentation rights reserved.  
   LPWASHINGTON, Nov 9 (AFP) -  

The unexpected boom in US job creation in October has locked in an interest rate rise Wednesday and will likely encourage another tightening in December, analysts said.  
   TDEconomists said a quarter-point rise in the federal funds target rate -- to 2.0 percent from 1.75 percent -- was all but set for the next Federal Reserve policymakers' meeting.  

US Federal Reserve chairman Alan Greenspan and his colleagues gather Wednesday to ponder the outlook for interest rates. A statement explaining the decision is due about 2.15 pm (1915 GMT).  

The big question is when a series of rate increases, which has lifted the federal funds target rate to 1.75 percent from an "embarrassingly low" 1.0 percent -- will come to a halt.  

Mounting speculation of a pause in December was curtailed by a government report Friday showing the US economy churned out a seven-month record of 337,000 jobs in October.  

The news is likely to persuade Greenspan he can tighten interest rates without stalling economic activity, analysts said.  

"For now, Greenspan can point to the newest jobs evidence to buttress the case for a quarter point rate hike in November, and with only one more month of data, a final quarter point hike now looks to be in the cards for December," said CIBC World Markets senior economist Avery Shenfeld.  

"Nervous markets might price in more after that, but let's wait until we see how growth and employment bear up under the fourth quarter's energy price drag before concluding that the Fed has more work to do in 2005."  

The debate in the markets now centered on whether the Federal Reserve would pause the tightening cycle in December, said Lehman Brothers analyst Ethan Harris.  

"Clearly the strong payroll report increases the odds of a December rate hike," he said.  

"However, both the overall data flow and Fed rhetoric argue that the Fed is entering a new data dependent phase."  

Harris suggested the US economy had slowed to a pace in line with its long-term trend.  

The US economy expanded at a slower-than-expected 3.7 percent annual pace in the third quarter of 2004, latest data show. It represented an acceleration, however, from 3.3 percent in the second quarter.  

"Looking ahead, the economy is more likely to slow further than to reaccelerate," Harris argued.  

"Unless oil prices fall sharply, the oil shock will continue to weigh on growth in the next several quarters and the stimulus from zero-percent loans, cash-out mortgage refinancing and last year's tax cut will continue to fade," he warned.  

"The economy continues to behave as though it needs unusually easy credit conditions just to achieve trend-like growth."  

Banc One chief economist Diane Swonk said the jobs rebound had swung the chances of a December increase from about even to modestly in favor.  

But the Federal Reserve would be more willing to take a break in 2005, she forecast.  

"Once they pass the two percent threshold -- not that that is by any means a target -- it gets them back into more respectable territory relative to their peers abroad," Swonk said.  

"One of the issues facing the Fed right now is that rates are almost embarrassingly low."  

djw/mdl  
   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPDUS | economy | rates sched   PUBAgence France Presse   ANDocument AFPR000020041109e0b900913  



 CLMCredit Markets   HDColombia Plans Peso Offering --- Issue Aims to Tap Demand For Local-Currency Risk; U.S. Treasury Prices Weaken   BYBy Mike Esterl Dow Jones Newswires    WC873 words   PD9 November 2004   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGC5   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 2004, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LPNEW YORK -- Colombia is tapping overseas capital markets with a twist, targeting foreign investors eager to take on local-currency risk in a bond offering that could be mimicked by other Latin American countries.

The offering, which is being underwritten by Citigroup and is expected to price tomorrow, is trying to capitalize on growing investor wariness about the U.S. currency, which has weakened world-wide amid ballooning trade and fiscal deficits.
   TDIn addition, Latin American governments are eager to replace huge stocks of dollar- and euro-denominated debts that have left them vulnerable to balance-of-payments crises in the past when their own currencies weakened suddenly. "It is the holy grail for a lot of these countries," said Nicholas Field, a fund manager in London at WestAM, which holds about $750 million in emerging-markets debt.

Market participants have been speculating that Brazil is preparing a possible foreign bond offering that would be denominated in reals. "I think you're certainly going to see more of these," said Robert Sanchez-Dahl, a fund manager in Pittsburgh at Federated Investors, which holds about $650 million in emerging-markets bonds.

Colombia is expected to issue the equivalent of $250 million in global bonds that will be denominated in pesos and mature in 2010. If the issue succeeds, Colombia would be only the second Latin American country to place debt abroad in its own currency, following a similar offering by Uruguay last year.

Colombia's peso has been one of the currencies to benefit from the weakening in the dollar, appreciating about 9% against the U.S. currency so far in 2004, even as local authorities intervene in the foreign-exchange market to curb the peso's gains.

Some foreign investors who take positions in emerging markets increasingly have been dipping their toes in local markets instead of relying exclusively on the dollar- and euro-denominated bonds that trade in New York and London.

The Colombian government likely will have to pay a premium to get the deal done, amid a long history of currency devaluations in emerging markets. Initial market estimates are that the bond will yield between 12% and 12.5%. When Colombia sold $500 million in 10-year, dollar-denominated bonds in September, the debt was priced to yield 8.5%.

Treasurys

Treasurys weakened for a second session, largely on dealer selling related to this week's refunding auctions. The Treasury is slated today to sell $15 billion in five-year notes, with $14 billion of 10-year notes tomorrow.

Government-securities dealers often try to cheapen issues ahead of auctions by selling them. Complicating matters this week, tomorrow's sale takes place shortly before Federal Reserve policy makers are expected to announce a monetary policy decision.

Yesterday. the Treasury found good demand for $22 billion in new three-year notes. Two measures of demand, indirect bids and the bid-to-cover ratio, recorded strong showings.

At 4 p.m., the benchmark 10-year note was down 10/32 point, or $3.125 per $1,000 face value, at 100 8/32. Its yield rose to 4.218% from 4.179% Friday, as yields move inversely to prices. The 30-year bond was down 16/32 point at 106 15/32 to yield 4.932%, up from 4.901% Friday. 


 
                            AUCTION RESULTS 
 
  Here are the details of yesterday's treasury auctions. All bids are 
awarded at a single price at the market-clearing yield. Rates are determined 
by the difference between that price and the face value. 
 
                      13-WEEK AND 26-WEEK BILLS 
 
                                  13-Week                 26-Week 
 
Applications ................  $39,704,358,000        $34,882,953,000 
Accepted bids ...............  $21,000,280,000        $19,000,183,000 
Accepted noncomp ............   $1,445,258,000           $895,453,000 
Accepted frgn non ...........     $300,000,000                     $0 
Auction price (Rate) ........ 99.488750(2.045%)      98.863722(2.260%) 
Coupon equivalent ...........           2.084%                 2.318% 
Bids at market yield ........           15.87%                 83.45% 
Cusip number ................        912795RZ6              912795SN2 
 
  Both issues are dated Nov. 12. The 13-week bills mature Feb. 10, 2005, and 
the 26-week bills mature May 12, 2005. 
 
                             THREE-YEAR NOTES 
 
Applications .................................... $49,171,634,000 
Accepted bids ................................... $22,000,084,000 
Bids at market-clearing yield accepted ..........          71.02% 
Accepted noncompetitively .......................    $357,634,000 
" foreign noncompetitively ......................    $100,000,000 
Auction price (Rate) ............................       99.744019 
Interest rate ...................................              3% 
Cusip number ....................................       912828AN0 
 
  The notes are dated Nov. 15 and mature Nov. 15, 2007. 
   

Corporate Bonds

Investment-grade debt issuance surged as borrowers rushed to tap the market after key events last week and before markets enter the quiet phase that is typical late in each year. More than $5.8 billion in deals were brought yesterday and an additional $3 billion were slated for today.

Yesterday's largest was BellSouth's $2 billion, three-part offering. In addition, the Ford Motor Credit unit of Ford Motor sold $800 million of floating-rate notes, and Kraft Foods offered a $750 million, five-year issue.

---

Ramez Mikdashi and Kellie Geressy contributed to this article. 

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   COfrdmo : Ford Motor Company   INi35101 : Passenger Cars | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i7902 : Telecommunications | i7902101 : Local Telephone Services | i351 : Motor Vehicles | i79021 : Wired Telecommunications Services | iaut : Automobiles   NSm12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mntdbt : National Government Debt/Bond Markets | c172 : Corporate Debt Instruments | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e1202 : Interest Rates | gvtre : Treasury Department | m131 : Money Markets | c17 : Funding/Capital | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | gvexe : Executive Branch | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter   REcol : Colombia | usa : United States | usga : Georgia (US) | usil : Illinois | usmi : Michigan | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | lamz : Latin America | namz : North America | samz : South America | usc : Midwest U.S. | uss : Southern U.S.   IPCCMR | DJCB | DJCS | EWR | TRE | USG | CYC | NCY | NND | TPX | UTI | CRD | MIM   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument J000000020041109e0b90000o  
 Page 1 of 1      2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.


 

 Page 1      2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.

