 


 HDANALYSIS-Corporate Europe less exposed to risk of dollar drop.      BYBy Lincoln Feast      WC787 words   PD22 September 2004   ET18:16   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2004 Reuters Limited   
   LPLONDON, Sept 22 (Reuters) - Fears that another sharp dollar fall could crimp company earnings may be overstated, with European exporters better-protected against the risk of currency fluctuations than they were a year ago.   

A 1 percent fall in the dollar to a fresh 1-month low against the euro after the Federal Reserve raised interest rates on Tuesday, was a timely reminder of risks facing Europe's hard-pressed companies and the stuttering economy.   
   TDThe Fed's cautious assessment of the U.S. economy underlined concern about the impact of a renewed slide in the dollar which, after a two-year decline, scored a record low against the euro in February this year, drawing squeals of pain from European exporters.   

"Corporates in general are once bitten, twice shy," said Alain Stangroome, director at HSBC Bank's Financial and Risk Advisory in London.   

"Last year's move may have got rid of some complacency and corporates have taken some precautions. Some corporates may have set a slightly higher level for hedging so they should be slightly better prepared this year than they were last year for any new rise in the euro."   

The dollar fell as much as 20 percent against the euro between January 2003 and February 2004. The rapid drop fuelled fears Europe would miss out on the global economic recovery as its exporters struggled with higher costs and lower returns.   

Exporters have almost single handedly steered European - and especially euro zone - economies on the recovery path over the past year with domestic consumer spending slack.   

THREAT OVERBLOWN   

But some strategists say the impact of dollar weakness on European profits is often overstated.   

"The sensitivity of earnings from European listed companies to the currencies is not as important as one might think," said Rolf Elgeti, an equity and debt strategist at ABN AMRO.   

While many companies with currency exposure hedge their risks with financial tools, a large number of big European firms also benefit from natural hedges with both cost and revenue streams outside the euro zone.   

Carmakers such as DaimlerChrysler, for example, both make and sell vehicles in the United States which helps to iron out the vacillations of currency moves.   

"Where it does hurt is for specialised niche players in the small and mid-cap area, because those guys are often not hedged (either financially or naturally)", Elgeti said.   

Movements in share prices sparked by exchange rate volatility represented a trading opportunity, albeit a high risk one, Elgeti said.   

"These things tend to happen about three times a year - the dollar moves one way or the other and everybody gets very excited ... If you're quick enough to play these things, then it's worth doing it."   

STEADY AS SHE GOES, FOR NOW   

Depending on your point of view, markets have enjoyed or endured a period of uncommon stability in the euro/dollar rate over the past four months.   

Peak to trough, the range has been just 4 percent and the net change since early June is zero, with the euro still hovering just below $1.23.   

Overall, strategists expect the exchange rate to remain roughly the same over the next 12 months, although the range of forecasts is wide.   

The median forecast for 62 strategists polled by Reuters earlier this month was for a rate of $1.25 at the end of September 2005, within a range of $1.12 and $1.40.   

"The longer that the euro stays up at these levels, above $1.20-plus, the more firms will get used to this situation and find ways to cope with it," said Steve Barrow, chief currency strategist at Bear Stearns in London.   

Mike Turner, head of global strategy at Aberdeen Asset Management expects the dollar to hold firm in the coming months, as the U.S. economy overcomes a recent soft patch and the Fed makes at least one further rate rise beyond Tuesday's 25 basis point hike to 1.75 percent.   

"Once we get into the New Year though, and the U.S. starts to slow down, then loss of interest rate support will create a lot of problems for the dollar."   

The hope in the euro zone is that by then the domestic economy might lend the export sector some support and counter the impact of a weaker greenback.   

"In Europe, there is a little bit of optimism creeping in that economic growth is broadening out and beginning to fire on more than just one cylinder," Turner said.   

"The dollar/euro story is not on the immediate horizon, it's one for a couple of months down the road."   

(Additional reporting by Justyna Pawlak).    
   NSm132 : Foreign Exchange News | e1202 : Interest Rates | nanl : Analysis | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types   REeurz : Europe | eecz : European Union Countries | weurz : Western Europe | uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | namz : North America   IPCN2K:D | N2K:E | N2K:EUROPE | N2K:FRX | N2K:M | N2K:RBR | N2K:RICCODE:DCXGn.DE | N2K:STX | N2K:TRD | N2K:U | N2K:WEU | N2K:XX   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument LBA0000020040922e09m00ahz  



 HDANALYSTS' VIEW-Europe reacts to Fed rate decision.      WC620 words   PD22 September 2004   ET09:07   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2004 Reuters Limited   
   LPLONDON, Sept 22 (Reuters) - Following are European analysts' reactions on Wednesday after the U.S. Federal Reserve raised its federal funds rate by a quarter point to 1.75 percent.   

In a statement the Fed said the economy was regaining momentum and that inflation pressures and expectations had eased in recent months despite a rise in energy costs. It also said policy accommodation could be removed at a pace that was likely to be measured.   
   TDADRIAN FOSTER, CHIEF CURRENCY STRATEGIST, DRESDNER KLEINWORT WASSERSTEIN, LONDON   

"The Fed's statement was much as expected. It was dovish on inflation but indicated the policy of modest rate hikes would continue. Really, there was nothing new. I think the sell-off in the dollar was technically-inspired and had more to do with market positioning and the triggering of stops in euro/dollar above $1.23."   

PETER MUELLER, INTEREST RATE STRATEGIST, COMMERZBANK, FRANKFURT   

"The market was looking at this very dovish inflation statement by the Fed so we got a good boost on the long end of the market.   

"On the short end we had no reaction as the Fed didn't signal an immediate break in the rate hike cycle. We can first expect a pause in the rate hike cycle in the December meeting, which is priced in.   

"The most surprising thing was the dovish comments from the Fed on the inflation side."   

NIELS CHRISTENSEN, CURRENCY STRATEGIST, SOCIETE GENERALE, PARIS   

"The inflation comment is supporting the view that the gradual tightening of monetary policy will not accelerate and might even take a small pause when we come towards the end of the year. The market is divided as to whether the next hike comes at the next meeting in November. If not in November then in December and then a much slower pace during next year for rate hikes. A fed funds rate of 2.25 is not priced in before March next year."   

JOHAN JAVEUS, FX STRATEGIST AT SEB, STOCKHOLM   

"The Fed seems to have offered a softer tone on inflation compared with last time. It is saying inflation is less of a problem and the outlook is benign. The statement emphasised the Fed can take a gradual approach in raising interest rates and it was also translated into a belief there is less need for interest rate hikes going forward. The impact on currency markets from this is a weaker dollar. We still think the Fed will deliver one more rate hike, possibly in December, but we don't know how fast they need to raise rates to go back to neutral levels."   

PAUL MACKEL, CURRENCY STRATEGIST, ABN AMRO IN LONDON   

"It was mixed bag for the dollar. But if you look at key phrases the Fed is not saying anything new. They were pretty upbeat on growth and still signalling that more tightening could come. They also spoke about softer inflation but this is not new information. "The market took them as bearish and decided to sell the dollar. Speculative players are a bit shorter dollar now but not massively. But I am not convinced that the euro should be going much higher."   

JITZES NOORMAN, FIXED INCOME STRATEGIST, RABOBANK, UTRECHT   

"The most important thing is the Fed's statement and this didn't contain any surprises. Given the recent comments from the Fed it is clear that the measured pace of monetary tightening will continue. The Fed said that the economy is doing okay and we still expect a 25 basis point rate hike in November. The market is pricing in a 25 basis point increase over the next two meetings so the risk is for bond yields to go higher."    
   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | nanl : Analysis | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCN2K:D | N2K:DBT | N2K:E | N2K:EUROPE | N2K:FED | N2K:FRX | N2K:GB | N2K:GVD | N2K:INT | N2K:M | N2K:NAT | N2K:U | N2K:US | N2K:WEU | N2K:XX   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument LBA0000020040922e09m0056l  



 HDFed Moves Rekindle Interest in Saving --- Banks Push New Types of CDs That Let Holders Benefit From Rising Rates; Danger of Locking In   BYBy Ruth Simon and Jane J. Kim    WC1,276 words   PD22 September 2004   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGD1   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 2004, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LPTHE FEDERAL Reserve Board raised its key short-term interest rate a quarter-percentage point yesterday, providing welcome news to savers who have seen their returns shrivel in recent years. The Fed's third increase in three months raised the benchmark federal funds -- the rate banks charge each other for overnight loans -- to 1.75%.

Lenders say the series of gradual rate increases, which began in June, has prompted a surge in interest in certificates of deposit and other savings vehicles. To capitalize on the increased demand, many lenders are introducing new types of CDs designed for a rising-rate environment. These include so-called bump-up CDs, step-up CDs and index-linked CDs -- all of which are designed to share some of the upside of rising rates or an improving stock market.
   TDLast week, Bank of America Corp. rolled out a new "Opt-Up" CD that allows savers to bump up the interest rate once during the CD's 30-month term, if interest rates rise. Washington Mutual Inc., meanwhile, last month rolled out a new "Indexed" CD whose yields adjust quarterly based on changes in the rate on three-month Treasury bills.

Lenders are also beefing up their CD marketing. Wachovia Corp. will soon begin advertising special rates of 2% and 3%, respectively, on its 10-month and 30-month CDs. This week, PNC Bank, a unit of PNC Financial Services Group Inc., began asking its sales force to start promoting its "Convertible CD," which allows consumers to roll the money from an existing CD into a new higher-rate CD with a term of at least 12 months.

For years, safety-conscious investors have relied on CDs as a way to lock in interest rates, typically for periods of three months to five years. Rates were generally higher than money markets because the money was tied up for a fixed period. But interest in the products waned as rates fell: The average rates on one-year CDs plunged to a record low of 1.04% in July 2003, from 5.67% in September 2000, according to Bankrate.com. At banks and thrifts, total deposits in CDs under $100,000 fell to $842.6 billion, from $1.03 trillion, during this same period, according to the Federal Reserve.

Higher CD sales are good news for banks, which are looking to capture inexpensive deposits and keep customers from defecting to rival financial service firms. But many of the rate-sensitive CDs have features that can reduce their appeal, including limits on how much savers can benefit from rising rates.

With more rate increases likely, some investors might be better off in a bank money-market deposit account, which allows investors to tap their funds quickly without penalty and carries rates that will adjust within weeks or months of a rate hike.

Those accounts, which have been averaging 0.91%, should hit 1.25% within a few months -- the first time rates have exceeded 1% since November 2002 -- according to iMoneynet.com. Higher yields can already be found on money-market mutual funds, which currently average about 0.97%. Yields should exceed rates on three-month CDs by the end of October and could reach parity with one-year CDs by mid-2005, says Peter Crane, vice president of iMoneynet.com.

Citizens Banking Corp., for example, is promoting a special rate of 2.5% on its money markets -- which is about 1% higher than rates on its standard money market -- with a minimum investment of $10,000.

Still, the recent rise in rates has breathed new life into the CD market. Total deposits in CDs at banks and thrifts increased to $793.9 billion as of Sept. 6, up from $788.3 billion in June, according to the Federal Reserve, the first increase since early 2001, when total assets hit $1.05 trillion.

At Washington Mutual, "the CD category has turned very strong in the last two or three months" as interest rates began to rise, says Doug Marshall, senior vice president of deposit strategy. U.S. Bancorp says it has seen the first real growth in CDs since at least April 2001.

National City Corp., meanwhile, has gained about $500 million in net new CD deposits from March through the end of July, bringing the total size of its CD portfolio to $13.5 billion, says Mike Whalen, senior vice president in the bank's consumer and small business division. Before that, the bank had seen outflows as customers moved money from maturing CDs into money-market accounts.

Other lenders are offering CDs aimed at investors worried about inflation. In March, LaSalle Bank and Standard Federal Bank, both units of the Netherlands' ABN Amro Holding NV, introduced a floating-rate CD. Monthly coupon payments are adjusted based on the year-to-year percentage change in the consumer-price index. Since the beginning of the year, LaSalle and Standard Federal have issued $700 million in floating-rate CDs and other inflation-linked products, says Patrick Kelly, a managing director at LaSalle Broker Dealer Services.

As with any new products, it is important for consumers to understand the terms, since they may give up some upside in exchange for flexibility. For instance, Capital One Financial Corp.'s "No-Regrets" CD, launched in January, lets investors adjust their rate once during the term to receive higher yields if rates move up, without penalty and without extending the terms. But rates are also typically a half-percentage point lower than standard CDs.

Rates on Bank of America's "Opt-Up" CD carry the same yield as the bank's standard CD, but any upside is limited, in part, because savers get only half of any actual increase in rates.

Many of the products can have other drawbacks as well. Required minimum deposits may be higher than for regular CDs. Investors may also be required to put in an additional investment or extend the terms of the CD to take advantage of higher rates. For instance, with "conversion" CDs, savers typically opt into a new CD, so their money may be locked up with the bank for longer.

Sometimes the most competitive CD rates can be found at smaller banks that are aggressively courting deposits. Savers can also create a ladder by buying CDs of different maturities. That allows them to capture the higher rates of longer-term CDs, while still taking advantage of rising rates. As shorter-term CDs mature, they can plough that money back into higher-yielding CDs with longer maturities.

Some banks are offering CD-type yields on accounts that have the flexibility of a money-market fund. PNC Bank, for example, has a "Ready Access CD," a fixed-rate CD that lets consumers withdraw funds without penalties after seven days. You will also find higher rates at online banks. ING Direct, a unit of ING Groep NV, for example, is offering rates as high as 2.5% on one-year CDs.

--- 


                           Savings Options 
   

Lenders are launching a variety of new certificates of deposit aimed at savers concerned about rising rates:

-- Bump-Up CDs: If rates jump, consumers have the option to increase their rate -- usually one time -- during the life of the CD.

-- Step-Up CDs: Rates increase, or "step up," to higher rates at predetermined levels.

-- Index-Linked CDs: Rates are tied to an index -- say, the consumer-price index -- and share in its gains. 

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   COncnbco : Bank of America Corporation   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | gpersf : Personal Finance | gvexe : Executive Branch | m131 : Money Markets | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | gcat : Political/General News | glife : Living/Lifestyle | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REusa : United States | usnc : North Carolina | usoh : Ohio | namz : North America | usc : Midwest U.S. | uss : Southern U.S.   IPCBKG | CMR | EWR | FED | USG | FIN | NND | TPX | PSJ | TPT   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument J000000020040922e09m0003s  



 SEThe Economy   HDFed Lifts Rates a Quarter Point, As Economy Gains `Traction' --- Policy Makers Say Fears Of Inflation Have Eased During Recent Months   BYBy John D. McKinnon and Greg Ip    WC1,143 words   PD22 September 2004   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGA2   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 2004, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LPWASHINGTON -- The Federal Reserve raised its key short-term interest rate by a quarter of a percentage point to 1.75%, saying the U.S. economy "appears to have regained some traction" after "moderating earlier this year."

The Fed said nothing to dissuade financial markets from anticipating another quarter-point rate increase before year end.
   TDThe Fed's campaign to lift interest rates is intended not to slow the economy, but to raise rates from emergency lows in order to avoid creating an inflation problem in the future. The target on the federal-funds rate, at which banks lend to each other overnight, was chopped to a 45-year-low of 1% in mid-2003 from 6.5% at the start of 200. With much advance warning, the Fed began lifting rates in June.

The economy now appears to have pulled out of a "soft patch" -- as Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan has put it -- that was largely the result of higher oil prices. After substantial hesitation, employers are hiring, adding more than one million jobs since the low point in August 2003, though payrolls remain one million shy of the March 2001 peak. Following disappointing second-quarter growth of 2.8%, the U.S. economy now is expanding at better than 3.5%, perhaps as strong as 4%, private economists estimate.

But recent declines in long-term bond yields suggest the bond market may not be as optimistic. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note fell to 4.05% yesterday, well below June's 4.87%; yields fall as bond prices rise. Stocks rallied. The Dow Jones Industrial Average ended at 10244.93, up 40.04, most of that after the Fed spoke.

Inflation readings have been tame. The Fed's preferred index -- the price index of personal-consumption expenditures excluding food and energy -- went from 1% September to 1.5% in March, but has stabilized in the 1% to 2% zone with which officials appear comfortable.

"Despite the rise in energy prices," the Fed said yesterday, "inflation and inflation expectations have eased in recent months."

The Fed's objective is to lift the rate to 2% or 2.5%, and then -- depending on the ebb and flow of economic data -- to move toward "neutral," a level somewhere between 3% and 5% that neither restrains nor stimulates economic growth.

In its statement, the Fed dropped August's optimistic phrase that the economy "appears poised to resume a stronger pace of expansion." Former Fed Governor Laurence Meyer, said, "The more cautious tone is consistent with the notion that after they get a bit higher they could well take a pause."

The federal-funds futures market, where the market places bets on future Fed moves, expects the Fed to boost the rate to 2% at its Nov. 10 meeting and then to pause. The market expects the rate to be at 2.5% by mid-2005.

"The market seems to be expecting a pause in December, and I would tend to agree," said Peter Hooper, U.S. economist for Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. "Given how low inflation has been, I think it will take a pickup in inflation to get a move in December." But a pause in December probably would be only a brief one, he added.

The Fed again said it "perceives the upside and downside risks to . . . sustainable growth and price stability for the next few quarters" to be "roughly equal." It said it still anticipates raising rates at "a pace that is likely to be measured," while indicating it might alter its plans if economic conditions warrant.

As part of the effect on consumers, about 20 banks yesterday changed their prime rate, which governs a variety of consumer and business loans, to 4.75% from 4.50%. The Wall Street Journal's published prime rate, which is used as a benchmark, won't be raised to that new level until 23, or 75% of the top 30 banks, raise their rate. That most likely will happen by today.

The Fed's move countered a widespread belief that the Fed doesn't change interest rates just before a presidential election. This is, however, the closest to a presidential election that Mr. Greenspan has moved rates in his 17 years at the Fed. The closest he came previously was a Sept. 4, 1992, rate cut.

The Bush administration and most Republicans haven't criticized the recent rate increases -- in part because they come after a long period of low rates and in part because Republicans describe rising rates as a sign of the Fed's confidence in the economy. Still, Rep. Jim Saxton, a New Jersey Republican and vice chairman of the congressional Joint Economic Committee, said he hoped the Fed is finished tightening monetary policy for the year. He said market-price indicators of inflation "are well under control, and so long as this is the case there is no pressing need for further Fed action in the near future."

The Fed rate increase probably won't be followed soon by the European Central Bank or the Bank of Japan.

The ECB, which sets rates for the countries that share the euro, continues to keep its key rate at 2%. Officials increasingly are concerned about upside risks to inflation, but they still fear that acting too hastily to boost rates could spoil a long-hoped-for economic recovery from a three-year slump. During the past year, exports of goods to faster-growing regions of the world -- such as the U.S. and China -- have boosted growth rates. But companies have been slow to transform their success abroad into investment at home, and unemployment in the 12-nation currency bloc remains stuck at 9%. Economists believe the ECB will keep rates on hold at least until early next year, unless rises in energy prices begin to quickly push up prices of other consumer goods.

The Fed move does call attention in Japan to when and how the Bank of Japan will end its three-year-old policy of holding interest rates near zero and flooding money markets with cash. Japan's economy is now showing signs of life and price declines are starting to bottom out. The strength of the U.S. economy is a factor for the Japanese central bank: Any sign of slowing U.S. imports could delay the inevitable rate increase in Japan.

---

G. Thomas Sims in Frankfurt and Martin Fackler in Tokyo contributed to this article.

---

Journal Link: WSJ.com subscribers can read the full text of the Federal Reserve statement on interest rates, at WSJ.com/JournalLinks 

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | ecat : Economic News | gvexe : Executive Branch | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCFED | USG | NND | ECN | LMJ | TPT   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument J000000020040922e09m0003e  



 CLMTuesday's Markets   HDStocks, Bonds Rally On Fed's Assessment Of Nation's Economy   BYBy E.S. Browning    WC696 words   PD22 September 2004   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGC1   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 2004, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LPSTOCKS AND BONDS hit new milestones after the Federal Reserve raised its target short-term rate as expected and offered an upbeat assessment of the economy.

The Standard &Poor's 500-stock index and the Nasdaq Composite Index finished at their highest levels in more than two months. The bond rally also extended, sending the yield of the 10-year Treasury note, which moves opposite to price, down to 4.047% -- its lowest finish since April 1.
   TDThe Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 40.04 points, or 0.39%, to 10244.93.

Crude-oil futures jumped 75 cents to a one-month high of $47.10 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange, but investors shrugged off that news and focused on the Fed.

"The markets put an enormous amount of faith and credibility in the Federal Reserve, and when the Fed says things are progressing," said Andy Brooks, head of stock trading at Baltimore mutual-fund firm T. Rowe Price, "that is very reassuring." The Fed comment was a special relief, since a spate of earnings warnings from prominent companies such as Intel and Colgate-Palmolive have put stock investors through "a rough couple of weeks," Mr. Brooks said.

The Dow industrial average was held back by weakness in component stocks such as Citigroup, Altria and 3M. The Dow still hasn't returned to the two-month high of 10342.79 hit on Sept. 7. But the sister-index Dow Jones Transportation Average hit another five-year high of 3271.22, up 0.89%, or 28.89 points. And the Dow Jones Utility Average hit a two-year high of 295.85, up 0.39%, or 1.15 points.

In the statement accompanying its decision, the Fed offered an upbeat picture, saying "growth appears to have regained some traction," and that "inflation expectations have eased." It said the pace of further rate increases would continue to be "measured."

The statement reinforced hopes that the economy will sustain moderate growth without serious inflation or sharp interest-rate increases through the end of this year.

Still, the Fed rate increase was the third since the end of June, and historically, stocks often have suffered after the Fed raised rates for a third time. But even though the Fed's short-term target rate is up 75% from its 46-year low of 1%, it remains unusually low and well below consumer inflation.

A variety of banks including KeyCorp and Wells Fargo quickly raised their prime lending rates, which govern a variety of consumer and business loans, to 4.75% from 4.5%.

The Fed doesn't hold another interest-rate policy meeting until Nov. 10, just after the presidential election. Investors widely expect the Fed to raise its target rate another quarter-point, to 2%, either then or at the following meeting, in December. They expect that, at some point, the central bank will continue raising rates next year. Housing starts were stronger than expected in August.

The S&P 500 rose 0.63%, or 7.10 points, to 1129.30, now up 1.6% this year. The 1130 level has been one at which sellers emerged in the past, and traders will be closely watching whether the index now can break through that level.

The Nasdaq Composite Index advanced 0.69%, or 13.11 points, to 1921.18. Technology stocks have been recovering from a summer swoon, but the tech-heavy index still is down 4% this year.

Gold rose $3 to $408.30 an ounce, a three-week high. The dollar hit a one-month low against the euro.

In major U.S. market action:

Bonds gained. The 10-year Treasury note rose 3/32, or 93.75 cents for each $1,000 invested. The 30-year bond was up 11/32 to yield 4.843%.

The dollar weakened. Late in New York, it traded at 109.67 yen, down from 109.87, while the euro rose against the dollar to $1.2338 from $1.2168. 

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   NSm11 : Equity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | e1202 : Interest Rates | gpersf : Personal Finance | gvtre : Treasury Department | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m131 : Money Markets | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | mntdbt : National Government Debt/Bond Markets | nsum : News Digest | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | glife : Living/Lifestyle | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | gvexe : Executive Branch | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | niwe : IWE Filter   REjap : Japan | usa : United States | asiaz : Asia | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America   IPCPIC | TRE | USG | STT | JPY | NND | TPX | USD | MIM | PMK | TFR | TPT   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument J000000020040922e09m0002s  



 SEFRONT PAGE - FIRST SECTION   HDFed adds a quarter point and signals more to come.   BYBy ANDREW BALLS    WC439 words   PD22 September 2004   SNFinancial Times   SCFTFT   EDUSA Ed2   PGPage 1   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2004 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPThe US Federal Reserve yesterday raised its target primary interest rate a quarter point to 1.75 per cent and signalled it expects to continue raising rates at a "measured" pace.

The policymaking Federal Open Market Committee left its accompanying statement largely unchanged from August, saying that output growth "appears to have regained some traction" after "moderating earlier in the year partly in response to the rise in energy prices".
   TDThe statement, which echoed recent testimony by Alan Greenspan, Fed chairman, also noted that inflation and inflation expectations had declined recently, in spite of the high oil price.

Yesterday's move was widely expected, and reaction was muted. "Growth has recovered, much as they expected, and inflation has fallen, much as they expected," said Peter Hooper, chief US economist at Deutsche Bank. "They have not changed the statement and they gave no indication that a pause is needed any time soon."

The Fed has taken care to communicate its message to the market and lay out the expected course of increases to return rates to a more neutral level at a "pace that is likely to be measured", widely seen as meaning quarter-point moves. The federal funds rate is seen as too low to be consistent with stable inflation over time. But officials stress that rate moves will be determined by economic data.

Futures markets are pricing in a further increase when the Fed meets in November but are betting it will leave rates on hold when it meets close to Christmas before raising them again in February. The market is pricing in about a 3 per cent rate by the end of next year, the lower end of the range for neutral rates commonly seen as 3-5 per cent.

Recent economic data have supported the Fed's case that the economy is bouncing back after a soft patch at the end of the second quarter, though the August retail sales data were mixed.

The high oil price is seen as a risk, but the Fed has no evidence so far that the oil price has knocked expansion fundamentally off course. Recent weaker job data are also a concern, but the Fed remains confident the labour market has turned the corner and income growth will be strong enough to support growing consumer spending. Yesterday's statement noted "labour market conditions have improved modestly" since August. OECD sees recovery, Page 7 Comment &Analysis, Page 11 Editorial Comment, Page 12 Short view, Page 15 Rate rise reassures, Page 28 
   RF20040922U201.078   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | npag : Page-One Story | ncat : Content Types   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTFT000020040922e09m0005p  



 SETHE AMERICAS   HDFed raises rate by quarter point to 1.75% MONETARY POLICY.   BYBy ANDREW BALLS    WC477 words   PD22 September 2004   SNFinancial Times   SCFTFT   EDLondon Ed3   PGPage 8   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2004 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPThe Federal Reserve yesterday raised its target interest rate a quarter point to 1.75 per cent and signalled that it remained on course for further increases.

The policymaking Federal Open Market Committee left its accompanying statement largely unchanged, saying that output growth "appears to have regained some traction" after "moderating earlier in the year partly in response to the rise in energy prices".
   TDThe committee repeated that it expected to continue to raise the federal funds rate to a more neutral level "at a pace that is likely to be measured".

Yesterday's move was widely expected and market reaction was muted.

Futures markets are pricing in a further rate increase when the Fed meets in November but are betting the central bank will leave rates on hold when it meets just before Christmas - when trading is likely to be thin - before raising them in February.

The FOMC statement echoed recent testimony by Alan Greenspan, Fed chairman, who gave cautiously optimistic testimony before Congress this month.

Recent economic data have supported the Fed's case that the economy is bouncing back after a soft patch at the end of the second quarter, though the August retail sales data were mixed.

The high oil price is seen as a risk but the Fed has seen no evidence so far that the oil price has knocked the expansion fundamentally off course.

Recent weaker job data are also a concern, but the central bank remains confident that the labour market has turned the corner this year and that income growth will grow strongly enough to support growing consumer spending. The Fed, in its statement yesterday, noted that "labour market conditions have improved modestly" since its August meeting.

The decline in inflation and inflation expectations in recent months, in spite of the high oil price, makes it easier for the central bank to pay close attention to the risks that the high oil price poses for growth.

The Fed has taken great care to communicate its message to the market this year and lay out the expected course of increases to return rates to a more neutral level at a "measured pace", widely interpreted to mean quarter-point moves.

The federal funds rate is seen as too low to be consistent with stable inflation over time. But officials have stressed that the timing of rate moves will be determined by the incoming economic data.

Since June, before the Fed started raising rates, the yield on the 10-year Treasury note has fallen from almost 4.9 per cent to below 4.1. This is seen at the Fed as reflecting the improved outlook for inflation, after fears that the Fed had fallen "behind the curve" and would Shave to take aggressive action. 
   RF20040922L308.016   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTFT000020040922e09m0005f  



 SEFT MARKETS   HDFed has traders on tenterhooks GLOBAL OVERVIEW.   BYBy CHRISTOPHER BROWN-HUMES    WC386 words   PD22 September 2004   SNFinancial Times   SCFTFT   EDAsia Ed1   PGPage 26   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2004 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPInvestors were reluctant to place big bets in the equity markets yesterday as they awaited an expected rise in US interest rates and further word on the prospects for the US economy.

But the uncertainty was not enough to stop the London market pushing to a new two-year high, with the FTSE 100 index finally closing above the 4,600 mark for the first time since July 2002. The Eurotop 300 index also moved back above the 1000 mark that it breached on Friday. Wall Street traded in a narrow range ahead of the Federal Reserve's rates announcement at 2.15pm local time.
   TDAnything other than a 25 basis point increase in the Fed funds rate to 1.75 per cent - the third rise this year - would be a surprise for markets.

It was the content and tone of the accompanying statement that was awaited nervously, given the continuing uncertainty over the extent to which growth in the US is slowing. Alan Greenspan, chairman of the Federal Reserve, has already suggested that the economy is regaining "traction" after a summer "soft spot". For the latest news and reaction to the Federal Reserve's interest rate decision see: www.ft.com/ markets

ING Financial Markets agreed. "We believe that with lower gasoline prices and income growth accelerating, consumer activity will pick up again in the coming months and this will prompt the Fed to tighten monetary policy further. We expect the Fed funds rate to end 2005 at 3.5 per cent," it said.

Oil prices continued to climb on concerns about lower US inventory levels. US benchmark crude futures rose 45 cents to Dollars 46.80 in morning trade in New York. The share prices of a number of European oil companies benefited, helping to drive the main indices higher. BP, the largest UK company by market capitalisation, rose 1.8 per cent while Shell was 2.3 per cent higher.

Japanese shares were flat ahead of the US rates decision. Shares in Indonesia closed at a record high, after the market-friendly outcome of the country's presidential election.

Currency trading was light but the Swiss franc pushed higher on talk of a large Swiss bank selling dollars. 
   RF20040922J126.063   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | m11 : Equity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTFT000020040922e09m0000w  



 SETHE AMERICAS   HDUS home-building gains pace in August.   BYBy CHRISTOPHER SWANN    WC388 words   PD22 September 2004   SNFinancial Times   SCFTFT   EDAsia Ed1   PGPage 4   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2004 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPThe pace of new home building in the US accelerated in August, helped by lower mortgage interest rates and buoyant consumer confidence.

Houses were being built in August at an annualised pace of 2m, up 0.6 per cent on July. There was also an upward revision of the previous month's figure to 1.988m.
   TDThe new figures underlined that the Federal Reserve's decisions to raise interest rates in June and August had yet to take their toll on the housing market. But economists continued to expect a cooling of the market, although they said the timing of any slowdown was hard to predict.

Although short-term interest rates have been rising, long rates fell in August amid evidence that economic growth had lost momentum and inflationary pressures were ebbing. This appears to have boosted the housing market.

"Given mortgage rates remain near this year's low, starts and home sales should stay strong for a couple of quarters yet, as will house price inflation," said Ian Morris, US economist at HSBC in New York. "The hurricanes will also boost future starts a bit too."

Homebuilders may also have helped offset the impact of Federal Reserve interest rate rises by offering loans to homebuyers at below the market rate.

Data earlier this month from the National Association of Home Builders suggested that confidence in the industry remained high.

Although new home sales have moderated slightly from their peak in May - when sales were running at an annualised rate of 1.283m - demand for homes has held up better than many economists had forecast.

Most believe that a further slowdown in demand is unavoidable, however.

"Higher mortgage rates are inevitable, as the economy's expansion continues and the Fed works to forestall future inflation," said Celia Chen, an analyst at Economy.com. "If builders respond rationally, then housing starts will slow. We expect the slowing in homebuilding to be most pronounced in this year's fourth quarter."

In spite of the dramatic surge in house prices over the past five years, economists believe that any absolute falls in values will be confined to regional hotspots, such as the east coast between Boston and Washington DC and and selected cities on the west coast. 
   RF20040922J104.056   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1120 : Housing Starts/Construction Figures | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTFT000020040922e09m0000m  



 HDFT.com site : US Fed raises interest rates to 1.75%.   BYChristopher Swann in Washington    WC512 words   PD22 September 2004   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2004 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPThe Federal Reserve has again raised interest rates by 25 basis points, taking the Fed funds rate to 1.75 per cent.

The Fed has now raised rates in each of its last three meetings.
   TDThe move was widely expected and most economists believe that rates will reach 2 per cent by the end of the year.

But the economic impact of Fed tightening has been partly offset in recent months by a fall in long term interest rates. Since June the yield on the 10-year bond has fallen from 4.87 to 4.08 per cent - reflecting market concerns about the strength of the economy.

"It has been very unusual for bonds to rally at the start of a Fed rate tightening cycle," said Gerrard MacDonell, bond economist at JP Morgan Fleming Asset Managment. "We usually only see it when the market sniffs the end of a rate cycle."

The Federal Reserve has characterised the second quarter of the year as a soft spot but suggested that the economy appeared to be gaining some traction. Mr MacDonell said he was sceptical about this claim and said that growth remained moderate and close to trend.

There was further evidence yesterday from housing market figures that the impact of rising short term rates is being neutralised by lower long term rates.

The pace of new home building accelerated in August, helped by the retreat of mortgage interest rates and buoyant consumer confidence.During the month houses were being built at an annualised pace of 2 million units, 0.6 per cent up on July. There was also an upward revision of the previous month's figure to 1.988m."Given mortgage rates remain near this year's low, starts and home sales should stay strong for a couple of quarters yet, as will house price inflation," said Ian Morris, US economist at HSBC in New York. "The hurricanes will also boost future starts a bit too."Homebuilders may also have helped offset the impact of interest rate rises from the Federal Reserve by offering loans to homebuyers at below the market rate.Data earlier this month from the National Association of Home Builders suggested that confidence in the industry remained high,Although new home sales have moderated slightly from their peak in May - when sales were running at an annualised rate of 1,283,000 - demand for homes has held up better than many economists had forecast. Most believe that a further slowdown in demand is unavoidable, however."Higher mortgage rates are inevitable, as the economy's expansion continues and the Fed works to forestall future inflation," said Celia Chen, an analyst at Economy.com. "If builders respond rationally, then housing starts will slow. We expect the slowing in homebuilding to be most pronounced in this year's fourth quarter."Despite the dramatic surge in house prices over the past five years, economists believe that any absolute falls in values will be confined to regional hotspots 
   RF37950408   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTCOM00020040922e09m0002k  



 HDFT.com site : Market Overview: Disappointing corporate news weighs.   BYDave Shellock    WC383 words   PD22 September 2004   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2004 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPGlobal equity markets took a turn for the worse on Wednesday as disappointing corporate news and stubbornly high oil prices outweighed the cautiously optimistic view of the US economy delivered by the Federal Reserve when it raised its target interest rate by a quarter-point to 1.75 per cent on Tuesday.

By midday, the Dow Jones Industrial Average was down more than 100 points, or 1.1 per cent, while the technology-heavy Nasdaq Composite index was 1.4 per cent lower.
   TDMorgan Stanley, the US investment bank, saw its shares fall sharply after its third-quarter earnings fell short of expectations, while network equipment maker Cisco Systems was dented by a downgrade from Deutsche Bank.

European stocks showed a little more resilience than their US counterparts but the FTSE Eurotop 300 index still ended with a loss of 0.6 per cent at 996.72.

Oil prices rose sharply after the latest US crude inventories data showed that the disruption caused by Hurricane Ivan had eroded fuel supplies. Nymex October futures were above $48 a barrel at midday, within striking distance of the all-time high of $49.40 hit last month.

The markets may have got what they wanted from the Fed on Tuesday but there was still uncertainty about the timing of the next tightening.

"Currently, the futures market is expecting rates to end the year at 2 per cent and surveys suggest that this is the level that economists generally expect as well," said James Knightley, economist at ING Financial Markets.

"However, in our view there is a good chance that they will raise rates by 25 basis points at both the November and December FOMC meetings to leave the Fed funds target rate at 2.25 per cent by year-end."

The dollar rallied as investors brushed aside comments by the Fed that inflationary pressures had eased, which had prompted some speculation that the central bank would try to hold back from further rate increases.

But Treasury bond prices remained supported by the inflation comments, with the yield on ten-year paper hovering around 4 per cent, a five-month low.

Gold gave back all of Tuesday's gains as the dollar staged its recovery. 
   RF37967811   COciscos : Cisco Systems Inc   INi3302 : Computers/Electronics   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | m11 : Equity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTCOM00020040923e09m00012  



 HDFed Boosts Rates By Quarter Point As Anticipated --- Policy Makers Say Economy Seems to Have Regained Traction After Moderating     BYBy David Wessel and Greg Ip     WC645 words   PD22 September 2004   SNThe Asian Wall Street Journal   SCAWSJ   PGA1   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2004 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. To see the edition in which this article appeared, click here  http://awsj.com.hk/factiva-ns
   LPWASHINGTON -- The Federal Reserve raised its key short-term interest rate by a quarter percentage point to 1.75%, saying the U.S. economy "appears to have regained some traction" after "moderating earlier this year."  

The Fed's campaign to lift interest rates is intended not to slow the economy, but to lift rates from emergency lows so that the Fed doesn't create an inflation problem in the future.  
   TDThe target on the federal-funds rate, the rate banks charge each other for overnight loans, was chopped from 6.5% at the beginning of 2001 to a 45-year-low of 1% in mid-2003. With much advance warning, the Fed lifted the rate to 1.25% in June and 1.5% in August.  

In the past few months, the economy appears to have pulled out of a "soft patch," as Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan put it, that was driven largely by higher oil prices. After a disappointing second-quarter growth of 2.8% (measured at an annual rate and compared to the prior quarter), the U.S. economy is now growing at better than 3.5% and perhaps as strong as 4% economists estimate. They forecast similar growth for the fourth quarter, though recent declines in long-term bond yields suggest the bond market isn't as optimistic.  

After substantial hesitation, employers are hiring again. They've added more than one million jobs since the August 2003 low point, though payrolls remain one million shy of the March 2001 peak. Inflation readings have been tame. By the Fed's preferred index -- the price index of personal consumption expenditure, excluding food and energy -- inflation went from 1% last September to 1.5% in March, but has stabilized in the 1% to 2% zone with which officials appear comfortable.  

In a brief statement, the Fed said that "after moderating earlier this year partly in response to the substantial rise in energy prices, output growth appears to have regained some traction, and labor-market conditions have improved modestly." It added, "Despite the rise in energy prices, inflation and inflation expectations have eased in recent months."  

The Fed gave no hint that it has changed its near-term plans, repeating its previous statement that it "perceives the upside and downside risks to . . . sustainable growth and price stability for the next few quarters" to be "roughly equal." It reiterated that it still anticipates raising rates at "a pace that likely to be measured," while indicating it might move more quickly if economic conditions warrant.  

The Fed's objective is to get the funds rate to "neutral," a level that neither holds back nor stimulates growth. Officials indicate that probably lies between 3% and 5%. But once the rate gets to 2% or 2.5%, officials are likely to let the ebb and flow of economic data govern their moves.  

Before the Fed's announcement yesterday afternoon, the federal-funds futures market, where the market places bets on future Fed moves, expected the Fed to boost rates another quarter-percentag e point to 2% this year -- most likely at its Nov. 10 meeting -- and to raise rates to 2.5% by mid 2005.  

The Fed move does call attention in Japan to when and how the Bank of Japan will end of its three-year-old policy of holding interest rates near zero and flooding money markets with cash. Japan's economy is now showing signs of life and price declines are starting to bottom out. The strength of the U.S. economy is a factor for the Japanese central bank: Any sign of slowing U.S. imports would likely delay the inevitable rate increase in Japan.  
   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | ecat : Economic News | gvexe : Executive Branch | m131 : Money Markets | npag : Page-One Story | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCFED | USG | NND | TPX | PGO | TPT   PUBDow Jones & Company Inc.   ANDocument AWSJ000020040921e09m0001b  



 HDHawaii's three major banks raise prime rates     WC203 words   PD22 September 2004   ET04:03   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2004.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.  
   LPHONOLULU (AP) - Hawaii's top three banks are raising their prime lending rates a quarter point in response to the Federal Reserve's move Tuesday to boost short-term interest rates.  

Bank of Hawaii, First Hawaiian Bank and American Savings Bank announced they are raising their rates from 4.5 percent to 4.75 percent.  
   TDFirst Hawaiian said its new rate took effective Tuesday, while Bank of Hawaii and American Savings said their new rates goes in effect Wednesday. The prime rate is the amount banks charge for many short-term business and consumer loans.  

The banks increased their prime lending rates after the Federal Reserve boosted a key short-term interest rate by one-quarter percentage point, marking the third increase this year. It was part of a gradual process to wean the economy from extraordinarily low rates that are no longer viewed as necessary to keep the economy afloat.  

The Federal Reserve increased the target for the federal funds rate to 1.75 percent, from 1.5 percent. The funds rate is the interest banks charge each other on overnight loans and is the Fed's primary tool for influencing economic activity.  
   RF7   COfsthwn : First Hawaiian Bank | wshmut : Washington Mutual Inc | banqnp : BNP Paribas SA   INi814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | i81403 : Savings Institutions | i81501 : Credit Types/Services | i8150103 : Mortgages/Real Estate Credit | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | ushi : Hawaii | namz : North America | usw : Western U.S.   IPCtagpf0wcat | selhihi- | catn   IPDAP State Wires: Hawaii | US State/Regional | HI Prime Rate | D858DR0O1   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020040922e09m0020l  



 HDKellner questions whether more rate rises are warranted      WC149 words   PD22 September 2004   SNAFX Asia   SCAFXASI   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2004, AFX Asia. All rights reserved.   
   LPKellner questions whether more rate rises are warranted NEW YORK (XFN-ASIA) -- Irwin Kellner, chief economist of CBS MarketWatch, took issue with the Federal Reserve indicating Tuesday that more interest rate increases may lie ahead. "The big question I have is whether they are warranted in view of the fact, as the Fed acknowledges, inflation has slowed down and economic growth is not what it was in the past," Kellner said. Among the reasons he's skeptical, he said, is the decline in retail sales for 3 out of the last 5 months, a growing stockpile of unsold goods, and minimal inflation. "That is not necessarily a good sign for those who are looking for a strengthening of economic activity," Kellner said. Listen to the complete interview. This story was supplied by CBSMarketWatch. For further information see www. cbsmarketwatch.com. MMMM    
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBXinhua Financial Network Limited   ANDocument AFXASI0020040921e09m009ye  



 HDFed lifts interest rates; fed funds rate hiked to 1.75% - UPDATE 8     WC793 words   PD22 September 2004   SNAFX Asia   SCAFXASI   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2004, AFX Asia. All rights reserved.  
   LPFed lifts interest rates; fed funds rate hiked to 1.75% - UPDATE 8 WASHINGTON (XFN-ASIA) -- The Federal Reserve raised its key overnight interest rate by one-quarter of percentage point Tuesday and signaled that more rate hikes are likely in coming months. Fed policy-makers voted to increase the federal funds rate to 1.75 percent from 1.50 percent in the third straight meeting at which a quarter-point hike was adopted. Predictable bankers "They did what everybody expected," said Anne Owen, a former Fed staffer and now an economics professor at Hamilton College. Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan and his colleagues on the Federal Open Market Committee said that, even after these three rate hikes, U.S. monetary policy remains accommodative. "With underlying inflation expected to be relatively low, the FOMC believes that policy accommodation can be removed at a pace that is likely to be measured," the statement said.  
   TD Economists labeled those words a signal that the Fed wants to raise rates further if economic conditions do not change significantly. "In other words, the funds rate at 1. 75 percent is still pushing growth higher, not restraining it, and there is no danger to the expansion in continuing to raise rates," said Steve Stanley, an economist at RBS Greenwich Capital. "All of this is consistent with the notion that the FOMC continues to believe that it will be able to tighten at a 'measured' pace," said Josh Shapiro, chief U.S. economist at MFR. "However, this will be dependent on evidence that the economy continues to grow at an adequate rate, and that there are no significant surprises ... on the core inflation front," he said in a written comment. "I think they are hinting there is going to be more to come," he continued, "although the language they use indicates that it may come very slowly." Getting more upbeat The Fed was more upbeat about the economy than in the central bank's previous policy statement in August, saying the economy "appears to have regained some traction, and labor market conditions have improved modestly." In August, the Fed said growth had moderated and the pace of improvement in labor markets had slowed. The Fed was also more positive about inflation this time around, saying Tuesday that despite high energy prices, "inflation and inflation expectations have eased in recent months." In August, the Fed said that prices were elevated, but a portion of that was attributable to transitory factors. The FOMC's vote to raise the fed funds rate by a quarter-point was unanimous. The Fed also raised the discount rate by a quarter-point, to 2.75 percent. Financial markets had fully priced in a quarter-point hike, with stocks extending modest gains after the Fed announcement. The market expects the FOMC to raise rates one more time, to bring the fed funds rate to 2 percent, at its next meeting on Nov. 10, just eight days after the U.S. presidential election, before skipping a rate hike in December. There is a debate among economists over whether the economy will be strong enough for the Fed to continue to hike rates next year. 'Smoking something' After the Fed's move, bond prices fell initially but quickly reversed course due to uncertainty about the pace of rate hikes after November. The dollar briefly rose, then continued its earlier tumble on the same view. Yet the equity market moved higher. Michael Panzner, an equity trader at Rabo Securities and the author of "The New Laws of the Stock Market Jungle," said equity markets are signaling a rebound, while the dollar and bond markets are expecting a slowdown. "If you ask me, it sounds like at least one group of investors has been smoking something," said Panzner. This is the last FOMC meeting before the presidential election on Nov. 2. In recent speeches, the central bankers have signaled they would raise rates at a slow and steady pace until rates get to a neutral level. Some Fed officials have put that level in the range of 4 percent. Shapiro, for one, said that he's forecasting a 2.25 percent fed funds target at year-end. The fed funds rate is the rate banks charge each other for overnight loans to meet the Fed's reserve requirements. The Fed targets the rate by buying and selling Treasurys through its Open Market Desk. Despite the Fed rate hikes, 10-year Treasury bond yields have dropped over the summer. Analysts said the market has a darker view than the Fed of U. S. economic prospects. This story was supplied by CBSMarketWatch. For further information see  www.cbsmarketwatch.com. MMMM   
   COrbsct : Royal Bank of Scotland Group PLC   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBXinhua Financial Network Limited   ANDocument AFXASI0020040921e09m00912  



 HDMore  interest rate  hikes coming, economists say     WC673 words   PD22 September 2004   SNAFX Asia   SCAFXASI   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2004, AFX Asia. All rights reserved.  
   LPMore interest rate hikes coming, economists say WASHINGTON (XFN-ASIA) -- After nudging rates to 1.75 percent, the Federal Reserve is signaling its intention to raise interest rates at most, if not all, upcoming meetings of the Federal Open Market Committee, economists said Tuesday. "The FOMC apparently plans to continue tightening monetary policy," said Michael Moran, chief economist for Daiwa Securities America. "The Fed will remain on this path of accommodation removal," said Rich Yamarone, head of research for Argus Research. The economists' reaction was far different from the one seen in the bond pits, where the yield on the 10-year note fell after the Fed announcement to 4.04 percent. "I don't think further rate hikes are baked into the cake at the moment," said Maryann Hurley, a bond analyst with D.A. Davidson.  
   TD Federal funds futures at the Chicago Board of Trade were pricing in slightly higher odds of rate hikes than before the announcement, but were still predicting three rate hikes in the next six meetings. By contrast, economists assert that the most likely course is for rate hikes at the majority of upcoming meetings, interspersed with an occasional pause. The FOMC meets eight times a year, with meetings scheduled for Nov. 10, Dec, 14, Feb. 2, March 22, May 3 and June 30. The December meeting could see no rate hike, in part because the Fed often prefers to forgo changing policy during the holiday shopping season, some economists suggest. "Expect another rate hike Nov. 10, with the Fed sitting out the Dec. 14 meeting in honor of the Christmas season," said Sherry Cooper, chief economist for BMO Nesbitt Burns. "That means the funds rate ends the year at 2 percent, but rates will be heading higher still in 2005, regardless of who wins the election." Those who expect a continued campaign of higher rates pointed to several sentences in the FOMC statement for support. First, the open market committee said growth had "regained some traction," a phrase Chairman Alan Greenspan used in congressional testimony earlier this month to debunk the idea that momentum in the economy had faltered. In addition, labor markets had "improved modestly," the FOMC said, a much rosier outlook than in August. Even with the rate hike Tuesday, the FOMC said its policy was still "accommodative," meaning policymakers figure they have a long way to go before their actions will begin to hold back the economy. "The Fed will aim for 3 percent to 4 percent federal funds" rate, Cooper added. The statement also repeated the promise that monetary stimulus could be removed at a "measured" pace. B Some economists said the FOMC left its options open in case the economic soft spot persists. There is no urgency to return rates to a more neutral level, because "inflation and inflationary expectations have eased in recent months, " according to the FOMC. "The statement leaves room for inaction in November if the data fail to thrive," said Ian Shepherdson, chief U.S. economist for High Frequency Economics. Politicians largely refrained from commenting on the Fed's decision. It is the last FOMC meeting before the election. In 1992, some presidential campaign advisers blamed Greenspan for George H.W. Bush's loss, saying he didn't cut rates fast enough to restore vigor to the economy. This time, there has been no public criticism of Greenspan from the White House or the Bush-Cheney campaign, even though he's led the Fed to three rate hikes just before the election. One exception on Tuesday was Rep. James Saxton, R-N.J., the vice chairman of the congressional Joint Economic Committee, who advised the central bank to hold off on further rate hikes. "Leading market price indicators of inflation are well under control, and so long as this is the case there is no pressing need for further Fed action in the near future," Saxton said. This story was supplied by CBSMarketWatch. For further information see  www.cbsmarketwatch.com. MMMM   
   COdaisec : Daiwa Securities Group Incorporated   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | i831 : Financial Investments | i83102 : Security Brokering/Dealing | ibnk : Banking/Credit | iinv : Investing/Securities   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBXinhua Financial Network Limited   ANDocument AFXASI0020040921e09m008kk  



 HDFed futures price in stronger odds for 2.25% Feb. rate      WC177 words   PD22 September 2004   SNAFX Asia   SCAFXASI   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2004, AFX Asia. All rights reserved.   
   LPFed futures price in stronger odds for 2.25% Feb. rate CHICAGO (XFN-ASIA) -- Short-term interest-rate futures contracts show market confidence that the Federal Reserve will follow up Tuesday's interest-rate hike with a quarter-point hike in November. The fed funds futures are priced for 92 percent odds that the Fed's target stands at 2 percent from 1.75 percent then. The market still sees only a scant chance for a rate hike December. Hedgers have increased the odds to 73 percent for a target rate as high as 2.25 percent at the conclusion of the central bank's Feb. 2 meeting. That's up from a slightly better than 60 percent chance priced in a week ago. The futures market is also pricing in some chance that Fed interest rates move to 2.5 percent by the conclusion of the Fed's June 30 meeting. This story was supplied by CBSMarketWatch. For further information see   www.cbsmarketwatch.com. MMMM    
   NSecat : Economic News | e1202 : Interest Rates | m15 : Derivative Securities | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBXinhua Financial Network Limited   ANDocument AFXASI0020040921e09m008kf  



 HDFed lifts interest rates; fed funds rate hiked to 1.75% - UPDATE 7     WC641 words   PD22 September 2004   SNAFX Asia   SCAFXASI   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2004, AFX Asia. All rights reserved.  
   LPFed lifts interest rates; fed funds rate hiked to 1.75% - UPDATE 7 WASHINGTON (XFN-ASIA) -- The Federal Reserve raised its key overnight interest rate by a quarter percentage point Tuesday and signaled that more rate hikes are likely in coming months. Fed policymakers voted to increase the fed funds rate to 1.75 percent from 1.50 percent, the third straight meeting at which a quarter-point hike was adopted. Federal Reserve chief Alan Greenspan and his colleagues on the Federal Open Market Committee said that even with these three rate hikes, U.S. monetary policy remains accommodative. "With underlying inflation expected to be relatively low, the FOMC believes that policy accommodation can be removed at a pace that is likely to be measured," the statement said. Economists said this was a signal that the Fed wants to raise rates further if economic conditions do not change significantly.  
   TD "In other words, the funds rate at 1.75 percent is still pushing growth higher, not restraining it, and there is no danger to the expansion in continuing to raise rates," said Steve Stanley, economist at RBS Greenwich Capital. "All of this is consistent with the notion that the FOMC continues to believe that it will be able to tighten at a 'measured' pace," said Josh Shapiro, chief U.S. economist at MFR Inc. "However, this will be dependent on evidence that the economy continues to grow at an adequate rate, and that there are no significant surprises (either to the upside or the downside) on the core inflation front," he said in a statement. The Fed was more upbeat about the economy than in the central bank's previous policy statement in August, saying the economy "appears to have regained some traction, and labor market conditions have improved modestly." In August, the Fed said growth had moderated and the pace of improvement in labor markets had slowed. The Fed also noted Tuesday that despite high energy prices, "inflation and inflation expectations have eased in recent months." The FOMC's vote to raise the fed funds rate by a quarter-point was unanimous. The Fed also raised the discount rate by a quarter percentage point, to 2.75 percent. Financial markets had fully priced in a quarter-point hike, with stocks extending modest gains. The market expects the FOMC to raise rates one more time, to a 2.0 percent fed funds rate, at its next meeting on Nov. 10 before skipping a rate hike in December. There is a debate among economists over whether the economy will be strong enough for the Fed to continue to hike rates next year. After the Fed's move, bond prices fell initially but quickly reversed course due to uncertainty about the pace of rate hikes after November. The dollar briefly rose, then continued its earlier tumble on the same view. The fed funds rate is the rate banks charge each other for overnight loans to meet the Fed's reserve requirements. The Fed targets the rate by buying and selling Treasurys through its Open Market Desk. This is the last FOMC meeting before the presidential election on Nov. 2. In recent speeches, the central bankers have signaled they would raise rates at a slow and steady pace until rates get to a neutral level. Some Fed officials have put that level in the range of 4.0 percent. Shapiro, for one, said that he's forecasting a 2.25 percent fed funds target at year-end. Despite the Fed rate hikes, 10-year Treasury bond yields have dropped over the summer. Analysts said the market has a darker view than the Fed of U.S. economic prospects. This story was supplied by CBSMarketWatch. For further information see  www.cbsmarketwatch.com. MMMM   
   COrbsct : Royal Bank of Scotland Group PLC   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBXinhua Financial Network Limited   ANDocument AFXASI0020040921e09m008c3  



 HDFed lifts interest rates; fed funds rate hiked to 1.75% - UPDATE 6     WC545 words   PD22 September 2004   SNAFX Asia   SCAFXASI   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2004, AFX Asia. All rights reserved.  
   LPFed lifts interest rates; fed funds rate hiked to 1.75% - UPDATE 6 WASHINGTON (XFN-ASIA) -- The Federal Reserve raised its key overnight interest rate by a quarter percentage point Tuesday and signaled that more rate hikes are likely in coming months. Fed policymakers voted to increase the fed funds rate to 1.75 percent from 1.50 percent, the third straight meeting at which a quarter-point hike was adopted. Federal Reserve chief Alan Greenspan and his colleagues on the Federal Open Market Committee said that even with these three rate hikes, U.S. monetary policy remains accommodative. "With underlying inflation expected to be relatively low, the FOMC believes that policy accommodation can be removed at a pace that is likely to be measured," the statement said. "All of this is consistent with the notion that the FOMC continues to believe that it will be able to tighten at a 'measured' pace," said Josh Shapiro, chief U.S. economist at MFR Inc.  
   TD "However, this will be dependent on evidence that the economy continues to grow at an adequate rate, and that there are no significant surprises (either to the upside or the downside) on the core inflation front," he said in a statement. The Fed was more upbeat about the economy than in the central bank's previous policy statement in August, saying the economy "appears to have regained some traction, and labor market conditions have improved modestly." The Fed also noted that despite high energy prices, "inflation and inflation exp ectations have eased in recent months." The FOMC's vote to raise the fed funds rate by a quarter-point was unanimous. The Fed also raised the discount rate by a quarter percentage point, to 2.75 percent. Financial markets had fully priced in a quarter-point hike, with stocks extending modest gains. Meanwhile, Treasurys traded moderately lower after the FOMC statement. The dollar rose against the yen and pared its losses against the euro. The fed funds rate is the rate banks charge each other for overnight loans to meet the Fed's reserve requirements. The Fed targets the rate by buying and selling Treasurys through its Open Market Desk. This is the last FOMC meeting before the presidential election on Nov. 2. The market expects the FOMC to raise rates one more time, to a 2.0 percent fed funds rate, at its next meeting on Nov. 10 before skipping a rate hike in December. The central bankers have signaled they would raise rates at a slow and steady pace until rates get to a neutral level. Some Fed officials have put that level in the range of 4.0 percent. There is a debate among economists over whether the economy will be strong enough for the Fed to continue to hike rates next year. Shapiro, for one, said that he's forecasting a 2.25 percent fed funds target at year-end. Despite the Fed rate hikes, 10-year Treasury bond yields have dropped over the summer. Analysts said the market has a darker view than the Fed of U.S. economic prospects. This story was supplied by CBSMarketWatch. For further information see  www.cbsmarketwatch.com. MMMM   
   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBXinhua Financial Network Limited   ANDocument AFXASI0020040921e09m0083q  



 HDFed lifts interest rates - UPDATE 5     WC423 words   PD22 September 2004   SNAFX Asia   SCAFXASI   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2004, AFX Asia. All rights reserved.  
   LPFed lifts interest rates - UPDATE 5 WASHINGTON (XFN-ASIA) - The Federal Reserve raised its key overnight interest rate by a quarter percentage point Tuesday and signaled that more rate hikes are likely in coming months. The Fed raised its Fed funds rate to 1.75 percent from 1.50 percent, the third straight meeting with a quarter-point rate hike. Federal Reserve chairman Alan Greenspan and his colleagues said that even with these three rate hikes, monetary policy remains accommodative. "With underlying inflation expected to be relatively low, the FOMC believes that policy accommodation can be removed at a pace that is likely to be measured," the statement said. The Fed was more upbeat about the economy than the previous statement in August.  
   TD The statement said the economy "appears to have regained some traction, and labor market conditions have improved modestly." The Fed noted that despite the rise in energy prices, "inflation and inflation expectations have eased in recent months." The vote to raise the federal funds rate by a quarter-point was unanimous. The Fed also raised the discount rate by a quarter percentage point to 2.75 percent. Financial markets had fully priced in a quarter-points hike. Treasuries were moderately lower after the FOMC statement. The dollar rose against the yen and pared its losses versus the euro. Stocks spiked higher in reaction to the positive Fed comments on the economy. The fed funds rate is the rate banks charge each other for overnight loans to meet the Fed's reserve requirements. The Fed targets the rate by buying and selling Treasurys through its Open Market Desk. This is the last FOMC meeting before the presidential election on Nov. 2. The market expects the FOMC to raise rates one more time to 2.0 percent at its next meeting on Nov. 10 before skipping a rate hike in December. The central bankers have signaled they would raise rates at a slow and steady pace until rates get to a neutral level. Some Fed officials have put that level in the range of 4.0 percent. There is a debate among economists over whether the economy will be strong enough for the Fed to continue to hike rates next year. Despite the Fed rate hikes, 10-year Treasury bond yields have dropped over the summer. Analysts said the market has a darker view than the Fed of the economy's prospects. This story was supplied by CBSMarketWatch. For further information see www. cbsmarketwatch.com. MMMM   
   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBXinhua Financial Network Limited   ANDocument AFXASI0020040921e09m007yd  



 HDFed lifts interest rates - UPDATE 4     WC389 words   PD22 September 2004   SNAFX Asia   SCAFXASI   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2004, AFX Asia. All rights reserved.  
   LPFed lifts interest rates - UPDATE 4 WASHINGTON (XFN-ASIA) - The Federal Reserve raised its key overnight interest rate by a quarter percentage point Tuesday and signaled that more rate hikes are likely in coming months. The Fed raised its Fed funds rate to 1.75 percent from 1.50 percent, the third straight meeting with a quarter-point rate hike. Federal Reserve chairman Alan Greenspan and his colleagues said that even with these three rate hikes, monetary policy remains accommodative. "With underlying inflation expected to be relatively low, the FOMC believes that policy accommodation can be removed at a pace that is likely to be measured," the statement said. The Fed was more upbeat about the economy than the previous statement in August.  
   TD The statement said the economy "appears to have regained some traction, and labor market conditions have improved modestly." The Fed noted that despite the rise in energy prices, "inflation and inflation expectations have eased in recent months." The vote to raise the federal funds rate by a quarter-point was unanimous. The Fed also raised the discount rate by a quarter percentage point to 2.75 percent. Financial markets had fully priced in a quarter-points hike. The fed funds rate is the rate banks charge each other for overnight loans to meet the Fed's reserve requirements. The Fed targets the rate by buying and selling Treasurys through its Open Market Desk. This is the last FOMC meeting before the presidential election on Nov. 2. The market expects the FOMC to raise rates one more time to 2.0 percent at its next meeting on Nov. 10 before skipping a rate hike in December. The central bankers have signaled they would raise rates at a slow and steady pace until rates get to a neutral level. Some Fed officials have put that level in the range of 4.0 percent. There is a debate among economists over whether the economy will be strong enough for the Fed to continue to hike rates next year. Despite the Fed rate hikes, 10-year Treasury bond yields have dropped over the summer. Analysts said the market has a darker view than the Fed of the economy's prospects. This story was supplied by CBSMarketWatch. For further information see  www.cbsmarketwatch.com. MMMM   
   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBXinhua Financial Network Limited   ANDocument AFXASI0020040921e09m007y9  



 HDFed lifts interest rates - UPDATE 3     WC348 words   PD22 September 2004   SNAFX Asia   SCAFXASI   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2004, AFX Asia. All rights reserved.  
   LP   Fed lifts interest rates - UPDATE 3     WASHINGTON (XFN-ASIA) - The Federal Reserve raised its key overnight  interest rate by a quarter percentage point Tuesday and signaled that more  rate hikes are likely in coming months. The Fed raised its Fed funds rate to  1.75 percent from 1.50 percent, the third straight meeting with a  quarter-point rate hike. Federal Reserve chairman Alan Greenspan and his  colleagues said that even with these three rate hikes, monetary policy  remains accommodative and that this should be removed "at a pace that is  likely to be measured." The Fed said the economy "appears to have regained  some traction, and labor market conditions have improved modestly." The Fed  noted that despite the rise in energy prices, "inflation and inflation  expectations have eased in recent months." The vote to raise the federal  funds rate by a quarter point was unanimous. The Fed also raised the discount  rate by a quarter percentage point to 2.75 percent.  
   TD Financial markets had  fully priced in a quarter-points hike. The fed funds rate is the rate banks  charge each other for overnight loans to meet the Fed's reserve requirements.  The Fed targets the rate by buying and selling Treasurys through its Open  Market Desk. The market expects the FOMC to raise rates one more time to 2.0  percent at its next meeting on Nov. 10 before skipping a rate hike in  December. The central bankers have signaled they would raise rates at a slow  and steady pace until rates get to a neutral level. Some Fed officials have  put that level in the range of 4.0 percent. There is a debate among  economists over whether the economy will be strong enough for the Fed to  continue to hike rates next year.  Despite the Fed rate hikes, 10-year  Treasury bond yields have dropped over the summer. Analysts said the market  has a darker view than the Fed of the economy's prospects.  This story was  supplied by CBSMarketWatch. For further information see  www.cbsmarketwatch. com.   MMMM      
   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBXinhua Financial Network Limited   ANDocument AFXASI0020040921e09m007vd  



 HDFed lifts interest rates - UPDATE 2     WC311 words   PD22 September 2004   SNAFX Asia   SCAFXASI   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2004, AFX Asia. All rights reserved.  
   LPFed lifts interest rates - UPDATE 2 WASHINGTON (XFN-ASIA) - The Federal Reserve raised its key overnight interest rate by a quarter percentage point Tuesday and signaled that more rate hikes are likely in coming months. The Fed raised its Fed funds rate to 1.75 percent from 1.50 percent, the third straight meeting with a quarter-point rate hike. The Fed said the economy "appears to have regained some traction, and labor market conditions have improved modestly." The Fed noted that despite the rise in energy prices, "inflation expectations have eased in recent months." The vote to raise the federal funds rate by a quarter point was unanimous. The Fed also raised the discount rate by a quarter percentage point to 2.75 percent. Financial markets had fully priced in a quarter-points cut. The fed funds rate is the rate banks charge each other for overnight loans to meet the Fed's reserve requirements. The Fed targets the rate by buying and selling Treasurys through its Open Market Desk.  
   TD The market expects the FOMC to raise rates one more time to 2.0 percent at its next meeting on Nov. 10 before skipping a rate hike in December. The central bankers have signaled they would raise rates at a slow and steady pace until rates get to a neutral level. Some Fed officials have put that level in the range of 4.0 percent. There is a debate among economists over whether the economy will be strong enough for the Fed to continue to hike rates next year. Despite the Fed rate hikes, 10-year Treasury bond yields have dropped over the summer. Analysts said the market has a darker view than the Fed of the economy's prospects. This story was supplied by CBSMarketWatch. For further information see  www.cbsmarketwatch.com. MMMM   
   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBXinhua Financial Network Limited   ANDocument AFXASI0020040921e09m007sw  



 HDU.S. stocks briefly spike higher on Fed decision     WC178 words   PD22 September 2004   SNAFX Asia   SCAFXASI   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2004, AFX Asia. All rights reserved.  
   LPU.S. stocks briefly spike higher on Fed decision NEW YORK (XFN-ASIA) -- U.S. stocks briefly spiked Tuesday after the U.S. Federal Reserve raised its key interest rate by a widely-expected quarter percentage point to 1.75 percent, with investors encouraged by the central bank's comments that the economy appears to have "regained some traction." "This is a positive for the market. The Fed is saying that the economy is going to strengthen and that inflation is low, which indicates stronger growth ahead," said Peter Cardillo, chief market analyst at S.W. Bach. The Dow Jones Industrial Average was up 17 points at 10,223, after being up 18 points ahead of the Fed's decision. The Nasdaq Composite was up 8 points, at 1,916, little changed from its levels prior to the Fed decision, while the S&P 500 index was up 4.5 points at 1,126. This story was supplied by CBSMarketWatch. For further information see  www.cbsmarketwatch.com. MMMM   
   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBXinhua Financial Network Limited   ANDocument AFXASI0020040921e09m007st  



 HDFed lifts interest rates - UPDATE 1     WC300 words   PD22 September 2004   SNAFX Asia   SCAFXASI   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2004, AFX Asia. All rights reserved.  
   LPFed lifts interest rates - UPDATE 1 WASHINGTON (XFN-ASIA) - The Federal Reserve raised its key overnight interest rate by a quarter percentage point Tuesday, The Fed raised its Fed funds rate to 1.75 percent from 1.50 percent, the third straight meeting with a quarter-point rate hike. The Fed said the economy "appears to have regained some traction, and labor market conditions have improved modestly." The Fed noted that despite the rise in energy prices, "inflation expectations have eased in recent months." The vote to raise the federal funds rate by a quarter point was unanimous. The Fed also raised the discount rate by a quarter percentage point to 2.75 percent. Financial markets had fully priced in a quarter-points cut. The fed funds rate is the rate banks charge each other for overnight loans to meet the Fed's reserve requirements. The Fed targets the rate by buying and selling Treasurys through its Open Market Desk.  
   TD The market expects the FOMC to raise rates one more time to 2.0 percent at its next meeting on Nov. 10 before skipping a rate hike in December. The central bankers have signaled they would raise rates at a slow and steady pace until rates get to a neutral level. Some Fed officials have put that level in the range of 4.0 percent. There is a debate among economists over whether the economy will be strong enough for the Fed to continue to hike rates next year. Despite the Fed rate hikes, 10-year Treasury bond yields have dropped over the summer. Analysts said the market has a darker view than the Fed of the economy's prospects. This story was supplied by CBSMarketWatch. For further information see  www.cbsmarketwatch.com. MMMM   
   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBXinhua Financial Network Limited   ANDocument AFXASI0020040921e09m007sr  



 HDFed lifts interest rates     WC296 words   PD22 September 2004   SNAFX Asia   SCAFXASI   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2004, AFX Asia. All rights reserved.  
   LPFed lifts interest rates WASHINGTON (XFN-ASIA) - The Federal Reserve raised its key overnight interest rate by a quarter percentage point Tuesday, The Fed raised its Fed funds rate to 1.75 percent from 1.50 percent, the third straight meeting with a quarter-point rate hike. The Fed said the economy "appears to have regained some traction, and labor market conditions have improved modestly." The Fed noted that despite the rise in energy prices, "inflation expectations have eased in recent months." The vote to raise the federal funds rate by a quarter point was unanimous. The Fed also raised the discount rate by a quarter percentage point to 2.75 percent. Financial markets had fully priced in a quarter-points cut. The fed funds rate is the rate banks charge each other for overnight loans to meet the Fed's reserve requirements. The Fed targets the rate by buying and selling Treasurys through its Open Market Desk.  
   TD The market expects the FOMC to raise rates one more time to 2.0 percent at its next meeting on Nov. 10 before skipping a rate hike in December. The central bankers have signaled they would raise rates at a slow and steady pace until rates get to a neutral level. Some Fed officials have put that level in the range of 4.0 percent. There is a debate among economists over whether the economy will be strong enough for the Fed to continue to hike rates next year. Despite the Fed rate hikes, 10-year Treasury bond yields have dropped over the summer. Analysts said the market has a darker view than the Fed of the economy's prospects. This story was supplied by CBSMarketWatch. For further information see  www.cbsmarketwatch.com. MMMM   
   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBXinhua Financial Network Limited   ANDocument AFXASI0020040921e09m007sp  



 HDFed hikes rates by quarter point to 1.75%      WC124 words   PD22 September 2004   SNAFX Asia   SCAFXASI   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2004, AFX Asia. All rights reserved.   
   LPFed hikes rates by quarter point to 1.75% WASHINGTON (XFN-ASIA) -- The Federal Reserve boosted its overnight interest rate target to 1.75 percent from 1.50 percent on Tuesday. The Fed said the economy "appears to have regained some traction, and labor market conditions have improved modestly." The statement repeated that rate hikes can proceed at a measured pace. The vote was unanimous. The Fed also raised the discount rate to 2.75 percent on the recommendation of all 12 Fed banks. The Fed noted that despite the rise in energy prices, "inflation expectations have eased in recent months." This story was supplied by CBSMarketWatch. For further information see www. cbsmarketwatch.com. MMMM    
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBXinhua Financial Network Limited   ANDocument AFXASI0020040921e09m007sn  



 HDU.S. Treasuries duck for cover as Fed meets.      BYBy Wayne Cole      WC573 words   PD21 September 2004   ET16:46   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2004 Reuters Limited   
   LPNEW YORK, Sept 21 (Reuters) - U.S. Treasuries prices slipped on Tuesday as caution gripped the market ahead of what is likely to be the Federal Reserve's third interest rate hike of the year so far.   

The benchmark 10-year note eased 5/32 in price, though that was modest compared to recent gains. Yields edged up to 4.08 percent having made a five-month closing low of 4.06 percent on Monday. There was a a brief dip on strong housing starts figures, but dealers seriously doubted the data would have any impact on the Fed's deliberations.   
   TDThe central bank is widely expected to raise interest rates a quarter percentage point to 1.75 percent when its meeting concludes around 2:15 p.m. (1815 GMT). Such a move is fully discounted and more important will be its statement on policy.   

Speculation is rife the Fed might soften its optimism on the economy and acknowledge an easing of inflation pressures. That would set the tone for a more moderate pace of monetary tightening, perhaps hinting at a pause in interest rate hikes for the rest of the year.   

All this talk has contributed to a steep drop in long-term yields and led to a bullish flattening in the yield curve. This trend is likely to be affected no matter what the Fed says.   

"If the statement is softer, we expect the rally to be transferred to the front-end, while if the statement remains upbeat, a reversal of convexity buying expectation would weigh more on the intermediate sector," said Richard Gilhooly, fixed-income market strategist at BNP Paribas.   

"The case for extended bull-flattening is that the Fed continued to hike, blindly ignoring the risks posed by surging oil prices during a soft patch that has lasted longer than expected," he said.   

The string of three consecutive 0.1 percent readings on core consumer prices provided another reason for the Fed to indicate restraint in tightening, he added.   

Two-year notes fell 2/32 in price, nudging yields up to 2.47 percent from 2.43 percent late Monday. Five-year notes lost 5/32, leaving yields at 3.30 percent from 3.27 percent.   

The 30-year bond retreated 8/32, lifting its yield to 4.89 percent from 4.87 percent.   

The yield curve extended its recent flattening trend, with the gap between two-and 10-year yields narrowing to 161 basis points from above 222 basis points mid-year. This was the lowest reading since September, 2001 when an emergency rate cut from the Fed sent the curve sharply steeper.   

Meanwhile, continued strength in crude oil prices was broadly supportive of government debt, since it signaled potential pressure on future U.S. consumer spending.   

The morning's data suggested some restraint by consumers with chain store sales falling 1.1 percent week-on-week.   

However, the housing market remained strong as building starts rose 0.6 percent to 2.0 million in August, confounding forecasts of a fall.   

"Housing activity remains strong," said Steven Wood, chief economist at Insight Economics. "The July/August average is above its Q2 level, suggesting that residential construction is still adding to economic growth."   

Permits, on the other hand, fell 5.5 percent to 1.952 million perhaps hinting at a slight slackening in building plans going forward.    
   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | mntdbt : National Government Debt/Bond Markets | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCN2K:ABR | N2K:ABX | N2K:EBX | N2K:XX   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument LBA0000020040922e09l004nz  



 HDFACTBOX-U.S. Fed policymakers' recent comments.      WC845 words   PD21 September 2004   ET20:33   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2004 Reuters Limited   
   LPNEW YORK, Sept 21 (Reuters) - The Federal Reserve raised official interest rates on Tuesday, as widely expected, brushing off recent mixed economic news.   

The rate increase, the third this year, took the federal funds rate to 1.75 percent from 1.50 percent.   
   TDFollowing is a summary of policymakers' recent remarks.   

* Denotes voting member on FOMC in 2004. -   

FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE STATEMENT, SEPT. 21:   

"After moderating earlier this year partly in response to the substantial rise in energy prices, output growth appears to have regained some traction, and labor market conditions have improved modestly. Despite the rise in energy prices, inflation and inflation expectations have eased in recent months.   

"The Committee perceives the upside and downside risks to the attainment of both sustainable growth and price stability for the next few quarters to be roughly equal. With underlying inflation expected to be relatively low, the Committee believes that policy accommodation can be removed at a pace that is likely to be measured. Nonetheless, the Committee will respond to changes in economic prospects as needed to fulfill its obligation to maintain price stability."   

* FED GOVERNOR EDWARD GRAMLICH, SEPT. 16:   

"It is virtually inevitable that (oil) shocks will result in some combination of higher inflation and higher unemployment for a time."   

"The worst possible outcome is for monetary policy to let inflation come loose from its moorings."   

* FED GOVERNOR SUSAN SCHMIDT BIES, SEPT. 12:   

"We're at the point in our economy at which the Fed is saying ... we have to get (short-term) interest rates back to more sustainable levels. Our main direction is up, but I don't see any urgency."   

The "soft spot" at the start of the summer "seems to be now reversing, which is good because the economy may be past the slowness we went through."   

"There's still much higher rates of inflation now than last fall that we've got to be focused on. So we have to be putting all those things into consideration for our meeting this month."   

DALLAS FED PRESIDENT ROBERT MCTEER, SEPT 10:   

"I think we're going to be able to be measured" in raising interest rates.   

"I think we're coming to the end of the soft patch and I think real GDP growth is certainly going to be higher than 2.8 (percent) in the third quarter."   

CLEVELAND FED PRESIDENT SANDRA PIANALTO, SEPT. 10:   

"As the economy continues to expand, we can continue to withdraw our policy accommodation so that we do not unintentionally promote an inflationary environment down the road. Our economy no longer requires the substantial amount of policy accommodation that it did until relatively recently."   

* ST LOUIS FED PRESIDENT WILLIAM POOLE, SEPT. 10:   

"I'm not that concerned the soft patch is creating a problem."   

"There is nothing we see on the cards right now that raises any significant inflation risk."   

SAN FRANCISCO FED PRESIDENT JANET YELLEN, SEPT. 9:   

"The hurdle for the data has to be reasonably high (for the Fed to pause), given the low level of the fed funds rate. As the (rate) gets higher, that hurdle might decline."   

"I still have some qualms and I still have some nervousness about (the labor market) and the longer-term strength of spending."   

MINNEAPOLIS FED PRESIDENT GARY STERN, SEPT 9:   

"It seems likely the economy will expand around 4 percent over the balance of this year. That's a reasonable number for next year as well and inflation will remain low."   

ATLANTA FED PRESIDENT JACK GUYNN, SEPT. 9:   

"I don't think we can, even now, completely ignore the fact that we've had some return of pricing power in some companies and some industries.   

"Even a couple more adjustments in our fed funds target of the size we did in June and August, by historical standards, would still leave policy in at least a modestly accommodative stance."   

FED CHAIRMAN ALAN GREENSPAN, SEPT. 8:   

"The most recent data suggest that, on the whole, the expansion has regained some traction. Despite the rise in oil prices through mid-August, inflation and inflation expectations have eased in recent months.   

"If it weren't for the oil price spike, I would be very optimistic about where the economy is going."   

DALLAS FED PRESIDENT ROBERT MCTEER, SEPT. 7:   

"I'm hopeful that the soft patch is mostly behind us. I don't see any good reason for the soft patch. I'm sure high energy prices are a big part of it and I'm hopeful they will come down even more than they have." ATLANTA FED PRESIDENT JACK GUYNN, AUG. 25:   

"The data and anecdotal reports we have at this time continue to suggest we can work our way toward a more neutral interest rate setting in a measured way." * FED GOVERNOR BEN BERNANKE, AUG. 23:   

"There's going to be a little bit of a slowdown effect (from rising oil prices)... but at the current levels, anyway, I think it won't derail what looks like a self-sustaining expansion at this point."    
   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCN2K:CEN | N2K:D | N2K:DBT | N2K:DNP | N2K:E | N2K:FED | N2K:FED/QUOTES | N2K:INT | N2K:M | N2K:MCE | N2K:RNP | N2K:STIR | N2K:U | N2K:US   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument LBA0000020040921e09l00bkq  



 HDFACTBOX-U.S. Fed policymakers' recent comments.      WC931 words   PD21 September 2004   ET18:57   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2004 Reuters Limited   
   LPNEW YORK, Sept 21 (Reuters) - The Federal Reserve is widely expect to raise the federal funds rate at policy meeting on Tuesday Sept. 21, despite recent mixed economic news.   

A rate increase, the third this year, would take the federal funds rate to 1.75 percent from 1.50 percent.   
   TDFollowing is a summary of policymakers' recent remarks.   

* Denotes voting member on FOMC in 2004. -   

* FED GOVERNOR EDWARD GRAMLICH, SEPT. 16:   

"It is virtually inevitable that (oil) shocks will result in some combination of higher inflation and higher unemployment for a time."   

"The worst possible outcome is for monetary policy to let inflation come loose from its moorings."   

* FED GOVERNOR SUSAN SCHMIDT BIES, SEPT. 12:   

"We're at the point in our economy at which the Fed is saying ... we have to get (short-term) interest rates back to more sustainable levels. Our main direction is up, but I don't see any urgency."   

The "soft spot" at the start of the summer "seems to be now reversing, which is good because the economy may be past the slowness we went through."   

"There's still much higher rates of inflation now than last fall that we've got to be focused on. So we have to be putting all those things into consideration for our meeting this month."   

DALLAS FED PRESIDENT ROBERT MCTEER, SEPT 10:   

"I think we're going to be able to be measured" in raising interest rates.   

"I think we're coming to the end of the soft patch and I think real GDP growth is certainly going to be higher than 2.8 (percent) in the third quarter."   

CLEVELAND FED PRESIDENT SANDRA PIANALTO, SEPT. 10:   

"As the economy continues to expand, we can continue to withdraw our policy accommodation so that we do not unintentionally promote an inflationary environment down the road. Our economy no longer requires the substantial amount of policy accommodation that it did until relatively recently."   

* ST LOUIS FED PRESIDENT WILLIAM POOLE, SEPT. 10:   

"I'm not that concerned the soft patch is creating a problem."   

"There is nothing we see on the cards right now that raises any significant inflation risk."   

SAN FRANCISCO FED PRESIDENT JANET YELLEN, SEPT. 9:   

"The hurdle for the data has to be reasonably high (for the Fed to pause), given the low level of the fed funds rate. As the (rate) gets higher, that hurdle might decline."   

"I still have some qualms and I still have some nervousness about (the labor market) and the longer-term strength of spending."   

MINNEAPOLIS FED PRESIDENT GARY STERN, SEPT 9:   

"It seems likely the economy will expand around 4 percent over the balance of this year. That's a reasonable number for next year as well and inflation will remain low."   

ATLANTA FED PRESIDENT JACK GUYNN, SEPT. 9:   

"I don't think we can, even now, completely ignore the fact that we've had some return of pricing power in some companies and some industries.   

"Even a couple more adjustments in our fed funds target of the size we did in June and August, by historical standards, would still leave policy in at least a modestly accommodative stance."   

FED CHAIRMAN ALAN GREENSPAN, SEPT. 8:   

"The most recent data suggest that, on the whole, the expansion has regained some traction. Despite the rise in oil prices through mid-August, inflation and inflation expectations have eased in recent months.   

"If it weren't for the oil price spike, I would be very optimistic about where the economy is going."   

DALLAS FED PRESIDENT ROBERT MCTEER, SEPT. 7:   

"I'm hopeful that the soft patch is mostly behind us. I don't see any good reason for the soft patch. I'm sure high energy prices are a big part of it and I'm hopeful they will come down even more than they have." ATLANTA FED PRESIDENT JACK GUYNN, AUG. 25:   

"The data and anecdotal reports we have at this time continue to suggest we can work our way toward a more neutral interest rate setting in a measured way." * FED GOVERNOR BEN BERNANKE, AUG. 23:   

"There's going to be a little bit of a slowdown effect (from rising oil prices)... but at the current levels, anyway, I think it won't derail what looks like a self-sustaining expansion at this point." FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE POLICY STATEMENT, AUG 10:   

"In recent months, output growth has moderated and the pace of improvement in labor market conditions has slowed. This softness likely owes importantly to the substantial rise in energy prices. The economy nevertheless appears poised to resume a stronger pace of expansion going forward. Inflation has been somewhat elevated this year, though a portion of the rise in prices seems to reflect transitory factors. " * KANSAS CITY FED PRESIDENT THOMAS HOENIG, JULY 26:   

"We are still a long ways from a neutral rate as we proceed through the course of the rest of this year."   

"I think that is important to keep in mind as far as monetary policy (is concerned), where we are in the scheme of things." * FEDERAL RESERVE CHAIRMAN ALAN GREENSPAN, JULY 20:   

"If economic developments are such that monetary policy neutrality can be restored at a measured pace, a relatively smooth adjustment of businesses and households to a more typical level of interest rates seems likely.   

"Even if economic developments dictate that the stance of policy must be adjusted in a less gradual manner to ensure price stability, our economy appears to have prepared itself for a more dynamic adjustment of interest rates."    
   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCN2K:CEN | N2K:D | N2K:DBT | N2K:DNP | N2K:E | N2K:FED | N2K:FED/QUOTES | N2K:INT | N2K:M | N2K:MCE | N2K:RNP | N2K:U | N2K:US   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument LBA0000020040921e09l00and  



 HDAs Fed Ponders Another Rate Rise, Bonds Aren't Moving as Expected   BYBy Aaron Lucchetti    WC1,593 words   PD21 September 2004   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGA1   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 2004, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LPSince Federal Reserve policy makers started raising rates, the interest rates that consumers actually live by have barely budged. In fact, some have come down from midsummer levels.

That unusual disconnect between the direction set by the Fed and the direction of market-set interest rates points to a widening belief in the bond market that there is still softness in the economy, and that the pressure for a rapid march toward higher rates is limited.
   TDSince hitting 4.87% in mid-June, the yield on the closely watched 10-year Treasury note -- a benchmark for all long-term rates, including home mortgages -- has dropped -- to 4.06% yesterday. Traders, many of whom braced for a bear market in bonds that hasn't yet come, now chatter about whether the yield will end the day below 4% for the first time since April Fools' Day.

"It's been a little puzzling," said William Hornbarger, chief bond strategist at A.G. Edwards in St. Louis. For weeks, clients have been asking him the same question: "What is the bond market saying?"

To some extent, the market is simply anticipating the effects of the Fed's stair-step escalation of interest rates, which is meant to corral inflationary pressures. The Fed's policy-setting open market committee is almost universally expected today to raise its target for the so-called federal-funds rate -- charged on overnight loans between banks -- another quarter of a percentage point to 1.75%, the third increase since June. If the Fed successfully nips inflation early, that would tend to keep longer-term rates down. Thus the market figures that the Fed's moves, along with high oil prices that have been a drag on growth, could keep the economy -- and inflation -- from speeding up too rapidly.

But the market seems to be taking a darker view of the country's economic prospects than is Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan. He has said the economy hit only a temporary soft patch earlier this year. That sentiment had kept futures traders predicting a good chance of continued interest-rate increases through at least the end of this year.

Now, investors are less certain about further rate increases, especially in 2005, than they were a few weeks ago. According to Banc of America Securities, financial futures markets are pricing in a 98% chance for a quarter-point increase today and a 71% chance for another quarter-point increase when the Fed meets in November. But the chance for another increase at the December meeting drops to 22%, before rising again to 69% for the February meeting.

Governments and corporations issue bonds to investors at set interest rates, but afterward the bonds continue to trade at varying prices, causing yields to change (even though the initial interest rate on each bond generally remains the same). Because bond yields tend to rise and fall with prospects for the economy, some say the 10-year move doesn't bode well for growth in stock-market returns, jobs, profits or economic growth, for that matter.

Falling bond yields indicate that lenders have to offer lower rates to encourage consumers and other borrowers to spend. Already, some economists, worried about spending, have lowered their economic-growth forecasts for the first half of next year. But others see the bond move as a blessing for the economy and for Republicans, as it keeps debt-laden consumers out of trouble and housing prices stable.

The heady growth earlier this year "has slowed down," says Robert Auwaerter, head of bond investments at mutual-fund firm Vanguard Group. "The momentum is not there right now."

If it turns out that the economy is cooling for more than a temporary period -- because of higher oil prices as well as the fading effects of last year's tax cut and mortgage-refinancing boom -- the Fed may decide to wait to make further increases after its expected move today.

Other economists maintain that yields are due to head back up soon. They say the economy is on firmer ground than bond yields would indicate. They say the recent run in bonds -- which pushed prices up and yields down -- is driven by a temporary economic slowdown resulting from high oil prices, speculators using borrowed money, and weaker-than-expected borrowing by corporations.

The bond rally -- if it continues -- could help President George W. Bush's re-election efforts. A low yield on the 10-year Treasury note keeps the government's borrowing costs down and deflects attention from the large budget deficits, which some have predicted could eventually persuade foreign Treasury owners to demand higher yields, or interest rates, on the vast quantities of bonds they buy.

With many mortgages pegged to the Treasury market, that could keep Americans feeling wealthier come Election Day, and could even prompt a new wave of refinancings for consumers, which could lead to more spending.

Investors of all stripes are being drawn to bonds. Following months of investor defections, individuals have put net new money into taxable bond funds seven weeks in a row through last Wednesday, according to mutual-fund tracker AMG Data Services.

Professional investors also are pouring money back into bonds to make quick gains by borrowing money at lower short-term rates to buy higher-rate 10-year notes and 30-year bonds -- the so-called carry trade. "The carry trade is back on, big time," says Dan Fuss, portfolio manager of Loomis Sayles Bond Fund. With 10-year notes still yielding about 2.5 percentage points more than the short-term federal-funds rate, "there's a real incentive" to keep investing in long-term bonds, assuming the Fed doesn't raise its target short-term interest rates too quickly, he adds.

But many are still skeptical of the current slide in yields -- and in turn are less worried about the economy. A.G. Edwards's Mr. Hornbarger points out, for instance, that the yield on the two-year Treasury note hasn't fallen as far as its longer-maturity sibling, the 10-year. Meanwhile, yields on corporate bonds are still sticking relatively close to Treasurys, a sign that investors don't see excessive risk in the financial health of corporations.

Since the increase in late June, the 10-year Treasury yield has fallen more than three-quarters of a percentage point, an anomaly of major proportions for bond watchers. In the four previous Fed rate-raising cycles going back to 1986, the 10-year Treasury yield rose in each three-month period following the first increase, Mr. Hornbarger points out.

This time, however, inflation remains low, despite the persistently high price of oil. Indeed, Treasury yields dropped sharply and prices rose after a tame reading of the consumer-price index last week. Generally speaking, bond investors don't like inflation because it eats up the real value of their fixed-income returns. An investor earning 4% interest on a Treasury note is going to value that asset much more if the price of other goods and services is rising at 2%, rather than 5% or 10%.

The employment picture, despite several fits and starts, also has failed to show much momentum this year. With slow job growth, workers aren't in a position to pressure employers for higher wages, which in turn could touch off higher inflation and lead the Fed to raise rates more aggressively. Because many analysts think the Fed won't raise short-term rates very high in future years if jobs don't get back on track, yields on longer-term debt stay low, supporting bond prices.

Mr. Hornbarger also chalks up much of investors' enthusiasm for bonds to continued fear of terrorism during the election season, which makes low-risk assets like bonds attractive relative to more-volatile stocks. In the past three years, bond prices generally have risen and stocks usually have fallen whenever a terrorist event occurs or the threat of one has been highlighted.

Some fear bond investors may have grown too complacent. Higher oil prices could be more than temporary, they say, eventually passing through to other parts of the economy, increasing the chance of more rampant inflation. And even if oil prices recede, the economy would likely pick up speed, forcing the Fed to raise rates more aggressively.

"I'd be very surprised to see bond yields go much lower," says Robert Hormats, vice chairman of Goldman Sachs International.

While the bond move may help President Bush, some investors' pocketbooks could cause them to lean toward Democratic candidate John Kerry. His election is viewed as more likely to result in political gridlock, with one party controlling Congress while the other controls the White House, making tax cuts and spending increases less likely, and thereby reducing the deficit.

But Mr. Fuss of Loomis Sayles says he doubts the election will have too much impact on bond prices. For one thing, many investors don't strongly believe that either candidate will reduce the deficit significantly.

Tom Gallagher, an analyst at ISI Group, also is skeptical that bond yields will have much bearing on the election. Instead, he has studied moves in the federal-funds rate. Generally, he says that the federal-funds rate tends to rise leading up to Election Day in years the incumbent wins. Strengthening economic conditions, he points out, help sitting presidents while causing Fed officials to raise short-term rates. 

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSm12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mntdbt : National Government Debt/Bond Markets | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | gvexe : Executive Branch | gvtre : Treasury Department | npag : Page-One Story | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ncat : Content Types   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCPIC | FED | TRE | USG | NND | MHD | PGO | TPT   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument J000000020040921e09l0003p  



 HDFT.com site : Eurozone bond trade subdued ahead of Fed decision.   BYCharles Batchelor    WC172 words   PD21 September 2004   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2004 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPEurozone government bond trading was subdued in advance of the US Federal Reserve's decision on interest rates expected later on Tuesday.

The market expectation is of a quarter percentage point increase to 1.75 per cent so interest is focused on the tone of the Fed's commentary on future interest rate policy.
   TDA further rise to 2 per cent is widely expected by the end of the year but an increase before the US elections is unlikely leaving November or December as the most likely months.

With no significant European economic data to influence trading, the yield on the two-year Schatz rose 1.4 basis points to 2.562 per cent while the 10-year Bund was 1.3bp firmer at 4.018 per cent.

In the UK government bond market the two-year gilt yield fell 2bp to 4.746 per cent while the 10-year gilt was unchanged at 4.895 per cent. 
   RF37938281   NSm12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mntdbt : National Government Debt/Bond Markets | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTCOM00020040922e09l0000g  



 HDFed statement on decision to raise short-term  interest rate    BYBy The Associated Press     WC314 words   PD21 September 2004   ET20:48   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2004.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.  
   LPThe Federal Open Market Committee's statement on its decision Tuesday to raise a short-term interest rate:  

------  
   TDThe Federal Open Market Committee decided today to raise its target for the federal funds rate by 25 basis points to 1-3/4 percent.  

The committee believes that, even after this action, the stance of monetary policy remains accommodative and, coupled with robust underlying growth in productivity, is providing ongoing support to economic activity. After moderating earlier this year partly in response to the substantial rise in energy prices, output growth appears to have regained some traction, and labor market conditions have improved modestly. Despite the rise in energy prices, inflation and inflation expectations have eased in recent months  

The committee perceives the upside and downside risks to the attainment of both sustainable growth and price stability for the next few quarters to be roughly equal. With underlying inflation expected to be relatively low, the committee believes that policy accommodation can be removed at a pace that is likely to be measured. Nonetheless, the committee will respond to changes in economic prospects as needed to fulfill its obligation to maintain price stability.  

Voting for the FOMC monetary policy action were: Alan Greenspan, chairman; Timothy F. Geithner, vice chairman; Ben S. Bernanke; Susan S. Bies; Roger W. Ferguson, Jr.; Edward M. Gramlich; Thomas M. Hoenig; Donald L. Kohn; Cathy E. Minehan; Mark W. Olson; Sandra Pianalto; and William Poole.  

In a related action, the Board of Governors unanimously approved a 25 basis point increase in the discount rate to 2-3/4 percent. In taking this action, the board approved the requests submitted by the boards of directors of the Federal Reserve Banks of Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, Minneapolis, Kansas City, Dallas, and San Francisco.  
   RF7   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagpf1wcat | sel----- | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | NA FIN ECO US Fed Statement | D8587EPG1   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020040921e09l00bcg  



 HDFed Statement on Decision to Raise Rates     BYBy The Associated Press     WC311 words   PD21 September 2004   ET20:41   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2004.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.  
   LPThe Federal Open Market Committee's statement on its decision Tuesday to raise a short-term interest rate:  

------  
   TDThe Federal Open Market Committee decided today to raise its target for the federal funds rate by 25 basis points to 1-3/4 percent.  

The committee believes that, even after this action, the stance of monetary policy remains accommodative and, coupled with robust underlying growth in productivity, is providing ongoing support to economic activity. After moderating earlier this year partly in response to the substantial rise in energy prices, output growth appears to have regained some traction, and labor market conditions have improved modestly. Despite the rise in energy prices, inflation and inflation expectations have eased in recent months  

The committee perceives the upside and downside risks to the attainment of both sustainable growth and price stability for the next few quarters to be roughly equal. With underlying inflation expected to be relatively low, the committee believes that policy accommodation can be removed at a pace that is likely to be measured. Nonetheless, the committee will respond to changes in economic prospects as needed to fulfill its obligation to maintain price stability.  

Voting for the FOMC monetary policy action were: Alan Greenspan, chairman; Timothy F. Geithner, vice chairman; Ben S. Bernanke; Susan S. Bies; Roger W. Ferguson, Jr.; Edward M. Gramlich; Thomas M. Hoenig; Donald L. Kohn; Cathy E. Minehan; Mark W. Olson; Sandra Pianalto; and William Poole.  

In a related action, the Board of Governors unanimously approved a 25 basis point increase in the discount rate to 2-3/4 percent. In taking this action, the board approved the requests submitted by the boards of directors of the Federal Reserve Banks of Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, Minneapolis, Kansas City, Dallas, and San Francisco.  
   RF7   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | gcat : Political/General News | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagpf1apon | sel----- | catf | 1310   IPDFinancial/Business | Fed Statement | D8587BQO1   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020040921e09l00b7x  



 HDStocks rise on brokerage earnings, housing data, but trading light ahead of Fed meeting     BYBy MEG RICHARDS     CRAP Business Writer   WC585 words   PD21 September 2004   ET18:28   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2004.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.  
   LPNEW YORK (AP) - Strong earnings from financial services companies and upbeat economic data pushed stocks higher Tuesday, but many investors clung to the sidelines ahead of the Federal Reserve's decision on interest rates, expected later in the session.  

Investors may be seeing some buying opportunities after Monday, when gloomy outlooks from the consumer staples group weighed heavily on the market; a strong reading on new housing construction provided additional incentive. Analysts seemed confident the Fed would act as expected, and raise short-term rates by another quarter percentage point to 1.75 percent.  
   TD"The outlook for monetary policy is for there to be no surprises there, no change in the thrust of interest rate moves going forward," said Lynn Reaser, chief economist and senior market strategist with Banc of America Capital Management. "Long-term interest rates are still at very low levels at this point, inflation is subdued, and as for the election, the polls are running more on the side of the president, which removes some of the uncertainty which had plagued the markets earlier this summer."  

In early afternoon trading, the Dow Jones industrial average was up 5.90, or 0.1 percent, at 10,210.79.  

The broader gauges were also higher. The Standard & Poor's 500 index added 2.60, or 0.2 percent, to 1,124.80. The Nasdaq composite index gained 4.55, or 0.2 percent, to 1,912.62.  

The Commerce Department reported robust housing construction in August, which analysts interpreted as a positive signal about the economy. The 2 million units of housing construction clocked for August was the highest level of activity in five months, and far outpaced the decline economists were expecting. July's housing figures were revised upward.  

The upbeat economic news reinforces Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan's view that the economy is on firmer footing since striking a soft patch in the late spring.  

Greenspan and other Fed policy-makers were widely expected to raise the federal funds rate -- the rate banks charge each other on overnight loans -- at a meeting later Tuesday. Not all analysts are convinced the economy has worked through the downturn from earlier this year, but the Fed seems intent on gradually raising rates up from their ultralow levels. Inflation seems to be in check, and the goal is to make sure it stays that way.  

Persistently high energy prices continue to weigh heavily on investors' minds, however. Global supply concerns were further exacerbated by Russian oil giant Yukos' announcement that it would halt shipments to China due to financial troubles related to its ongoing fight with Moscow over back taxes. Light sweet crude for October delivery rose 46 cents to $46.65.  

Goldman Sachs Group Inc. added $2.15 to $93.83 after posting a 30 percent jump in profits for the latest quarter, helped by strong growth across its segments. Earnings per share of $1.74 surpassed the $1.43 per share forecast by analysts surveyed by Thomson First Call.  

Among decliners, General Mills Inc. fell 99 cents to $45.34 after the cereal maker reported a 19 percent dip in earnings due to higher prices for ingredients and restructuring costs. The company has raised prices of its products to reflect higher commodity prices, but the effect is only now being felt; results for the next quarter are expected to be stronger.  
   RF5   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagpf1wcat | sel----- | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | NA FIN MKT US Stocks | D8585DE00   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020040921e09l008nd  



 HD Federal Reserve  raises short-term interest rates     BYBy JEANNINE AVERSA     CRAssociated Press Writer   WC768 words   PD21 September 2004   ET21:39   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2004.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.  
   LPWASHINGTON (AP) - With the U.S. economy moving ahead and the nation's payrolls picking up a bit, Federal Reserve policy-makers boosted short-term interest rates for a third time this year -- the last chance to do so before the November election six weeks away.  

Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan and his Federal Open Market Committee colleagues -- the group that sets interest-rate policy -- increased the target for the federal funds rate from 1.50 percent to 1.75 percent. The funds rate is the interest banks charge each other on overnight loans and is the Fed's primary tool for influencing economic activity.  
   TDReacting to the Fed's decision, Wells Fargo said it was increasing the prime lending for many short-term consumer and business loans from 4.50 percent to 4.75 percent. Other commercial banks were expected to follow suit.  

The Fed, explaining its unanimous decision, said the economy -- which slowed earlier this year partly because of soaring energy prices -- now "appears to have regained some traction." That echoed a comment Greenspan made to Congress earlier this month.  

In another encouraging note, the Fed said, "Labor market conditions have improved modestly." That was a better assessment than the Fed offered in August, when it said job market improvements had slowed.  

"The Fed is sending a message of relative comfort with the current condition of the economy," said Lynn Reaser, chief economist at Banc of America Capital Management. "They suggested we are pulling out of the soft patch."  

The Fed's rate increase comes with Election Day just six weeks away. President George W. Bush and his Democratic rival, John Kerry, hold widely divergent views of the health of the economy and the job market.  

Incumbent politicians normally are unhappy if the Fed raises interest rates close to an election. Yet, some economists said that by raising rates, the Fed could be viewed as appearing comfortable about the pace of the economy's expansion, which could be seen as good for the Bush campaign.  

Other economists said that if the Fed had dropped its gradual rate-raising approach and unexpectedly passed on a rate increase in September, it might have looked politically motivated.  

"I think what they needed to do so close to the election is not stray from the path that they had set out," said Carl Tannenbaum, chief economist at LaSalle Bank. "Maintaining their course for rates is the wisest thing to do both economically and politically."  

The Fed's rate-raising campaign began in June when the central bank ordered its first rate increase in four years. Since then, the Fed raised the rates in August and then Tuesday.  

Fed policy-makers stuck to their view that future rate increases would be gradual because inflation is expected to remain relatively low. Inflation has eased in recent months despite the rise in energy prices, the Fed said.  

Analysts believe the funds rate will rise to 2 percent by the end of this year. Economists, however, have mixed opinions on how additional rate increases. Some believe the Fed will boost rates again on Nov. 10, then stand pat Dec. 14, its last meeting of the year. Others believe the Fed might take a breather at the November meeting but raise rates in December.  

The economy is expanding and no longer needs the support of ultralow interest rates, economists said.  

There have been some signs the economy is gaining momentum:  

--Housing construction climbed in August to an annual rate of 2 million units, the highest since March, the Commerce Department reported Tuesday.  

--Companies, meanwhile, increased hiring in August, adding 144,000 jobs, the most since May. Still, the economy is down a net 913,000 jobs since Bush took office.  

Private economists believe the economy, which grew at a 2.8 percent annual rate in the second quarter of this year, expanded at a 3 percent to 4 percent pace in the July-to-September quarter.  

Even with the latest increases, both the funds rate and the prime rate remain low by historical standards. Before the Fed ordered its first rate increase of the year in June, the funds rate had been kept for a year at 1 percent, a 46-year low, to support the economy.  

A series of 13 rate reductions from January 2001 to June 2003 left the funds rate at 1 percent as the Fed battled to help an economy staggered by a series of blows: a plunging stock market, the 2001 recession, terror attacks and two wars.  
   RF7   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagpf1wcat | sel----- | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | NA FIN ECO US Fed Interest Rates | D85886RG1   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020040921e09l0083p  



 HDFed Boosts Rate for Third Time in 2004     BYBy JEANNINE AVERSA     CRAssociated Press Writer   WC780 words   PD22 September 2004   ET00:40   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2004.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.  
   LPWASHINGTON (AP) - With the economy moving ahead and the nation's payrolls picking up a bit, Federal Reserve policy-makers boosted short-term interest rates for a third time this year -- but left economists split about when the next increase might come.  

Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan and his Federal Open Market Committee colleagues -- the group that sets interest-rate policy -- increased the target for the federal funds rate from 1.50 percent to 1.75 percent. The funds rate is the interest banks charge each other on overnight loans and is the Fed's primary tool for influencing economic activity.  
   TDReacting to the Fed's decision, Wells Fargo said it was increasing the prime lending for many short-term consumer and business loans from 4.50 percent to 4.75 percent. Other commercial banks were expected to follow suit.  

The Fed, explaining its unanimous decision, said the economy -- which slowed earlier this year partly because of soaring energy prices -- now "appears to have regained some traction." That echoed a comment Greenspan made to Congress earlier this month.  

In another encouraging note, the Fed said, "Labor market conditions have improved modestly." That was a better assessment than the Fed offered in August, when it said job market improvements had slowed.  

"The Fed is sending a message of relative comfort with the current condition of the economy," said Lynn Reaser, chief economist at Banc of America Capital Management. "They suggested we are pulling out of the soft patch."  

On Wall Street, the Dow Jones industrials gained 40 points to close at 10,245.  

The Fed's rate increase comes with Election Day just six weeks away. President Bush and his Democratic rival, John Kerry, hold widely divergent views of the health of the economy and the job market.  

Incumbent politicians normally are unhappy if the Fed raises interest rates close to an election. Yet, some economists said that by raising rates, the Fed could be viewed as appearing comfortable about the pace of the economy's expansion, which could be seen as good for the Bush campaign.  

Other economists said that if the Fed had dropped its gradual rate-raising approach and unexpectedly passed on a rate increase in September, it might have looked politically motivated.  

"I think what they needed to do so close to the election is not stray from the path that they had set out," said Carl Tannenbaum, chief economist at LaSalle Bank. "Maintaining their course for rates is the wisest thing to do both economically and politically."  

The Fed's rate-raising campaign began in June when the central bank ordered its first rate increase in four years. Since then, the Fed raised the rates in August and then Tuesday.  

Fed policy-makers stuck to their view that future rate increases would be gradual because inflation is expected to remain relatively low. Inflation has eased in recent months despite the rise in energy prices, the Fed said.  

Analysts believe the funds rate will rise to 2 percent by the end of this year. Economists, however, have mixed opinions on how additional rate increases. Some believe the Fed will boost rates again on Nov. 10, then stand pat Dec. 14, its last meeting of the year. Others believe the Fed might take a breather at the November meeting but raise rates in December.  

The economy is expanding and no longer needs the support of ultralow interest rates, economists said.  

There have been some signs the economy is gaining momentum:  

--Housing construction climbed in August to an annual rate of 2 million units, the highest since March, the Commerce Department reported Tuesday.  

--Companies, meanwhile, increased hiring in August, adding 144,000 jobs, the most since May. Still, the economy is down a net 913,000 jobs since Bush took office.  

Private economists believe the economy, which grew at a 2.8 percent annual rate in the second quarter of this year, expanded at a 3 percent to 4 percent pace in the July-to-September quarter.  

Even with the latest increases, both the funds rate and the prime rate remain low by historical standards. Before the Fed ordered its first rate increase of the year in June, the funds rate had been kept for a year at 1 percent, a 46-year low, to support the economy.  

A series of 13 rate reductions from January 2001 to June 2003 left the funds rate at 1 percent as the Fed battled to help an economy staggered by a series of blows: a plunging stock market, the 2001 recession, terror attacks and two wars.  
   RF7   ARTimage audio     INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | gcat : Political/General News | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagpf0apon | sel----- | catf | 1310   IPDFinancial/Business | Fed Interest Rates | D858ARF81   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020040921e09l002mk  



 HDGreenspan, bond market file for divorce     WC1,259 words   PD21 September 2004   SNAFX Asia   SCAFXASI   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2004, AFX Asia. All rights reserved.  
   LP   Greenspan, bond market file for divorce     WASHINGTON (XFN-ASIA) -- In what may be the biggest celebrity breakup  since J-Lo and Ben Affleck called it quits, it looks like the Federal Reserve  and the bond market have decided to go their separate ways. The growing  estrangement has captivated Wall Street. Over the past few weeks, the bond  market has seemed impervious to Fed chief Alan Greenspan's soothing words  that the U.S. economy was regaining traction, preferring to focus on his  comments that the inflation threat was receding. The market has yawned  through several tough Fed speeches that stressed that the Fed funds rate will  still be low even if the FOMC lifts rates by a quarter-percentage point to 1. 75 percent on Tuesday as is widely expected.  Instead of rising as might be  expected in a rate-tightening environment, yields on benchmark 10-year  Treasury notes have fallen back to early-April lows. The market is obsessed  with less-than-spectacular economic reports.  
   TD  "There is a lot of head  scratching going on as to what yields are doing down here," said Chris  Rupkey, economist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi. Robert Brusca, chief economist  at FAO Economics, said that it is his "working hypothesis" that the bond  market is right and the Fed is wrong. "The bond market has latched on to  these signs of weakness, and I think the signs are real," he said. Most  economists agree with the Fed and are in the economy-is-going-to-rebound  camp. But Brusca said this is misleading, because economists are reluctant to  suggest the Fed is wrong. "If you bet with the Fed and are wrong, well, who  can blame you? But if you say the Fed is wrong, and you turn out to be wrong  -- you can get fired for that," Brusca said. Investors, it would seem, are  forced to pick a side. "Some observers ... those prone to viewing the economy  in a pessimistic light, are suggesting that the recent and continuing decline  in long-term bond yields is another sign that the economy must be in trouble, " said Brian Wesbury, chief economist with Griffin, Kubik, Stephens &  Thompson. "Our knee-jerk reaction is to always believe the markets. But,  because Fed policy has become such a major factor in the bond market, other  developments are hard to read." You say skip, I say pause Stuart Hoffman,  chief economist with PNC Financial Services, thinks the bond market and the  Fed are on the same page. They just might not know it. The Fed's pledge for a  "measured" approach to raising interest rates may well include skipping a  month or more in its quest to achieve neutral interest rates. Short-term  interest-rate futures contracts show hedgers are betting the Fed will pause  with its expected interest-rate hikes late this year.  "I suspect the market  thinks the Fed will go to 2 percent in November and I agree with that. The  debate divides after that. The bond market thinks they'll hold off in  December," Hoffman said. "If [the Fed] holds off at two or more meetings,  that's a pause. A one-meeting skip is part of a 'measured' approach. Skipping  two or three in a row, that's a different posture." "I think they'll move  ahead in the first half of next year. Perhaps raising in February, skipping  March," he said. "Rate hikes in two out of four or three out of four meetings  early next year would still be considered measured." You say one thing, and  do another Bob Gay, chief interest-rate strategist with Commerzbank  Securities and a former staff economist at the Federal Reserve, says the rift  between the Fed and the bond market stems from earlier this year. He said the  Fed jerked around the market with its discussion of inflation expectations.  The Fed said earlier this year that while inflation risks remain low,  perceptions of rising inflation could hobble the recovery, prompting it to  signal future rate hikes that became reality in June.  But Fed officials then  shrugged off rising energy prices as a fleeting feature of the summer  slowdown. "The residue of that volatility is a mispricing at the long end" of  the Treasury market, Gay said. Gay thinks the short-maturity side of the bond  market and the fed funds futures have it right: the Fed will raise rates  gradually, but doesn't need to act aggressively.  The longer end of the  market, he says, may still be too bearish and is not even yet adequately  reflecting sanguine inflation. Lipstick on the collar  Jeoff Hall, a managing  economist and analyst with IFR Markets, says it's rare for the bond market to  look outside the Federal Reserve for its inspiration. But that's just what's  happening now. Hall said bond prices are being propped up and yields held  artificially low both because a large contingent of foreign investors is  still buying up U.S. debt and because of cross currents from other  fixed-income markets. Portfolios that hold agency debt, or those  mortgage-related securities sold by Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae, are buying  Treasurys to guarantee an interest stream lost to early mortgage payoffs. A  similar divergence happened last summer when the economy was gathering steam  and Treasury yields held at decades' lows. A low-rate cycle is perpetuated  because demand for Treasurys sends yields lower, prompting early loan payoffs  and increasing demand for Treasurys in the mortgage portfolios, which in  turn, pushes rates even lower. Wesbury, too, says the dynamics of the current  market reflect summer 2003, when the so-called carry trade, or borrowing at  cheap short-term interest rates to buy longer-term securities, pushed down  yields. "As in 2003, we believe that the recent decline in long-term Treasury  yields is due to a belief that the Fed will slow down its rate-hiking  campaign as the economy slows," Wesbury said.  "But, this is an iffy  supposition. The Fed is likely to continue hiking rates, the economy is far  from rolling over and inflationary pressures are on the rise. We continue to  suggest a defensive investment posture and look for rates to rise  significantly in the year ahead." The Federal Reserve is probably satisfied  to see longer-term interest rates remain low and the housing market abuzz as  the economy is finding its legs, suggests Hall. The risk, however, is a  disorderly exodus out of the market by these sources of demand, sending  yields sharply higher. Reconciliation There are many in the bond market that  "look at the numbers, see inflation being tame, see the slowdown in economic  growth expanding and see the Fed skipping [a rate hike] one or two times  based on that information," said Kevin Giddis, a managing director in fixed  income with Morgan Keegan & Co. But Fed speeches over the past few weeks gave  few hints of the pause scenario. A chorus of Fed members have also stressed  that interest rates are going to rise until they reach neutrality. No one  knows exactly where neutral interest-rate policy is, but it's above the  current 1.5 percent Fed funds rate.  Many analysts say it will take one event  -- either a decisively strong or weak indicator -- to bring the two sides  back together. In that case, they say Greenspan and the market could make up  quicker than it takes Britney Spears to get hitched. This story was supplied  by CBSMarketWatch. For further information see  www.cbsmarketwatch.com.   MMMM      
   COmitfin : Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Inc. | pitnat : PNC Financial Services Group Inc   INi814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBXinhua Financial Network Limited   ANDocument AFXASI0020040920e09l007n1  



 HDDollar gets little help from the Fed     BYBUR     WC320 words   PD21 September 2004   ET23:36   SNAgence France Presse   SCAFPR   LAEnglish   CYCopyright Agence France-Presse, 2004 All reproduction and presentation rights reserved.  
   LPNEW YORK, Sept 21 (AFP) -  

The dollar traded mostly lower Tuesday, failing to get a lift from a Federal Reserve quarter-point rate hike that had been widely expected and priced into the market.  
   TDThe euro traded at 1.2330 dollars, from 1.2173 late Monday in New York.  

The dollar was trading at 109.73 yen after 109.80 on Monday.  

As the market had already priced the rate hike, taking the benchmark Fed funds rate to 1.75 percent, traders focused on the Fed's accompanying statement.  

The Federal Open Market Committee statement, similar to its comments in August, suggests that it sees stabilizing US economic conditions that can support higher interest rates.  

"After moderating earlier this year, partly in response to the substantial rise in energy prices, output growth appears to have regained some traction, and labor market conditions have improved modestly," the statement said.  

The FOMC statement added that inflation remains tame, despite a recent surge in oil prices.  

Avery Shenfeld at CIBC World Markets said the Fed did not tip its hand on the future course of rate actions.  

"The Fed is comfortable that the economy is doing well enough to cope with moderately higher interest rates, but doesn't have to make the decision about just how strong the economy really is," said Shenfeld.  

Some said the reference to tame inflation means a slower pace of rate hikes than anticipated.  

"The market thinks that the central bank will be less aggressive in hiking the interest rate in the future, leading to a significant fall in bond yields and mortgage rates recently because the inflation picture has improved significantly," said Sung Won Sohn at Wells Fargo.  

In late New York trade, the dollar stood at 1.2537 Swiss francs from 1.2713 Monday.  

The pound was at 1.7966 dollars after 1.7857 Monday.  

bur-rl/gs  
   COcibcwm : CIBC World Markets Inc. | cimba : Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce   INi814 : Banking | i831 : Financial Investments | i83101 : Investment Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | iinv : Investing/Securities   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPDForex | US   PUBAgence France Presse   ANDocument AFPR000020040921e09l00ci1  



 HDFed raises key  interest rate  quarter point to 1.75 percent     BYBUR     WC230 words   PD21 September 2004   ET20:42   SNAgence France Presse   SCAFPR   LAEnglish   CYCopyright Agence France-Presse, 2004 All reproduction and presentation rights reserved.  
   LPWASHINGTON, Sept 21 (AFP) -  

Federal Reserve policymakers lifted the federal funds rate a quarter point Tuesday to 1.75 percent, saying the US economy has "regained some traction" and no longer needs as much stimulus.  
   TDThe Federal Open Market Committee also said in a statement that it sees the risks to the US economy as balanced, allowing a more neutral monetary policy.  

The rate hike vote was unanimous and marked the third increase in as many meetings of the FOMC since June. The action had been widely expected by financial markets.  

Fed chairman Alan Greenspan and his colleagues said that even with these three rate hikes, monetary policy remains accommodative and that this should be removed "at a pace that is likely to be measured."  

The language, similar to the Fed's last statement in August, suggests that it sees stabilizing US economic conditions that can support higher interest rates.  

"After moderating earlier this year partly in response to the substantial rise in energy prices, output growth appears to have regained some traction, and labor market conditions have improved modestly," the statement said.  

The statement added that inflation remains tame despite the recent surge in oil prices.  

"Despite the rise in energy prices, inflation and inflation expectations have eased in recent months," the statement said.  

bur-rl/tw  
   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPDUS | economy | bank | rates 2ndlead   PUBAgence France Presse   ANDocument AFPR000020040921e09l009sw  



 HDFed raises key  interest rate  quarter point to 1.75 percent     BYBUR     WC192 words   PD21 September 2004   ET20:25   SNAgence France Presse   SCAFPR   LAEnglish   CYCopyright Agence France-Presse, 2004 All reproduction and presentation rights reserved.  
   LPWASHINGTON, Sept 21 (AFP) -  

US Federal Reserve policymakers lifted the federal funds rate a quarter point Tuesday to 1.75 percent, the third rate increase since June.  
   TDThe Federal Open Market Committee said in a statement that it sees the risks to the US economy as balanced, allowing a more neutral monetary policy.  

The statement repeated the Fed's stand that future rate increases are expected to come at "a pace that is likely to be measured."  

Even with the rate increase, monetary policy "remains accommodative," or stimulating economic growth, the statement said.  

But the FOMC said the US economic no longer needs the ultra-low rates needed to avert economic contraction.  

"After moderating earlier this year partly in response to the substantial rise in energy prices, output growth appears to have regained some traction, and labor market conditions have improved modestly," the statement said.  

The statement added that inflation remains tame despite the recent surge in oil prices.  

"Despite the rise in energy prices, inflation and inflation expectations have eased in recent months," the statement said.  

bur-rl/mac  
   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPDUS | economy | bank | rates | lift lead   PUBAgence France Presse   ANDocument AFPR000020040921e09l009ki  



 HDNY FX: Dlr Soft Vs Mjrs At Close, Fed Statement To Set FX Tone     WC706 words   PD20 September 2004   ET18:10   SNMarket News International   SCMARNEW   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2004. Market News International, Inc.  
   TD
                
By Vicki Schmelzer

     NEW YORK, Sept. 20 (MktNews) - The dollar closed near the day's 
lows against the euro and other major currencies Monday, with market 
players on edge ahead of Tuesday's Federal Reserve Bank decision and 
more importantly, the Fed's accompanying statement, traders said. 

     Euro-dollar closed at $1.2168, off from the day's highs near 
$1.2177, and up from the day's lows at $1.2126, both seen in U.S. 
action. 

     Euro bids were expected at $1.2120/25, with offers in place at 
$1.2190/$1.2200. 

     Dollar-yen held at Y109.87, in the middle of the day's Y109.72 to 
Y110.15 range. 

     In other pairs, dollar-Swiss was trading at Chf1.2727, after 
holding a Chf1.2699 to Chf1.2782 range, with sterling at $1.7858, after 
trading within a $1.7817 to $1.7927 range. 

     Ahead of Tuesday's Fed meeting, most major currencies should 
maintain similar tight ranges, traders said. 

     A move by the Fed to raise U.S. interest rates by 25 basis points 
will come as no surprise, but market players have mixed views about the 
accompanying statement. 

     Some players maintained that the Fed may sound more upbeat, which 
would be taken as dollar positive and other players saw the Fed opting 
for a more neutral stance, seen as dollar neutral or negative. 

     "We are really rangebound -- we need something more," noted Hugh 
Walsh, vice president of Fortis U.S.A. in New York. 

     Most players do not look for the Fed to roil financial markets by 
being overly optimistic or pessimistic, he said. 

     "Maybe if the Fed is more upbeat, you might see the dollar rally, 
but those expectations aren't too wide spread," Walsh said. 

     Instead, market players are hunkering down for a long period of 
rangebound trading action, looking for most FX pairs to hold recent 
parameters into the November presidential elections. 

     "Vols (volatility) continue to collapse," he said, which is hurting 
some option desks at the moment. 

     Analysts also were homing in on the Fed's accompanying statement. 

     "If the press statement sounds anything remotely close to what Mr. 
Greenspan or the Beige Book had to say about the economy and inflation 
back on September 8 and 9th, then you may well find that the market 
begins to price out additional rate hikes down the road, said David 
Rosenberg, chief North American economist at Merrill Lynch in a market 
update. 

     "Keep in mind that 3.0% is the consensus for the second half of 
next year for Fed funds," he said. 

     The Fed is likely to be cautious in their wording on Tuesday,rather 
than risk unforeseen interest rate adjustments, Rosenberg said. 

     "We believe the policy statement with regard to the economy 
will closely mirror the previous August 10 statement," he said. 

     "Bottom line, the FOMC will have plenty of time between now and the 
next meeting on November 10 to send signals to the markets," Rosenberg 
added. 

     The Federal Reserve announcement is expected around 2:15 p.m. EDT 
Tuesday. 
     
     In other markets Monday, NYMEX November light sweet crude oil 
futures settled  near $46.19/barrel, off from session highs near $46.34, 
and up from Friday's settlement at $45.59. 

     The October contract was set to terminate on Tuesday, with many 
players already rolled into the new month's contract. 

     Spot gold was trading at $405.00/oz, after holding a tight $404.10
to $405.30 range on the day.
-- Vicki Schmelzer, (212) 669-6438;e-mail:vschmelzer@marketnews.com 

     Dollar Rates in New York Trade: 

                    Eur-Dlr   Dlr-Yen   Eur-Yen   Stg-Dlr   Dlr-Swiss

 3:57 p.m.          1.2167    109.87    133.68    1.7855    1.2728
12:23 p.m.          1.2168    109.90    133.73    1.7873    1.2727
 9:30 a.m.          1.2135    109.91    133.38    1.7837    1.2762
 7:37 a.m.   Mon    1.2141    109.76    133.26    1.7843    1.2741
 4:00 p.m.   Fri    1.2182    109.89    133.87    1.7941    1.2692
                              
  ** Market News International New York Newsroom: 212-669-6430 **  
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBMarket News International, Inc.   ANDocument MARNEW0020040920e09k0053g  



 HDEmerging debt-Spreads narrow amid high-yield appetite.      WC514 words   PD20 September 2004   ET23:02   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2004 Reuters Limited   
   LP
    By Manuela Badawy
    NEW YORK, Sept 20 (Reuters) - Emerging market debt spreads
tightened slightly on Monday as investors continued to seek out
investments that would return higher profits than safe-haven
U.S. Treasuries.
    "All Latin American credit did good today. We continue to
see more of the same which is that there is an excess of
liquidity," said Jorge Amato, emerging market trader at
investment bank Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein. "Expectations
that the Fed will maintain low and manageable interest rates
create demand for high-risk, premium credit."
    The Federal Reserve is to meet on Tuesday to decide on its
monetary policy, yet a quarter-percentage point interest rate
hike is already priced in by the market, analysts said.
    Country spreads narrowed by one basis point on the JP
Morgan Emerging Markets Bond Index Plus (EMBI+)  to 414
basis points over comparable U.S. Treasuries.
   
   TD
 Total returns
were up 0.35 percent on the day bringing year-to-date gains to
6.3 percent.
    Ecuador, Venezuela and Brazil were the best performers on
the day. Ecuador's spread narrowed 26 basis points (bps) on the
EMBI+ to 765 over Treasuries. Total returns were up 2.32
percent on the day.
    "Ecuador has been an underperformer for the last several
weeks because of political concerns, but today you are seeing
investors who were pessimistic about Ecuador throwing the towel
and say: 'it's too cheap not to buy at these levels relative to
the rest of the market,'" said Christian Stracke, lead emerging
markets analyst at CreditSights, a Wall Street research firm.
 
    A rise in oil prices was also helping Ecuador and
Venezuela, net oil exporters.
    October crude oil futures on the New York Mercantile
   

Exchange settled up 76 cents at $46.35 a barrel after the U.S.   

government said Hurricane Ivan shut in almost 8 million barrels   

of oil output last week.    


 
    Venezuelan spreads narrowed 5 bps to 476 over Treasuries.
Total returns were up 0.91 percent.
    "Venezuela has been enjoying the general rally in emerging
markets, and, with oil prices heading back to $46 a barrel, it
becomes very difficult not to buy Venezuela," Stracke said.
    Brazil spreads also narrowed after Standard & Poor's on
Friday upgraded its sovereign rating to "BB-" on improved
fiscal and macroeconomic policies.
    Meanwhile, Turkey spreads widened 17 basis points to 356
bps over Treasuries. Total returns were down 0.86 percent.
    "The story of the day is not so much that Brazil is doing
   

well because Venezuela is also doing well, but that Turkey is   

such an underperformer today on the back of the penal code   

backtracking by the Turkish government and the warning by the   

European Union," Stracke said.   

The Turkish government put penal code reforms on hold late   

last week after the center-left opposition blocked its efforts   

to include a clause criminalizing adultery.   

The European Union has said it cannot start entry   

negotiations with Turkey unless Ankara reforms its penal code   

ahead of a crucial report on whether talks should begin.   
   NSmntdbt : National Government Debt/Bond Markets | e1202 : Interest Rates | nanl : Analysis | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ncat : Content Types   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCN2K:BR | N2K:CDV | N2K:D | N2K:DBT | N2K:E | N2K:EMRG | N2K:EMRG/DBT | N2K:FIN | N2K:FUND | N2K:GVD | N2K:LATAM | N2K:M | N2K:RNP | N2K:TR | N2K:US | N2K:VE   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument LBA0000020040920e09k00cib  



 HDGLOBAL MARKETS-Investors eye Fed, oil price rise.      BYBy Jeremy Gaunt, European Investment Correspondent      WC640 words   PD20 September 2004   ET13:32   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2004 Reuters Limited   
   LPLONDON, Sept 20 (Reuters) - Investors prepared on Monday for an expected hike in U.S. interest rates, lifting the dollar and putting bonds on hold, but higher oil prices and corporate earnings worries hit stocks.   

Oil hovered around $46 a barrel on a mix of weather-and export-related supply disruptions.   
   TDWall Street looked set to open lower.   

The key issue on many investors' horizons was the U.S. Federal Reserve's Tuesday meeting at which it is widely expected to lift interest rates by 25 basis points after similar hikes in June and August.   

This would take the federal funds rate to 1.75 percent, still low but a clawback from essentially emergency levels reached following the bursting of the internet bubble and the September 11, 2001 attacks on the United States.   

"There's always a certain amount of pre-Fed nervousness," said Jeremy Batstone, director of private client research at Charles Stanley in London.   

Investors will be looking for hints about future moves.   

"As at the previous two...meetings, markets will focus on what the Fed says rather than what the Fed does," said American Express Bank in an outlook.   

"In keeping with its recent public comments, we expect a somewhat softer tone: optimism on economic growth sprinkled with some qualifications, plus continuing conviction that inflation pressures have eased."   

One wild card on the inflation front, however, is the volatile price of oil.   

U.S. light crude rose above $46 a barrel, but later slipped back to $45.89, up 30 cents on the day. Russia's YUKOS suspended some oil exports to China and traders remained concerned about storm-related supply disruptions into the United States.   

London's Brent crude was up 20 cents at $42.65 a barrel.   

"When these supply issues crop up in a tight market, there will be bite to prices. I don't see that abating soon," said Daniel Hynes, an industry analyst at ANZ Bank in Sydney.   

"We are going to see prices between the $40-45 range for a while."   

DOLLAR FIRM VS EURO AND YEN   

The dollar held firm against the euro and yen, buoyed by the widespread Fed rate hike expectations.   

"It's unlikely people will be taking big positions in the lead up to the...meeting. (It) will probably maintain a slightly hawkish tone which will give some near term support to the dollar," said Adrian Foster, chief foreign exchange strategist at Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein.   

The euro was a half a percent down from late Friday's closing levels at $1.2136, in the middle of its recent range.   

The dollar was around 0.2 percent firmer on the yen at 109.7 yen, also in the middle of its recent range.   

Japanese markets were closed for a holiday.   

European shares fell as oil prices rose and a profit warning from consumer products giant Unilever fanned concerns over the quality of upcoming corporate results.   

The Anglo-Dutch blue chip trimmed its 2004 earnings guidance after trading in July and August came in below expectations.   

"The warning was unexpected," said David Fineberg, a trader at CMC Group. "This kind of news will strengthen a trend in which people come out of companies that carry high risk and look at potential takeovers and cash-rich companies that inject cash back to the shareholders."   

The FTSE Eurotop 300 index of pan-European blue chips was 0.62 percent weaker while the narrower DJ Euro Stoxx 50 index was 0.8 percent lower.   

Euro zone government bond yields were flat-to-higher with many sitting pat before the Fed meeting on Tuesday.   

The interest rate-sensitive two-year Schatz yield was unchanged at 2.551 percent. The 10-year Bund yield was flat at 4.014 percent.    
   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | m11 : Equity Markets | mcroil : Crude Oil Markets | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m14 : Commodity Markets | m143 : Energy Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REeurz : Europe | eecz : European Union Countries | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe | usa : United States | uk : United Kingdom   IPCN2K:A | N2K:ASIA | N2K:CEN | N2K:DBT | N2K:DNP | N2K:EUROPE | N2K:FRX | N2K:G | N2K:GVD | N2K:INT | N2K:JP | N2K:MF | N2K:NAT | N2K:PGE | N2K:PTD | N2K:RBR | N2K:RNA | N2K:RNP | N2K:STX | N2K:UKI | N2K:US | N2K:WEU | N2K:XX | N2K:YDB   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument LBA0000020040920e09k004pu  



 HDThe Dismal Science: Mr. Greenspan's Strategic Reserve   BYBy Susan Lee    WC993 words   PD20 September 2004   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGA21   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 2004, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LPThere is little doubt that the Federal Reserve is about to pump up the federal-funds rate by 25 basis points to 1.75% as part of Alan Greenspan's kabuki dance to control inflation. It is also a textbook response to oil prices that are now about 35% more expensive than they were at the beginning of the year. But the truly deft and sneaky aspect of the increase is that higher oil prices themselves are probably a result of Mr. Greenspan's really loose monetary policy.

This explanation of the current situation is in fact a mirror image of the one identified by Jeffrey A. Frankel, economist at Harvard's Kennedy School of Government, in the 1980s. ("Expectations and Commodity Price Dynamics: The Overshooting Model," available online.) Back then, real interest rates were high and prices for commodities, including oil, were in a swoon.
   TDMr. Frankel's argument was simple and elegant. Changes in the money supply resulted in changes in real interest rates and the first impact of these changes was seen in prices for commodities. Thus, as real rates went up, commodity prices went down. Consider, then, Mr. Frankel's model applied to what has been happening more recently.

As Mr. Greenspan engineered low real interest rates in 2001-04, the prices of commodities, particularly oil and other minerals, started to climb in advance of a general price increase. Why? The prices of some things, like manufactured goods, are sticky. They don't change very fast because they may be fixed by explicit contracts, there may be imperfect information, or businesspeople may want to postpone the costs attached to changing their prices. Commodity prices, on the other hand, are way more flexible. Since commodity prices are determined by trading on fast-moving auction markets, they respond more swiftly to interest-rate expectations and monetary fluctuations than do consumer prices.

But, in the short run, these faster-adjusting markets overshoot their long-run equilibrium prices. Since some prices are sticky -- or lag behind -- the prices that are free to move, like commodity prices, must move in an exaggerated fashion in order to compensate for the laggards. Thus, commodity prices overshoot their new equilibrium in order to generate an expectation of future depreciation that is sufficient to offset lower interest rates. This skyrocket effect will vanish in the long run.

So Mr. Greenspan's loose monetary policy created low nominal interest rates and an increase in the expected economy-wide inflation rate. Both caused investors to shift out of money and other financial investments into more attractive assets like commodities. In other words, the expectation that prices will increase, and thus that the value of money will fall, causes investors to shift out of money today; at the same time, the demand for -- and therefore the prices of -- alternative assets, like commodities, increases today. Mr. Frankel says: "As a consequence of the increased demand for commodities, expected future inflation has a positive effect on commodity prices in the present."

And the fact that commodity prices overshoot their long-run value is necessary for a rational market anticipation of future depreciation to balance the lower, real interest rate.

Of course, as Mr. Frankel points out, there are other obvious and specific things active in the oil market. On the demand side, world appetite for oil, fueled by China and India, has been gangbusters. (Also important at the margin has been the U.S. policy to fill the Strategic Petroleum Reserve.) As a result, recent global demand for oil has been growing at over 3% as opposed to its average of a touch under 2% over the past decade. And on the supply side, there have been anxieties about the steadiness of production coming from Russia, Venezuela, Nigeria and Iraq.

None of these things is under Mr. Greenspan's control, to be sure, but his ultra-low interest-rate policy did prompt a burst of speculation in the form of the carry trade. Investors, mostly hedge funds, borrowed U.S. dollars to buy higher-yielding oil. Ultra-low interest rates also made it cheaper for speculators to float giant tankers in the middle of the ocean, waiting until prices reached a peak. (Low rates drive this kind of inventory holding in two ways. If the cost of storage is relatively cheap it makes sense to leave the oil in tankers, hoping the price will go up. Similarly, lower interest rates lower the opportunity costs of making other investments.)

The delicious irony of course is that while Mr. Greenspan blames high oil prices for the recent "soft patch" in the economy, he is, in fact, blaming himself.

But after lowering interest rates 13 times, starting in 2001, the Fed began to tighten in June, twice raising the federal-funds rate by 25 basis points. As a tighter monetary policy raises nominal interest rates above the expected rate of inflation, oil prices will fall as speculators cut inventories, producers pump oil faster, and investors shift out of oil into financial instruments.

Even though real interest rates are negative, the expectation of higher rates has already caused oil prices to fall. Speculators started bailing out of oil in August, selling those floating, off-shore cargoes. Likewise, hedge funds have been unwinding their carry trade positions. And, thus, oil prices have declined since hitting a high of almost $50 a barrel in August.

Of course nobody can predict with daily accuracy what will happen to oil prices if the Fed nudges up the federal-funds rate tomorrow. Even with some of the speculative premium gone, there is still a big, fat risk premium in the market. But one thing is for sure -- it will be a tiny step toward undoing the spike that Mr. Greenspan has nurtured.

---

Ms. Lee is a member of the Journal's editorial board. 

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | ecat : Economic News | gvexe : Executive Branch | nedc : Commentary/Opinion | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCFED | USG | NND | OED   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument J000000020040920e09k0001l  



 CLMU.S. Credit Markets   HDFed's Longer-Term Plans Are Focus --- Quarter-Point Rate Boost Is Expected Tomorrow; Next Steps of More Interest      BYBy Agnes T. Crane Dow Jones Newswires      WC712 words   PD20 September 2004   SNThe Asian Wall Street Journal   SCAWSJ   PGM10   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2004 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. To see the edition in which this article appeared, click here   http://awsj.com.hk/factiva-ns
   LPNEW YORK -- The U.S. Federal Reserve will come into sharp focus for the bond market when it meets tomorrow to decide on interest rates and perhaps provide greater clarity on what it plans to do for the next year.   

For many in the bond market, a quarter-percentage-point increase in the federal-funds target rate to 1.75% is a foregone conclusion, given the drumbeat of comments from Fed officials insisting that rates need to be higher.   
   TDWhat is less clear is whether the Fed will take a break from raising rates in the not-so-distant future to determine how the economy is performing with less monetary stimulus in the system. For clues, market participants will turn to the Fed committee's policy statement tomorrow for hints of a change in its measured-pace mantra that had led investors earlier this year to expect a quarter-percentage-point rate increase at every meeting through year end.   

Weaker U.S. economic data recently, including disappointing gains in payrolls and declines in retail sales, have deepened concerns among investors that a soft patch in the economy is developing into something more permanent.   

Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan, who told Congress in July that the slowdown in the economy would prove temporary, noted more recently that the economy had "regained some traction" and that inflation expectations had moderated. His language, however, failed to convince fixed-income investors that the all clear had been sounded. Many now expect the Fed to take a step back after it lifts its short-term rate target to 1.75% or 2% this year.   

"The market is really starting to wake up to the fact that the Fed has a lot more breathing room here," said J.P. Marra, head of U.S. government-bond trading at Lehman Brothers. Combine this with technicals in the market, and "it's a recipe for steady to lower yields," he said.   

Though some bond investors have begun to pare back bearish bets on interest rates in recent weeks, traders believe that many have stuck with those positions. But with the benchmark 10-year note's yield still far below the 4.9% level seen earlier this year, the bond bears are wavering.   

If the Fed delivers a boilerplate statement similar to the one issued at its last meeting, however, a relief selloff in Treasurys should occur, traders said.   

Investors are likely to focus on quarter-end portfolio adjustments after the Fed meeting, said Ken Fan, interest-rate strategist at ABN Amro in New York, who believes the performance of the stock market over the next two weeks also could have an impact on bonds. Around the end of each quarter, money managers assess asset allocations. If bonds continue to outperform equities, Mr. Fan expects to see inflows from stocks into fixed-income assets.   

Friday, Treasurys retreated as traders booked profits after a strong rally Thursday. At 4 p.m. in New York, the benchmark 10-year note was down 13/32 point, or $4.06 per $1,000 face value, at 101. Its yield rose to 4.127% from 4.078% Thursday, as yields move inversely to prices. The 30-year bond was down 18/32 point at 106 22/32 to yield 4.920%, up from 4.883%.   

---   

Other Market Activity   

In the biggest U.S. junk-bond, or high-yield, deal since mid-August, triple-C-rated Vanguard Health Systems Inc. sold a $700 million, Rule 144a private placement. The larger of two parts, $575 million of senior subordinated notes due in 2014 and noncallable for five years, was priced to yield 9%, via Citigroup Global Markets and Bank of America's Banc of America Securities. Vanguard is in the process of being bought out by Blackstone Group for $1.75 billion.   

"That's pretty attractive pricing," said Leo Dierckman, portfolio manager at 40/86 Advisors Inc. of Indiana. Nonetheless, he passed on the deal, saying he wasn't completely comfortable with Vanguard Health's business story.   

---   

Tom Sullivan contributed to this article.   
   NSm12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | e1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCFED | TRE | USG | NCY | NND | TPX | CRD | MIM   PUBDow Jones & Company Inc.   ANDocument AWSJ000020040919e09k00021  



 HDForex - Dollar higher in cautious trade ahead of US rate decision; pound drops     WC621 words   PD20 September 2004   SNAFX Asia   SCAFXASI   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2004, AFX Asia. All rights reserved.  
   LP   Forex - Dollar higher in cautious trade ahead of US rate decision; pound drops     LONDON (XFN-ASIA) - The dollar was slightly higher in cautious trade  ahead of tomorrow's US interest rate decision, while sterling dropped after a  series of data gave more evidence of cooling in the UK housing market.     The Federal Reserve is widely expected to raise interest rates by a  quarter point tomorrow to take the fed funds target rate to 1.75 pct. Since  this is now fully priced in by the market, investors will be looking to the  Fed's accompanying statement for clues on the future direction of interest  rates.     "The Fed is widely expected to raise interest rates by a quarter tomorrow  for the third time since June," said analysts at Sucden.  
   TD "However analysts  are watching closely for any indication of whether the Fed intends to pause  this year in raising rates."      Recent indicators including below-consensus regional manufacturing data  and soft inflation data last week, have cast doubt on the strength of the US  economy and the pace of rate increases to come, they said, with the  possibility of rapid rate hikes looking increasingly unlikely.     However, most analysts expect to see the Fed maintain its upbeat  assessment on the US economy and to further reinforce Fed chairman Alan  Greenspan's view that the economy is regaining traction. If this is not the  case, this will be negative for the dollar.     "Any hint that the Fed is now contemplating a pause in the process of  regular 25 basis point rate increases would be hugely damaging for the dollar, " said Steve Pearson, currency analyst at HBOS.     Still, Pearson said the Fed is unlikely to make such hints, leaving the  dollar pretty much range-bound.     Elsewhere, the pound weakened after a string of data released this  morning provided further evidence that the UK housing market is cooling,  suggesting that the Bank of England's five interest rate hikes since November  are taking their toll.     Most analysts expect just one more rate hike in November, which would  take the base rate to 5.0 pct.     Figures released this morning by the Building Societies Association, the  British Bankers Association and the Council of Mortgage Lenders all showed  that UK mortgage lending slowed in August. The BSA also reported a slump in  mortgage approvals, a gauge of future demand.     Today's data puts a dampener on Friday's surprisingly strong UK retail  sales figures, which suggested that those in the market who had begun to  think that interest rates may have already hit their peak were jumping the  gun a little.     The focus of attention for sterling, however, will be Wednesday's release  of the minutes from the BoE Monetary Policy Committee's September meeting.     The MPC is expected to have voted unanimously to keep policy unchanged.  But CALYON analysts noted that the policy discussion "could nevertheless  contain some dovish-sounding comments", given the recent evidence of a  slowdown in housing inflation as well as in consumption growth, despite  Friday's solid retail sales numbers.       London 11.15 GMT          London 0815 GMT      US dollar      yen 109.78    up from     109.74     sfr 1.2745    up from     1.2719      Euro      usd 1.2133   down from    1.2154     stg 0.6804    up from     0.6975     yen 133.21   down from    133.37     sfr 1.5465    up from     1.5454      Sterling      usd 1.7837   down from    1.7885     yen 195.79   down from    196.34     sfr 2.2728   down from    2.2747      Australian dollar      usd 0.6988   unchanged     stg 0.3917    up from     0.3907     yen 76.71     up from     76.70     jessica.mortimer@afxnews.com     jkm/cw    MMMM      
   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBXinhua Financial Network Limited   ANDocument AFXASI0020040920e09k004xt  



 HDMarkets question when Fed will pause on rate hikes     BYBUR     WC635 words   PD20 September 2004   ET17:24   SNAgence France Presse   SCAFPR   LAEnglish   CYCopyright Agence France-Presse, 2004 All reproduction and presentation rights reserved.  
   LPWASHINGTON, Sept 20 (AFP) -  

With little doubt about the Federal Reserve's plans for a quarter-point rate hike, financial markets were focusing on another question: When will the Fed stop?  
   TDBased on signals from central bank officials, economists say the Federal Open Market Committee, which meets Tuesday, is almost certain to make its third rate hike since June 30, boosting the federal funds rate to 1.75 percent.  

"It's been a pretty well-telegraphed policy over the past few months," said Tim McGee, chief economist at US Trust Corp.  

But observers say Fed chairman Alan Greenspan and his colleagues, who have pledged a "measured" effort to bring up interest rates from their lowest levels in decades, must think hard before taking base rates up much higher.  

David Rosenberg, chief North American economist at Merrill Lynch, said the Fed is moving to get base rates up to two perent as part of a "normalization" of rates, but that the economy is still too fragile for a series of steep increases.  

"Our two percent peak forecast for Fed funds has taken a lot of folks by surprise, but ... does anyone really believe that a 300-400 basis-point Fed tightening cycle wouldn't generate a recession?"  

Greenspan has argued that the economy is gaining traction after a "soft patch," but some argue that the recovery is still fragile and could be choked off by a number of factors, including higher rates.  

Sung Won Sohn, chief economist at Wells Fargo, said he sees a "two-stage" effort to get the federal funds rate to about four percent, as the central bank removes the stimulus it had been injecting in recent years.  

"Now that the economy is growing, the FOMC is getting ready to tackle inflation if it becomes a problem in 2005," he said.  

"The Federal Reserve wants to reach the neutral interest rate where it neither helps nor hurts the economy by the end of 2005. Most economists believe it is in the 3.0 to 5.0 percent range given current and expected economic conditions."  

The debate is open among economist about whether the Fed will pause at one or both of its next two meetinfs, November 10 and December 14.  

"There is increasing speculation that if the economic data doesn't show some more strength, they might stop raising rates. Some people think they may stop at this (September) one," McGee said.  

"There are periods they may pause and there will be periods they accelerate the process, but I think broadly speaking we should expect to see rate hikes throughout all of '05 into '06," said Mark Zandi, chief economist at Economy.com.  

"December is now the most likely date for a pause," said Avery Shenfeld, an economist for CIBC World Markets.  

Economists differ on whether this pause will last based on their views on the economy.  

Those who think the economy will struggle believe the pause could last, while those who think the economy is on firm footing expect rate hikes to quickly resume in February.  

This split is reflected in the market, with the futures market showing a 50-50 split over the odds of a rate hike in February.  

Shenfeld, for one, said the pause could last several quarters because it will be clear by December that growth will be disappointing.  

"I expect to see the fourth quarter softer again. Once we're through these clear-out sales of cars and other items, we'll return to a slower pace for consumer spending," he said.  

But Zandi said that it would take a serious slowdown to keep the Fed from tightening.  

"The hurdle for them not to continue on this measured path is quite high," Zandi said.  

bur-rl/sg  
   COschwab : The Charles Schwab Corporation   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | i831 : Financial Investments | i83105 : Online Brokers/After Hours Trading | ibnk : Banking/Credit | iint : Internet/Online Services | iinv : Investing/Securities   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPDUS | economy | bank | rates sched   PUBAgence France Presse   ANDocument AFPR000020040920e09k0063m  
 Page 1 of 1      2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.


 

 Page 1      2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.

