 


 SETHE AMERICAS   HDFed's error highlights policy role of inflation.   BYBy ANDREW BALLS    WC646 words   PD4 May 2005   SNFinancial Times   SCFTFT   EDUSA Ed2   PGPage 2   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2005 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPFew 150-word statements are read as widely and as closely as the one accompanying the Federal Reserve's interest rate decisions.

The fact that the Fed yesterday chose to own up to an error - and face criticism from traders - demonstrated the importance of making a judgment on inflation expectations in setting monetary policy.
   TDThe seven words the Fed omitted just after 2.15pm, and reinserted just before 4pm, amounted to the same judgment given in each of its previous four meetings: "Longer-term inflation expectations remain well contained."

Well behaved inflation expectations, together with still robust productivity growth, have allowed the central bank to proceed in "measured" quarter point increments as it has raised its target federal funds rate from 1 per cent last June to 3 per cent yesterday.

"If inflation expectations rise, then that's how you get inflation embedded in wage demands and the pricing system," said Joshua Feinman, chief economist at Deutsche Asset Management. "This is the kind of pernicious inflation they want to avoid."

Having to resort to more aggressive rate increases would have disturbed financial markets considerably more than yesterday's error.

The Fed looks at various measures of inflation expectations, including the spread between the yield on the 10-year Treasury note and the yield on Treasury inflation-protected securities.

Alan Greenspan, Fed chairman, favours a measure based on disaggregating long-term interest rates, using information from futures markets, to see what inflation expectations look like in each of the next 10 years.

Such measures remained reassuring, economists said yesterday. However, the Fed also pays close attention to surveys of consumer expectations. The Michigan survey, released last week, indicated just the kind of increase in long-term expectations that the Fed does not want to see.

Yesterday's mistake was embarrassing for a central bank that has placed such emphasis on its communication with markets as a means of driving policy.

The Fed said human error was to blame. A spokesman declined to comment on whether the confusion followed a discussion among members of the Federal Open Market Committee as to whether the assurance was still warranted.

But the other change on the inflation language did - purposefully - indicate increased concern about inflation pressure.

The FOMC dropped its judgment that higher headline inflation was not feeding into higher core inflation.

Fed policymakers have been relatively relaxed about the high headline inflation rate, driven by the oil price. But there is growing concern over possible effects on business pricing decisions as well as consumer expectations.

Ian Shepherdson, at High Frequency Economics, said the net effect of the corrected statement was to make the Fed's message a bit less stark. But, he added in a note to clients, the clear signal remained that: rates were still too low; inflation pressures were building; and the slowdown was nothing like severe enough to induce a pause in the rate increases.

The solid pace of spending growth might have slowed a bit, the statement said, but this was in large part the result of high energy prices. At most this suggested the Fed sees the recent lull as another soft-patch, similar to the short-lived slowdown last summer.

Hardening the language on inflation offset the Fed's acknowledgement of recent weaker economic data. Since the FOMC does not meet again until the end of June, it has plenty of time to watch the data.

Mickey Levy, chief economist at Bank of America, said in prescient fashion after the first version of yesterday's statement was issued: "I would not emphasise the tweaking of the language as much as the fact that, after eight rate increases, the Fed acknowledged that policy remains accommodative and said it will continue to raise rates at a measured pace." Lex, Page 14 
   RF20050504U202.077   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | e1103 : Inflation/Prices | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTFT000020050504e1540005v  



 SECAPITAL MARKETS &COMMODITIES   HDFactory orders data spur selling GOVERNMENT BONDS.   BYBy RICHARD BEALES and JOANNA CHUNG    WC433 words   PD4 May 2005   SNFinancial Times   SCFTFT   EDLondon Ed1   PGPage 45   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2005 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPTrading in the US Treasury market was light and prices stayed within a narrow range yesterday as traders awaited the interest rate decision from the US Federal Open Market Committee.

Stronger-than-expected data on factory orders prompted some selling of bonds but did little to clarify conflicting signals about the economic outlook emerging from the world's largest economy in recent weeks.
   TDSo while it was widely expected that the Federal Reserve would raise short-term interest rates by 0.25 per cent to 3 per cent - to make it the eighth successive increase - investors were poised to react to any change in the outlook on inflation and economic growth, or in the Fed's "measured" approach to interest rate rises in the accompanying statement.

Ahead of the Fed announcement, yields on 10-year Treasuries were unchanged at 4.198 per cent during New York's mid-afternoon trading. The yield on the two-year note was yielding 3.637 per cent.

Activity was also muted in the eurozone and UK government bond markets ahead of the Fed decision. But yields on eurozone government bonds hit new historic lows as market expectations for a rate hike this year dimmed.

The yield on the 10-year Bund reached 3.373 per cent before rising slightly to 3.376 per cent, down 2.2bp on the day. The two-year Schatz was also 2.2bp lower at 2.213 per cent.

Though the European Central Bank was widely expected to keep rates steady at 2 per cent when it makes its announcement today, the steady stream of gloomy economic news has stirred murmurings in the market of a possible cut in interest rates later this year.

"The absence of a turnround in the labour market in Germany, and in the eurozone more generally, will therefore be an added reason for the ECB to keep rates on hold this year," said Julien Seetharamdoo, economist at Capital Economics.

Concerns about growth also came to the fore in the UK, where retailers reported the worst sales volume for over 10 years in April, while data showed that the manufacturing sector had contracted for the first time in almost two years. As a result, prices of gilts rose and yields on the 10-year bond fell 2.9bp to 4.508 per cent, while the two-year gilt yield also lost 2.9bp to 4.483 per cent.

Markets in Japan were closed for the Golden Week public holidays. 
   RF20050504L145.006   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSm12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mntdbt : National Government Debt/Bond Markets | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets   REgfr : Germany | uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTFT000020050504e1540003k  



 HDFT.com site : Fed policy watchers find language less helpful.   BYAndrew Balls in Washington    WC631 words   PD4 May 2005   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2005 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPSince the Federal Reserve started to provide explicit forward-looking guidance in late 2003 it has repeatedly increased its flexibility to respond to events.

Some economists think maximum flexibility has been achieved and the forward-looking language is no longer providing much guidance. Paul McCulley, Fed-watcher at Pimco, the giant bond fund, said: "The statement has been tortured to the point where it is not particularly illuminating now."
   TDWhen it raised rates to 3 per cent this week, the Federal Open Market Committee maintained that monetary policy remained "accommodative" or too low to be consistent with price stability over time. It also said that it expected to continue with a "measured" pace of tightening, generally seen as indicating quarter-point increases, but which most Fed policymakers see as consistent with more aggressive rate increases or with no change at the next meeting.

It acknowledged the recent slower economic data, while linking this to earlier increases in energy prices, and also increased inflation risks, acknowledging implicitly that energy prices were now feeding into increased core inflationary pressures.

Balanced growth and inflation risks are predicated on its assumption of appropriate monetary action.

"Their statement is loaded with contingencies now. The market is getting much more uncertain about where the Fed is going in the next few months," said Ethan Harris, chief US economist at Lehman Brothers.

Before the recent spate of weaker economic data, futures markets were pricing in a 4 per cent federal funds rate at the end of the year, implying continuing quarter-point increases and just one pause, probably in thin trading before Christmas. The market is now pricing in close to 3.75 per cent at year end and hardly higher during 2006.

However, Lehman's "Fediscope" model which provides the probability of different outcomes based on futures market pricing and risk spreads points to a 40 per cent chance of a 3.5 per cent federal funds rate after the September meeting, a 26 per cent chance of 3.75 per cent and a 22 per cent chance of 3.25 per cent.

That is probably just how the Fed wants it, given the uncertainty in the economic outlook. If over the two months before its next meeting the data show that the slowdown in growth is more than a soft patch, or that inflation risks demand decisive action, the Fed can act accordingly. For now, the market is playing a useful stabilising role.

"Given the recent softness in the data, committee members are probably thankful that the market is not pricing in too much tightening and that broad financial conditions are accommodative. Six weeks ago they were more concerned that their interest rate increases were getting more traction," said Brian Sack, at Macroeconomic Advisers, the consultancy. Macroeconomic Advisers, along with many professional forecasters, expects a more aggressive Fed, with stronger growth later in the year leading to a federal funds rate climbing to 4.5 per cent next year.

A number of Fed-watchers suggest that the June meeting, before chairman Alan Greenspan's twice-yearly testimony before Congress, will be when the committee chooses to make significant changes to its statement.

Mr McCulley, who thinks the Fed has almost finished raising rates, said he expected the Fed to take the same approach as in May 1994, when the statement declared it had "substantially removed" its policy accommodation.

"What I think we are coming up to, most likely at the end of June, is that they declare that they have substantially removed accommodation," he said, at the same time as they dropped the measured pace language. "Then Mr Greenspan can take a bow at his final Humphrey Hawkins testimony in July." 
   RF42146959   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTCOM00020050505e1540003n  



 HDInterest rates going up again _ and the end's not in sight     BYBy JEANNINE AVERSA     CRAP Economics Writer   WC816 words   PD4 May 2005   ET02:32   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2005.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.  
   LPWASHINGTON (AP) - The Federal Reserve, worried about rising inflation, pushed a key interest rate higher and signaled that Americans' borrowing costs are likely to keep climbing in the months ahead.  

In response, commercial banks began lifting their prime lending rates, which are used for many short-term consumer and business loans.  
   TDFederal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan and his colleagues, sticking to a course of gradually raising rates, nudged up the federal funds rate Tuesday by one-quarter of a percentage point, to 3 percent. It was the eighth increase of that size since the Fed began to tighten credit last June, and it left the rate at the highest level since the fall of 2001.  

Banks' prime lending rates were rising a quarter-point to 6 percent, also the highest since 2001.  

The federal funds rate, the interest banks charge each other on overnight loans, is now triple the 1 percent rate -- a 46-year low -- that prevailed before the Fed embarked on its rate-raising campaign.  

Fed policy-makers, walking a tightrope, are confronted with two challenging economic forces: rising inflation pressures on the one hand and slowing economic growth on the other.  

Higher interest rates are a defense against rising inflation. But when it is more expensive to borrow money, some consumers and businesses are less inclined to spend and invest, factors that would further chill an already cooling economy.  

The policy-makers, in a brief statement issued after their closed-door meeting, acknowledged that the economy had hit a rough patch in early spring. "The solid pace of spending growth has slowed somewhat, partly in response to the earlier increases in energy prices," they said.  

Oil prices soared into record territory in March and hit a new peak of $57.27 a barrel at the beginning of April -- straining household and business budgets. Prices have since retreated and settled at $49.50 a barrel on Tuesday.  

The Fed also drew fresh attention to rising prices in general.  

"Pressures on inflation have picked up in recent months and pricing power is more evident," the statement said, a reference to businesses finding it easier to raise prices to customers. But it tempered that inflation warning with an assessment that longer-term inflation expectations remain "well contained." That phrase was inadvertently omitted from the Fed's statement. It later issued a corrected version to include it.  

The Fed also said underlying inflation -- which excludes energy and food prices -- is "expected to be contained."  

Against that backdrop, the Fed said it could continue on its path of gradually raising rates. In Fed parlance that is stated as "at a pace that is likely to be measured." To analysts, that phrase translates into quarter-point increases.  

On Wall Street, the Dow Jones industrials gained 5.25 points to close at 10,256.95.  

Private analysts expect the Fed to boost rates by another quarter-point at its next meeting June 29-30 and probably through much of this year. That said, they also believe the Fed's future rate decisions could become increasingly more dependent on how inflation and economic activity unfold.  

"The Fed, while acknowledging the slowdown in the economy, is focused more on inflation. That means their work is not done," said Stuart Hoffman, chief economist at PNC Financial Services Group. "The Fed will become even more of a data hound and not quite as much on automatic pilot" when it comes to raising rates.  

For economists and investors, that's a subtle shift in their perceptions. At the Fed's previous meeting, on March 22, policy-makers' hawkish tone about inflation ignited speculation that the central bank might raise rates more aggressively -- possibly by a bolder half-point -- in the summer. That spooked Wall Street, sending stocks tumbling.  

Since that meeting, however, the economy has flashed signs of slowing.  

Over the first three months of the year, the economy grew at a 3.1 percent annual rate, the slowest in two years as energy prices restrained spending by individuals and companies. Some economists believe growth in the April-to-June period could be even less.  

Employers added just 110,000 jobs in March, the fewest in eight months. April's employment report comes out Friday, and economists predict it will show that 170,000 jobs were created.  

Fed policy-makers, however, said labor market conditions "continue to improve gradually."  

Inflation, meanwhile, is climbing. Driven by expensive gasoline and energy products, overall consumer prices jumped by 0.6 percent in March, the biggest increase since October.  

Even more troubling to economists was the 0.4 percent rise in core inflation -- a gauge that excludes energy and food prices. That was the largest increase in 2 1/2 years.  

------  

On the Net:  

Federal Reserve:  http://www.federalreserve.gov/ 
   RF7   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPCtagpf0wcat | sel----- | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | NA FIN ECO US Fed Interest Rates | D89S1G380   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020050504e154000h7  



 HDFed Keeps Focus on Inflation, Raising Rates Again --- Expected Rise to 3% Comes As Bond Market Appears Concerned About Recession   BYBy Greg Ip    WC1,148 words   PD4 May 2005   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGA1   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 2005, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LPWith both economic growth and inflation taking a turn for the worse, the Federal Reserve signaled that for now, inflation is its priority.

The Fed yesterday raised its target for the federal-funds rate to 3% from 2.75%, its eighth quarter-percentage-point increase in as many meetings, and said it planned to keep raising rates at a "measured" pace -- taken to mean no more than a quarter-percentage point per meeting.
   TDThe widely expected move brings the rate, charged on overnight loans between banks, to its highest level since the weeks after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks.

The Federal Open Market Committee, the Fed's interest-rate panel, faces conflicting trends. Job growth, retail sales and business investment all softened in March. Such developments normally call for looser monetary policy. At the same time, inflation has risen, as companies pass higher energy and raw-material costs on to consumers. That would normally call for tighter monetary policy.

In its action and words yesterday, the Fed demonstrated that while it is concerned about both trends, it puts more weight on inflation.

Spending growth has "slowed somewhat, partly in response to the earlier increases in energy prices," the Fed said. That suggests the Fed considers the slowdown temporary: Energy prices have declined in recent weeks, and claims for unemployment insurance declined in April. The Fed said job-market conditions "apparently continue to improve gradually."

On inflation, the Fed repeated a line from its March 22 statement that "pressures on inflation have picked up in recent months and pricing power is more evident." But it omitted a sentence from March 22 that said higher energy prices had yet to feed through to consumers.

The omission follows two months of elevated gains in consumer prices that have lifted inflation excluding food and energy, according to the Fed's preferred price index, from 1.2% early last year to 1.7% in March. That's at the top of the 1.5% to 1.75% range Fed officials had forecast for later this year.

As it did after its four prior meetings, the Fed said inflation expectations are "well contained." But in an unusual error, the statement first issued at 2:15 p.m. EDT didn't include that sentence. Wall Street analysts at first pounced on the omission as evidence of even greater inflation worries, noting a recent University of Michigan consumer survey found higher expected inflation.

"Any time a central bank removes a phrase that long-term inflation expectations remain well contained from a statement, we should take notice," J.P. Morgan Chase initially said in a note to clients.

The Fed corrected the statement at around 4 p.m. A Fed spokeswoman said the sentence was in the actual draft statement that FOMC members discussed in their meeting. The omission occurred inadvertently when Fed staff were preparing it for public release, she said. The omission was noticed by a Fed staffer and corrected immediately, she said. The gyrations of markets and analysts in response to the error and subsequent correction attest to the enormous impact just a few of the Fed's words now carry.

Changes to the federal-funds rate ripple out to rates charged on a variety of consumer and business savings-and-loan rates. Commercial banks announced that they were raising their prime lending rate, the benchmark for many loans, to 6% from 5.75%. The Fed also raised its less-important discount rate, charged on short-term central-bank loans to commercial banks, to 4% from 3.75%.

Eleven of the 12 voting members of the 19-member Federal Open Market Committee voted in favor of the rate change. Governor Ben Bernanke has recused himself from FOMC deliberations as he awaits confirmation to become chairman of President Bush's Council of Economic Advisers.

Fed officials have puzzled over why the yield on the 10-year Treasury bond is lower now than it was when the Fed started raising rates last June. Yields, which reflect in part expectations for where the federal-funds rate will be, normally rise when the Fed tightens. Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan in February called low yields a "conundrum," suggesting that he thinks the federal-funds rate would go higher this year than the 3.75% the futures market now expects. His remarks helped send the Treasury yield from below 4.2% to above 4.6% during the winter, but it has since returned to below 4.2%.

"The markets are always a little ahead of the Fed," said Peter McTeague, interest-rate strategist at RBS Greenwich Capital. "It's less of a conundrum why rates are here because the trajectory of the economy is different from what it was a few weeks ago."

"The bond market is telling us the risk of recession is higher than the Fed thinks," Kevin Hassett, economist at the American Enterprise Institute, told a panel discussion hosted by the institute. Inflation isn't the risk that the Fed seems to think it is, Mr. Hassett said, because it reflects global, not U.S., demand for oil and other commodities.

Data in the next eight weeks, including Friday's jobs report, will help determine whether the Fed or the bond market is right. Continued softness could force the Fed to reconsider its hawkish stance and its "measured" pace.

The use of "measured" has been a source of growing debate inside the central bank. Some officials believe the phrase limits their flexibility, and gives investors a false sense of certainty about the Fed's actions. Most officials feel it gives the markets useful information but acknowledge that as inflation pressures mount and the federal-funds rate approaches a more normal level, the sentence will have to go.

But the word survives in part out of worries that dropping it would elevate expectations of an imminent shift to bigger rate increases. The Federal Reserve Bank of New York's trading desk asked bond dealers last week if they expected "measured" to change, and how they would interpret such a change.

Bank of America chief economist Mickey Levy said that rather than scrap "measured," the Fed can "just use more and more descriptive language to describe economic and inflation conditions and let that more colorful language supersede the importance of the term measured."

Mr. McTeague said minutes of the Fed's March 22 meeting "suggest measured could mean anything. . . . They watered down the meaning of it, but the fact they left it in there probably comforts some people in the markets."

---

Journal Link: WSJ.com subscribers can see a graphic scrutinizing the Fed's statement and read economists' reactions to the rate increase, at WSJ.com/JournalLinks. 

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | ecat : Economic News | gvexe : Executive Branch | gvtre : Treasury Department | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m131 : Money Markets | npag : Page-One Story | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | c311 : Domestic Markets | reqrbc : Editor's Choice - Banking/Credit | c31 : Marketing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | reqr : Editor's Choice - Industry Trends/Analysis   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCEMB | FED | TRE | USG | NND | TPX | MHD | PGO | TPT   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument J000000020050504e1540004c  



 CLMTuesday's Markets   HDFed's Inflation Redo Spurs Mini-Rally   BYBy E.S. Browning    WC931 words   PD4 May 2005   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGC1   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 2005, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LPSTOCKS EKED OUT small, last-minute gains after the Federal Reserve suddenly revised its statement on interest-rate policy, but the process left stocks still down for the year and investors still nervous.

After meeting to raise the Fed's target for short-term interest rates to 3% from 2.75%, as expected, policy makers issued a statement that omitted some reassuring comments on inflation that had appeared in previous statements. After gyrating, stocks headed down in late trading. But then, just before regular trading ended, the Fed revised its statement, an exceptional move. It added back a sentence reading, "Longer-term inflation expectations remain well contained."
   TDWith that, the Dow Jones Industrial Average rebounded almost 49 points in a matter of minutes, finishing with a gain of 5.25 points, or 0.05%, at 10256.95. It still is down 4.9% for 2005.

The last-minute revision helped salve fears that the Fed had turned more aggressive on inflation and might be raising interest rates more than expected. But, for all the drama, the day left investors with the same uncertainty that had preoccupied them before the meeting began: Are Federal Reserve rate increases going to stifle the economy, or is steady economic growth going to continue generating strong corporate profits?

"We have been looking for something to change the uneasy balance that we have been contending with for the better part of a month, which is that indications about the economy and profits have been relatively positive, but higher interest rates could be a killer," said Brian Pears, head stock trader at Victory Capital Management, the money-management arm of KeyCorp in Cleveland. "The Fed didn't do anything to change that balance. Every news release now will be looked at to see if it changes the balance."

The next big news comes Friday, when the government releases data on April job creation, unemployment and wages, which will provide a much-awaited indicator of how strong the economy really is.

Looking further ahead, investors widely expect the Fed to raise rates at least another half percentage point to 3.5% to get rates back to a "neutral" level, just a bit above inflation. The disagreement is about how much higher the Fed's base rates will go.

In the short run, the Fed's move will make life more expensive for families and businesses alike. Major banks, including Bank of America, J.P. Morgan Chase and Wachovia, boosted their prime lending rates, the base rates for a wide variety of loans, to 6% from 5.75%.

The last-minute revision to the Fed statement left analyst debating whether the Fed has become more "hawkish" on interest rates. Investors were reassured that the Fed retained a phrase promising that future rate increases will be "measured."

But they were unhappy that even after the revision, the Fed had deleted a phrase to the effect that higher oil prices weren't pushing up other prices. Economists concluded that the Fed doesn't plan to end its rate-increase campaign soon, as some had hoped.

"The clear signal remains that (a) rates are still too low, (b) inflation pressures are building and, (c) the [economic] slowdown is nothing like severe enough to induce a pause in the rate hikes," concluded Ian Shepherdson, chief U.S. economist at High Frequency Economics. He called the statement's revision "bizarre" but said it probably was just human error.

Almost lost in the confusion over the Fed's statement was a plunge in crude-oil futures of $1.42, or 2.8%, to a 21/2-month low of $49.50 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Crude is down 13.6% since finishing at a 22-year high of $57.27 on April 1, but it still is up 14% for 2005.

The Nasdaq Composite Index rose 0.23%, or 4.42 points, to 1933.07, still down 11% this year. Bond prices also rose slightly. But the broad Standard &Poor's 500-stock index didn't quite get into positive territory, down 0.09%, or 0.99 point, at 1161.17, and a decline of 4.2% so far this year.

It remains to be seen whether the late-day stock rebound was the start of a more lasting recovery or just a knee-jerk reaction to the last-minute news. Sometimes, market reactions to a Fed announcement can lead to a lasting stock move, but sometimes, after taking a night to reflect, investors change their minds.

The next Fed meeting is almost two months away, at the end of June, but already analysts are starting to debate what the central bank is likely to do.

Outside the U.S., stocks advanced in dollar terms. The Dow Jones World Stock Index, excluding U.S. stocks, rose 0.38%, or 0.63 point, to 167.80.

In major U.S. market action:

Stocks were mixed. On the Big Board, where 1.67 billion shares traded, 1,610 stocks rose and 1,679 fell.

Bonds gained. The 10-year Treasury note rose 5/32, or $1.5625 for each $1,000 invested, pushing the yield down to 4.178%. The 30-year bond was up 11/32 to yield 4.495%.

The dollar weakened. Late in New York, it traded at 104.92 yen, down from 105.01, while the euro rose against the dollar to $1.2887 from $1.2860. 



License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | m11 : Equity Markets | gpersf : Personal Finance | gvtre : Treasury Department | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m131 : Money Markets | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mntdbt : National Government Debt/Bond Markets | nsum : News Digest | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | glife : Living/Lifestyle | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | gvexe : Executive Branch | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | niwe : IWE Filter   REjap : Japan | usa : United States | asiaz : Asia | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America   IPCPIC | TRE | USG | STT | JPY | NND | TPX | USD | MIM | PMK | TFR | TPT   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument J000000020050504e1540003r  


 CLMCredit Markets   HDBonds Take Comfort From Fed's Mea Culpa --- Treasurys Rise After Bank Corrects Statement to Show Inflation-Fight Confidence   BYBy Grainne McCarthy Dow Jones Newswires    WC801 words   PD4 May 2005   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGC5   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 2005, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LPFinancial markets accustomed to the Federal Reserve's fine-tuned communications strategy got a rude awakening yesterday, when the central bank issued a late amendment to its policy statement that appeared to modestly alter its assessment of inflation.

The benchmark 10-year Treasury note, which had slipped modestly in the wake of the Federal Open Market Committee's original statement, ended the day higher, while shorter-dated issues managed to pare their losses after the Fed reinserted into its policy statement the line that "longer-term inflation expectations remain well contained."
   TDThe apparent dropping of that line in the FOMC's earlier statement, issued at 2:15 p.m. EDT, had been pounced on by many in the markets as evidence of a more-hawkish bent from the Fed, as well as proof that it didn't intend to pause at any point in its monetary-tightening cycle. The correction, released just before 4 p.m., seemed to alter that view, fueling gains in bond prices.

"As a further irony, the bond-market rally after the Fed's revision to the statement has been larger than would have been the case if the Fed had left the sentence in to begin with," said Alan Ruskin, head of research at financial consultancy 4Cast in New York.

At 4 p.m., the benchmark 10-year note was up 5/32, or $1.56 per $1,000 face value, at 98 19/32. Its yield fell to 4.178% from 4.196% on Monday. The 30-year bond was up 11/32 at 113 11/32 to yield 4.495%, down from 4.515%.

Economists' reactions to the Fed's stumble were more measured than participants in the financial markets, where mistakes cost money.

Andy Brenner, head of institutional fixed income at Investec in New York, blasted the Fed for its mistake and for when the correction was announced, given that markets had little time to fix bad positions. He noted "there is mass confusion" about what the Fed was trying to accomplish. The bank said the wording was "dropped inadvertently."

The topsy-turvy market moves came despite a sense that the Fed's underlying message remains unchanged from its last policy communique, in March: it intends to continue to raise interest rates against a backdrop of higher inflation.

"The confirmation from the FOMC that they were unable to complete a `cut and paste' and inadvertently excluded the comment on long-term inflation expectations fits with the evidence that inflation expectations are at least as contained as they were back at the March meeting," said Mr. Ruskin.

In the end, noted Stephen Stanley, chief economist at RBS Greenwich in Greenwich, Conn., the Fed turned out to be "exactly where we thought (they were) albeit two hours later than expected: the growth assessment was downgraded, but the core inflation outlook is more threatening."

The confidence was further underlined by a narrowing of the benchmark-Treasury yield curve, with the difference between the two- and 10-year yields flattening to 0.53 from 0.55 percentage point. That is a level not seen since March 2001 and underscores the bond market's faith that the central bank will keep inflation pressures contained by staying on the path of measured rate increases.

"Inflation is more of a concern, but they are not panicking and the Fed is saying that although economic growth is somewhat slower, they are staying on the path of measured rate hikes," said Dominic Konstam, head of interest-rate strategy at Credit Suisse First Boston in New York.

With another quarter-point rate increase set to arrive in June, Mr. Konstam expects the yield curve to grind flatter, toward the 0.40-percentage-point area.

Over the past 16 months, the curve has experienced a strong flattening trajectory -- kicking off from around 2.50 percentage points in January 2004 -- against the backdrop of a rising federal-funds rate and relatively low levels of inflation. 


 
                           AUCTION RESULTS 
 
  Here are the results of the Treasury auction of four-week bills. All bids 
are awarded at a single price at the market-clearing yield. Rates are 
determined by the difference between that price and the face value. 
 
Applications ....................................  $29,522,104,000 
Accepted bids ...................................   $8,000,124,000 
Accepted noncompetitively .......................      $97,104,000 
Accepted frgn noncomp ...........................               $0 
Auction price (Rate) ............................ 99.797389(2.605%) 
Coupon equivalent ...............................           2.647% 
Bids at market-clearing yld accepted ............           55.26% 
Cusip number ....................................        912795SR3 
 
  The bills are dated May 5, 2005, and mature June 2, 2005.   

---

Shayna Stoyko, Michael Mackenzie and Michael Derby contributed to this article. 

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mntdbt : National Government Debt/Bond Markets | gvtre : Treasury Department | m131 : Money Markets | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | gvexe : Executive Branch | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCTRE | USG | NND | TPX | CRD | MIM   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument J000000020050504e1540000v  



 HDBank of Hawaii raises lending rate in response to Fed     WC145 words   PD4 May 2005   ET01:24   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2005.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.  
   LPHONOLULU (AP) - Hawaii's three largest banks followed the Federal Reserve's move Tuesday to raise a key interest rate by nudging up their lending rates.  

Worried about climbing inflation, the Fed pushed up the federal funds rate by one-quarter of a percentage point, to 3 percent, and signaled that Americans' borrowing costs are likely to keep climbing in the months ahead.  
   TDBank of Hawaii, First Hawaiian Bank and American Savings Bank responded by each raising their prime lending rates a quarter point, from 5.75 percent to 6 percent. The increases go into effect on Wednesday, the three banks said.  

The rate hike was the eighth of that size since the Fed began to tighten credit last June, and it left the rate at the highest level since the fall of 2001.  
   RF7   COfsthwn : First Hawaiian Bank | wshmut : Washington Mutual Inc | banqnp : BNP Paribas SA   INi814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | i81501 : Credit Types/Services | i8150103 : Mortgages/Real Estate Credit | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REushi : Hawaii | namz : North America | usa : United States | usw : Western U.S.   IPCtagpf0wcat | selhihi- | catf   IPDAP State Wires: Hawaii | Financial/Business | HI Interest Rates Hawaii | D89S0GGO0   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020050503e15300gug  



 HDOops ... Fed drops key sentence on inflation from its statement     WC212 words   PD4 May 2005   ET01:53   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2005.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.  
   LPWASHINGTON (AP) - No government agency is more careful about the statements it releases than the Federal Reserve, where a single word can move financial markets. But it made a goof on Tuesday, dropping a key sentence on inflation.  

The Fed alerted reporters to the error one hour and 45 minutes after the initial one-page statement was released, saying the missing sentence "was dropped inadvertently."  
   TDFed officials asked news agencies to report the dropped sentence before Wall Street stock trading ended at 4 p.m. EDT (2000 GMT).  

The initial Fed statement said, "Pressures on inflation have picked up in recent months and pricing power is more evident."  

The dropped sentence, which should have followed immediately after that, put the concerns about inflation in a more positive light. It said: "Longer-term inflation expectations remain well contained."  

The Dow Jones industrial average was down 46 points five minutes before the close but surged into positive territory after the Fed error was reported. The Dow finished the day up 5.25 points at 10,256.95.  

The Fed has only been issuing statements following interest-rate meetings since February 1994 and this is the first error made in any of those statements.  
   RF7   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPCtagpf0wcat | sel----- | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | NA FIN US Fed Oops | D89S0TRO1   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020050503e15300gb2  



 HDText of Fed Announcement Raising Key Rate     BYBy The Associated Press     WC333 words   PD3 May 2005   ET22:48   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2005.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.  
   LPFollowing is the text of the Federal Reserve's announcement Tuesday that it was increasing a key interest rate to 3 percent:  

The Federal Open Market Committee decided today to raise its target for the federal funds rate by 25 basis points to 3 percent.  
   TDThe committee believes that, even after this action, the stance of monetary policy remains accommodative and, coupled with robust underlying growth in productivity, is providing ongoing support to economic activity. Recent data suggest that the solid pace of spending growth has slowed somewhat, partly in response to the earlier increases in energy prices. Labor market conditions, however, apparently continue to improve gradually. Pressures on inflation have picked up in recent months and pricing power is more evident. Longer-term inflation expectations remain well contained.  

The committee perceives that, with appropriate monetary policy action, the upside and downside risks to the attainment of both sustainable growth and price stability should be kept roughly equal. With underlying inflation expected to be contained, the committee believes that policy accommodation can be removed at a pace that is likely to be measured. Nonetheless, the committee will respond to changes in economic prospects as needed to fulfill its obligation to maintain price stability.  

Voting for the FOMC monetary policy action were: Alan Greenspan, chairman; Timothy F. Geithner, vice chairman; Susan S. Bies; Roger W. Ferguson, Jr.; Richard W. Fisher; Edward M. Gramlich; Donald L. Kohn; Michael H. Moskow; Mark W. Olson; Anthony M. Santomero; and Gary H. Stern.  

In a related action, the Board of Governors unanimously approved a 25-basis-point increase in the discount rate to 4 percent. The discount rate is charged when banks borrow directly from the Federal Reserve. In taking this action, the board approved the requests submitted by the boards of directors of the Federal Reserve Banks of Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, Minneapolis, Kansas City, Dallas, and San Francisco.  
   RF7   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagpf1apon | sel----- | catf | 1310   IPDFinancial/Business | Fed Text | D89RU7700   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020050503e15300ead  



 HDFed boosts key  interest rate  for eighth time     BYBy MARTIN CRUTSINGER     CRAP Economics Writer   WC721 words   PD3 May 2005   ET21:59   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2005.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.  
   LPWASHINGTON (AP) - The Federal Reserve, caught between a sudden economic slowdown and heightened worries about inflation, decided to nudge a key interest rate up by another quarter-point on Tuesday.  

The move, which had been widely expected by financial markets, pushed the federal funds rate up to 3 percent. It was the eighth increase in the interest that banks charge each other on overnight loans since the central bank began its credit tightening campaign last June.  
   TDThe Fed also retained a promise it has been making for the past year to move rates up "at a pace that is likely to be measured," a phrase that markets have interpreted as signaling continued small quarter-point rate increases.  

The decision by Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan and his colleagues came as the central bank is being buffeted by strong economic crosscurrents -- rising inflation pressures on one hand and a sudden slowing in economic growth on the other.  

Noting the recent slowdown, the Fed in its statement said, "Recent data suggest that the solid pace of spending growth has slowed somewhat, partly in response to the earlier increases in energy prices."  

The Fed also noted rising prices, saying "Pressures on inflation have picked up in recent months and pricing power is more evident."  

Wall Street, which had been in positive territory just before the Fed's announcement, rose further with the Dow Jones industrial average up nearly 40 points in the first half-hour of trading after the Fed action. Investors were relieved that the Fed retained its promise to keep moving rates at a measured pace rather than moving to more aggressive half-point hikes because of rising inflation worries.  

"David Jones, chief economist at DMJ Advisors, said Fed officials apparently believe that "the pickup in inflation pressures and the slowing in the economy are transitory."  

Jones predicted the central bank would boost rates at its next meeting on June 29-30 by another quarter point and keep raising rates at least through the summer.  

When the Fed started boosting rates 10 months ago, the funds rate stood at 1 percent, the lowest level in 46 years.  

The increase in the funds rate triggered a corresponding quarter-point increase in commercial banks' prime lending rate, the benchmark for millions of business and consumer loans. Banks announced they were boosting their prime rates to 6 percent, up from 5.75 percent.  

The steady-as-she-goes outcome of Tuesday's meeting was a far cry from the expectations about the Fed's next moves that were being made immediately after its last meeting on March 22.  

At that time, Wall Street began bracing for the Fed to ditch the promise to be measured and jack up rates by a half-point. That fear of more aggressive Fed credit-tightening was fanned by a change of wording in the March Fed statement to acknowledge more worries about inflation.  

Since then, however, various indicators showed the economy slowing sharply in March. The government reported last week that this sudden slowdown had dragged down economic growth to a rate of just 3.1 percent in the first three months of the year, the slowest pace in two years.  

That slowdown, however, eased fears for the time being about the Fed becoming more aggressive in its rate hikes. Analysts, however, are not looking for a pause in the gradual quarter-point increases because various inflation statistics are continuing to flash some warning signals.  

Consumer prices jumped 0.6 percent, reflecting the surge in energy costs, but even outside of volatile food and energy, the so-called core rate of inflation was up 0.4 percent in March, the biggest jump in 2 1/2 years.  

Many economists believe the Fed will keep raising the funds rate for the rest of the year with more quarter-point moves until it reaches a "neutral" point for the funds rate, the level where the rate is neither stimulating economic growth or depressing growth.  

The Fed has never said exactly where neutral is but many economists believe it could be around 4.25 percent, the level the funds rate would be in December if the Fed kept boosting rates by a quarter point at each meeting.  
   RF5   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPCtagpf0wcat | sel----- | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | NA FIN ECO US Fed Interest Rates | D89RTGHO0   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020050503e153004xu  



 HDUPDATE 4-INSTANT VIEW-Stocks-Fed ups rates for 8th straight time.      WC578 words   PD3 May 2005   ET20:41   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2005 Reuters Limited   
   LPNEW YORK, May 3 (Reuters) - The Federal Reserve on Tuesday raised the benchmark federal funds rate by a quarter point to 3 percent - matching market forecasts - in its eighth consecutive interest rate increase.   

Major U.S. stock indexes moved lower following the announcement but rebounded shortly thereafter.   
   TDFollowing are comments from equity market analysts and strategists on the Fed's decision:   

JIM SWANSON, CHIEF INVESTMENT STATEGIST, MFS INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT, BOSTON:   

"They would need a shocker in terms of economic numbers to go to 50 (basis points) but they're not going to abandon this removal of easy money, they're continuing to move upward and they're not all deterred by what Wall Street perceived by slower economic data last week. They're moving ahead, they're going to get us back to neutral, which is probably 3.50 percent or 3.75 percent. So we just continue to notch these rates up.   

"The world thinks he's ahead of inflation risk... We think here that the economy is sort of sneaky strong, and is stronger than the recent data suggests. I think its good news for stocks. Did you catch that about pricing power? For the first time in really seven or eight years, you're getting pricing power back in the system. That means these companies don't have to keep costing costs to get profits up."   

JEFFREY SAUT, RAYMOND JAMES FINANCIAL CHIEF INVESTMENT STRATEGIST:   

"To me its de ja vu all over again. They have left the word 'measured' and they left the word 'accomodative.' Looks like there will be more rate rachets. (The comments indicate) Inflation has picked up. The two employment numbers before the next June 29 meeting will be importnat. I don't think the market can sniff out yet if this is a soft patch or something more. We will have to to wait for more economic data in the next couple of weeks."   

AL GOLDMAN, CHIEF MARKET STRATEGIST AT A.G. EDWARDS:   

"It was a pretty benign statement, but it looks like the Fed is saying that inflationary pressures have picked up a bit. The market is selling off as it usually does with these numbers and I expect the market to bounce around a bit. It sounds like the 'measured' pace will continue. The rate hike was as expected and it shouldn't have a major impact on the market."   

ROBERT MITCHELL, CO-MANAGER OF NORTHERN GROWTH EQUITY FUND, PART OF NORTHERN TRUST INVESTMENTS IN CHICAGO:   

"The move from the Fed was in line with most expectations. Following the decision by the Fed to raise interest rates by an expected 25 basis points, and to leave the language pretty much the same, indicates that they still feel that conditions are strong enough in the economy to withstand higher interest rates.   

"Expectations of a faster pace of rate increases, perhaps a 50 point basis rise, to head off inflationary pressures proved premature."   

HUGH JOHNSON, CHIEF INVESTMENT OFFICER OF JOHNSON ILLINGTON ADVISORS, ALBANY, N.Y.:   

"My impression is there is no real surprise, that they have told us the risks we face are in balance.   

"They have acknowledged the economy is slowing somewhat and they have continued to say there is still some upward pressure on prices - and they'll continue to raise interest rates at a measured pace.   

"There is nothing in the statement that is a surprise."    
   INi81401 : Central Banking | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | ibnk : Banking/Credit | i814 : Banking   NSe1102 : Money Supply | e1202 : Interest Rates | m11 : Equity Markets | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | e1101 : Economic Growth | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America | usny : New York | use : Northeast U.S.   IPCN2K:BNK | N2K:CEN | N2K:D | N2K:E | N2K:FED | N2K:FIN | N2K:INT | N2K:MUNI | N2K:STX | N2K:U | N2K:US | N2K:XX   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument LBA0000020050503e153004pj  



 HDINSTANT VIEW-Stocks-Fed raises rates for 8th time in a row.      WC145 words   PD3 May 2005   ET20:26   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2005 Reuters Limited   
   LPNEW YORK, May 3 (Reuters) - The Federal Reserve on Tuesday raised the benchmark federal funds rate by a quarter point to 3 percent - matching market forecasts - in its eighth consecutive interest rate increase.   

Major U.S. stock indexes moved lower following the announcement.   
   TDFollowing are comments from equity market analysts and strategists on the Fed's decision:   

HUGH JOHNSON, CHIEF INVESTMENT OFFICER OF JOHNSON ILLINGTON ADVISORS, ALBANY, N.Y.:   

"My impression is there is no real surprise, that they have told us the risks we face are in balance.   

"They have acknowledged the economy is slowing somewhat and they have continued to say there is still some upward pressure on prices - and they'll continue to raise interest rates at a measured pace.   

"There is nothing in the statement that is a surprise."    
   INi81401 : Central Banking | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | ibnk : Banking/Credit | i814 : Banking   NSe1102 : Money Supply | e1202 : Interest Rates | e214 : Sub-national/Local Borrowing | m11 : Equity Markets | mmuni : Municipal Debt/Bond Markets | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e21 : Government Finance | e212 : Government Borrowing | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | e1101 : Economic Growth | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America | usny : New York | use : Northeast U.S.   IPCN2K:BNK | N2K:CEN | N2K:D | N2K:E | N2K:FED | N2K:FIN | N2K:INT | N2K:MUNI | N2K:STX | N2K:U | N2K:US | N2K:XX   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument LBA0000020050503e153004ph  



 CLMAhead of the Tape   HDAhead of the Tape   BYBy Justin Lahart    WC450 words   PD3 May 2005   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGC1   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 2005, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP[Today's Market Forecast]

A Pause That Refreshes?
   TDAnother day, another interest-rate increase.

At its meeting a year ago today, the Federal Reserve's policy-setting committee first signaled it was about to start raising short-term interest rates. Since then it has pushed up its overnight target rate by a quarter point each time it has met.

Today, it is poised to increase rates once again, taking the federal-funds rate to 3%, the highest level since September 2001.

These rate increases have become so rote-seeming that market speculation is focused on what might break the pattern.

About a month ago traders were talking about how, with the U.S. economy strong and inflation picking up, the Fed might raise the rate used by banks on overnight loans by half a point by the time the summer was up. Now that it has become clear that the economy began rowing against the tide in March, the talk is how the Fed might skip raising rates at one of its meetings to assure itself that nothing has gone seriously amiss.

This has made for a twitchy time in the market. Seeing the Fed raise rates as the economy cools calls to mind the times in the past when the bank continued raising rates for too long, and brought on recession. If the Fed gives any indication in its statement following the meeting that it is thinking of pausing, it could set off a round of hosannas from traders.

Such an outcome seems unlikely. Many economists continue to believe the economy is in something akin to last summer's soft patch, a temporary cooling through which the Fed continued raising rates. Meantime, inflation, while still low, has accelerated in recent months. Personal-consumption prices excluding food and energy, the Fed's favorite measure of prices, has lately been running at a more-than-2% annual pace. That is faster than the Fed would like.

The best traders may be able to hope for is the Fed giving some sort of acknowledgment that the economy is slowing, and an indication that if the economic data continue to disappoint, a pause will be in order.

One indicator popular among some investors clearly suggests it is time for the Fed to cool its heels. The yield curve -- the difference between short-term and long-term interest rates -- has been getting flatter by the day. That could be an indication the Fed is doing its job of reining in the economy too well.

---

Please send comments and questions to justin.lahart@wsj.com. 



License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | gpersf : Personal Finance | gvexe : Executive Branch | m11 : Equity Markets | m131 : Money Markets | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | glife : Living/Lifestyle | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCPIC | FED | USG | NND | TPX | AOT | TFR   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument J000000020050503e15300020  


 CLMMonday's Markets   HDDow Industrials Rise 59.19 Points Ahead of Fed Meeting   BYBy E.S. Browning    WC455 words   PD3 May 2005   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGC1   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 2005, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LPINVESTORS CHEWED their fingernails over oil prices and today's Federal Reserve meeting, but then settled down and sent stocks higher at session's end.

Despite a sharp rise in oil prices and a widespread expectation that Fed policy makers will raise their base interest rate another quarter percentage point to 3%, the Dow Jones Industrial Average finished ahead 59.19 points, or 0.58%, at 10251.70. It remains down 4.9% for 2005.
   TDOil prices fell to start the day, but oil had fallen so much in recent days that speculative buying developed in the afternoon, pushing crude-oil futures back above $50 a barrel -- up $1.20 to $50.92 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange.

April manufacturing numbers were light, but March construction data were strong.

Based on a forecast of slowing profit growth, the global stock strategist at J.P. Morgan Securities advised clients to cut stock holdings to 55% of portfolios, from 70%.

Investors now are waiting to see whether the Fed gives any hint today that it might change the pace of interest-rate increases in the future. They also are looking ahead to Friday's report on April hiring, which could offer hints on both economic growth and inflation. "People are undecided on what to do. They are waiting for the Fed meeting and for the unemployment data on Friday," said Tim Heekin, director of trading at San Francisco brokerage house Thomas Weisel Partners.

The Standard &Poor's 500-stock index rose 0.46%, or 5.31 points, to 1162.16, leaving it down 4.1% this year. The Nasdaq Composite Index advanced 0.36%, or 7 points, to 1928.65, down 11.3% for 2005.

Gold fell $5.50 to $429.50 an ounce, its biggest decline in more than a month, and the dollar rose.

Outside the U.S., stocks declined in dollar terms. The Dow Jones World Stock Index, excluding U.S. stocks, fell 0.07%, or 0.12 point, to 167.17.

In major U.S. market action:

Stocks advanced. On the Big Board, where 1.56 billion shares traded, 2,128 stocks rose and 1,143 fell.

Bonds gained. The 10-year Treasury note rose 2/32, or 62.5 cents for each $1,000 invested, pushing the yield down to 4.196%. The 30-year bond rose 1/32 to yield 4.515%.

The dollar strengthened. Late in New York, it traded at 105.01 yen, up from 104.85, while the euro fell against the dollar to $1.2860 from $1.2867. 

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   NSm11 : Equity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | e1202 : Interest Rates | gpersf : Personal Finance | gvtre : Treasury Department | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m131 : Money Markets | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | mntdbt : National Government Debt/Bond Markets | nsum : News Digest | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | glife : Living/Lifestyle | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | gvexe : Executive Branch | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | niwe : IWE Filter   REjap : Japan | usa : United States | asiaz : Asia | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America   IPCTRE | USG | STT | JPY | NND | TPX | USD | MIM | PMK | TFR | TPT   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument J000000020050503e1530001v  



 CLMCredit Markets   HDTraders Focus on Fed, Jobs Report --- Inflation, Slowing Growth Present Quandary on Rates; Treasury Rally Loses Steam   BYBy Shayna Stoyko Dow Jones Newswires    WC566 words   PD2 May 2005   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGC4   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 2005, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LPNEW YORK -- Treasurys investors will parse Federal Reserve rhetoric this week for insight into how slower growth and rising inflation will play out on interest-rate policy.

But a bigger focus for the market could be April economic data -- culminating with the release Friday of the monthly employment report -- as investors try to gauge whether recent softness in the economy is going to remain for a while.
   TD"People will be fixated on the Fed, because they always are. But the more important thing will be the current economic numbers -- the April data are going to be key," said Bill Strazzullo, chief trading strategist at State Street in Boston.

Investors widely expect the Fed to raise its interest-rate target by a quarter point at its policy-setting meeting tomorrow. That would take the federal-funds rate, charged among banks for overnight loans, to 3%, in the eighth consecutive quarter-point increase since June 2004.

What is less certain is how the central bank will word its policy statement and, specifically, whether it will refer to recent economic softness and continue to stress its commitment to a series of gradual rate increases.

Any shift in the Fed's characterization of the economic situation would likely be subtle, analysts and traders said. Rick Klingman, head of Treasurys trading at ABN Amro in New York, said he doesn't expect Fed policy makers to "send major signals if they change their wording."

He said the Fed can raise rates two to three more times -- which would lift the federal-funds rate to 3.25% or 3.5% -- before it will have to take a hard look at whether it has raised rates to a neutral level, that is, one that neither stimulates nor restricts growth. At that point, Fed policy will "become more data dependent," he said, adding that policy makers are "going to become less clear themselves" on how to proceed. "If inflation numbers remain sticky and payrolls are OK, then [the Fed] can take fed funds up to 4%. But if the numbers are soft and inflation is behaved, [the Fed] may pause at 3.5%," he said.

In late trading Friday, the benchmark 10-year note was down 13/32 point, or $4.06 per $1,000 face value, at 98 12/32. Its yield rose to 4.204% from 4.154% Thursday. The 30-year bond fell 12/32 to 113 to yield 4.517%, up from 4.495%.

Foreign Bonds

The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, a World Bank group member, sold a 760 million ringgit ($200 million) Islamic bond. The bond, Malaysia's largest from a supranational borrower, paves the way for other issuers from overseas. The IBRD is the third supranational to tap the market since April 2004, when Malaysia allowed certain foreign investors to sell ringgit-denominated debt.

The liberalization allows multilateral development banks that have Malaysia as a member, as well as foreign multinationals, to issue bonds with the permission of the Malaysian authorities.

The IBRD raised the debt at a yield of 3.58%, or 0.03 percentage point lower than the yield on five-year Malaysian government securities.

---

Karen Lane contributed to this article. 

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mntdbt : National Government Debt/Bond Markets | e1202 : Interest Rates | gvtre : Treasury Department | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m131 : Money Markets | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | gvexe : Executive Branch | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets   REmalay : Malaysia | usa : United States | asiaz : Asia | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | namz : North America | seasiaz : Southeast Asia   IPCTRE | USG | NND | TPX | CRD | MIM   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument J000000020050502e1520000o  
 Page 1 of 1      2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.


 

 Page 1      2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.

