 


 HDRPT-ANALYSIS-US Housing froth riskier than dot.com bust      BYBy Alister Bull      WC915 words   PD1 July 2005   ET23:15   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2005 Reuters Limited   
   LP(Repeating to add reference to Factbox)   

WASHINGTON, July 1 (Reuters) - Whether it's a national bubble or just pockets of regional froth, an end to the U.S. housing price surge could inflict economic harm that would make the 2000 technology stocks bust look tame in comparison.   
   TDEven if the market cools in only those parts of the country that Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan would concede are "frothy," the United States has a serious problem.   

If prices were merely to level off, it could subdue the property-linked activity that has stimulated spending and job growth -- crucial supports for the U.S. economy.   

Based on benchmarks from a recent International Monetary Fund study comparing equity and housing market bubbles, there are about 15 states that are vulnerable to a housing market correction. These represent about 35 percent of U.S. GDP.   

"A significant correction in consumption spending in these states is bound to have significant effects on national growth," said Thomas Helbling, an economist at the IMF in Washington.   

Merrill Lynch estimates the impact on growth could be as much as one percentage point of gross domestic product.   

Add the knock-on effects to the rest of the economy to any initial spending hit and the situation looks worse.   

The IMF study found that while equity market collapses are more frequent, housing busts do a lot more damage.   

"The output loss associated with the typical housing price bust (about 8 percent of GDP) was twice as large as that associated with a typical equity price bust," the study said.   

FED HOT RHETORIC   

The Federal Reserve understands these risks, which is why its top officials have recently talked of revamping lending guidelines and have warned about speculation and the perils of certain hybrid mortgages whose affordability requires ever-rising home prices.   

"They are certainly well aware of the fact that what is going on in the housing market could predispose toward problems down the road. And to the extent that they could avoid it, without upsetting the economy currently, they would certainly like to do that," said former Fed Governor Lyle Gramley.   

The situation calls for more gradual interest-rate rises, since stopping now would only fuel the housing boom, he said.   

When it raised rates on Thursday in the ninth straight increase since June 2004, the Fed gave no indication it was prepared to stop in the near future.   

A look at the U.S. economy's reliance on the housing sector in recent years is helpful in gauging the impact of a serious market upset.   

American households have enjoyed a $4 trillion rise in wealth, thanks to a 40 percent gain in house prices since early 2001, according to Merrill Lynch.   

Assuming they spend six cents of every extra dollar, this adds up to $50 billion in additional spending each year, contributing about half a percentage point to annual GDP since 2000.   

"If home prices just level off, this could slice a full percentage point from GDP growth in 2006," Merrill said.   

Not everyone agrees with the worst-case scenarios.   

Jonas Fisher, a senior economist and housing expert at the Chicago Fed, said the assumption that spending was being driven by consumer expectations of home price gains might be flawed.   

"Instead, consumers think in terms of long-term trends, and will view much of the price appreciation as temporary or unsustainable," he said.   

NEW JOBS   

Still, the numbers show housing has had an important impact on both investment and jobs.   

Construction-related spending has exerted a powerful force in the economy. A big reason behind the upward revision in first-quarter growth announced on Wednesday, to 3.8 percent, was the 11.5 percent jump in annualized housing investment.   

Paul Ashworth, North American economist for Capital Economics, says 933,000 of the jobs created in the current U.S. economic upswing owe their existence in one way or another to rampant real estate.   

"A full 37.8 percent of all new jobs created have come in construction, real estate, architecture, building supply, home furnishing retailers and building services, even though those sectors only account for 11.6 percent of total nonfarm payrolls," he said.   

All this could suffer if housing growth petered out.   

"You would get fewer houses being built, fewer real estate agents running around, fewer construction workers ... You don't have to be concerned that house prices fall to worry about the effect on the wider economy," said Ashworth.   

One of the reasons housing is so hot is the low level of U.S. borrowing costs, which have stayed attractive despite 225 basis points of rate tightening by the Fed since mid-2004. Many mortgages are priced off the 10-year U.S. government bond.   

Long bond yields are lower now than they were when the rate rises began, puzzling many at the Fed. And if long-term rates at last reversed this trend and started to climb, the state of the housing market raises the risk to the wider economy.   

"If other factors come into play that change the current yield curve structure, then the housing conditions add another dimension to the risk outlook," said the IMF's Helbling. (For more information, please see ECONOMY-HOUSING (FACTBOX) item headlined "FACTBOX - The 15 frothiest U.S. housing markets" or click on [ID:nN01400570] )   
   RFECONOMY-HOUSING (ANALYSIS)(REPEAT)|LANGEN|ABN|E|RBN|U|D|M|MNI   INi81401 : Central Banking | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | ibuildpr : Building Materials/Products | icre : Construction/Real Estate | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe1102 : Money Supply | e1122 : Mortgage Applications/Refinancing | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | gvexe : Executive Branch | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | imf : International Monetary Fund | mcpdbt : Corporate Debt/Bond Markets | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCMCE | FED | CEN | WASH | INT | DBT | MTG | AGN | REA | FIN | MUNI | CON | BLD   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument LBA0000020050701e17100217  



 HDANALYSIS-US Housing froth riskier than dot.com bust      BYBy Alister Bull      WC884 words   PD1 July 2005   ET19:30   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2005 Reuters Limited   
   LPWASHINGTON, July 1 (Reuters) - Whether it's a national bubble or just pockets of regional froth, an end to the U.S. housing price surge could inflict economic harm that would make the 2000 technology stocks bust look tame in comparison.   

Even if the market cools in only those parts of the country that Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan would concede are "frothy," the United States has a serious problem.   
   TDIf prices were merely to level off, it could subdue the property-linked activity that has stimulated spending and job growth -- crucial supports for the U.S. economy.   

Based on benchmarks from a recent International Monetary Fund study comparing equity and housing market bubbles, there are about 15 states that are vulnerable to a housing market correction. These represent about 35 percent of U.S. GDP.   

"A significant correction in consumption spending in these states is bound to have significant effects on national growth," said Thomas Helbling, an economist at the IMF in Washington.   

Merrill Lynch estimates the impact on growth could be as much as one percentage point of gross domestic product.   

Add the knock-on effects to the rest of the economy to any initial spending hit and the situation looks worse.   

The IMF study found that while equity market collapses are more frequent, housing busts do a lot more damage.   

"The output loss associated with the typical housing price bust (about 8 percent of GDP) was twice as large as that associated with a typical equity price bust," the study said.   

FED HOT RHETORIC   

The Federal Reserve understands these risks, which is why its top officials have recently talked of revamping lending guidelines and have warned about speculation and the perils of certain hybrid mortgages whose affordability requires ever-rising home prices.   

"They are certainly well aware of the fact that what is going on in the housing market could predispose toward problems down the road. And to the extent that they could avoid it, without upsetting the economy currently, they would certainly like to do that," said former Fed Governor Lyle Gramley.   

The situation calls for more gradual interest-rate rises, since stopping now would only fuel the housing boom, he said.   

When it raised rates on Thursday in the ninth straight increase since June 2004, the Fed gave no indication it was prepared to stop in the near future.   

A look at the U.S. economy's reliance on the housing sector in recent years is helpful in gauging the impact of a serious market upset.   

American households have enjoyed a $4 trillion rise in wealth, thanks to a 40 percent gain in house prices since early 2001, according to Merrill Lynch.   

Assuming they spend six cents of every extra dollar, this adds up to $50 billion in additional spending each year, contributing about half a percentage point to annual GDP since 2000.   

"If home prices just level off, this could slice a full percentage point from GDP growth in 2006," Merrill said.   

Not everyone agrees with the worst-case scenarios.   

Jonas Fisher, a senior economist and housing expert at the Chicago Fed, said the assumption that spending was being driven by consumer expectations of home price gains might be flawed.   

"Instead, consumers think in terms of long-term trends, and will view much of the price appreciation as temporary or unsustainable," he said.   

NEW JOBS   

Still, the numbers show housing has had an important impact on both investment and jobs.   

Construction-related spending has exerted a powerful force in the economy. A big reason behind the upward revision in first-quarter growth announced on Wednesday, to 3.8 percent, was the 11.5 percent jump in annualized housing investment.   

Paul Ashworth, North American economist for Capital Economics, says 933,000 of the jobs created in the current U.S. economic upswing owe their existence in one way or another to rampant real estate.   

"A full 37.8 percent of all new jobs created have come in construction, real estate, architecture, building supply, home furnishing retailers and building services, even though those sectors only account for 11.6 percent of total nonfarm payrolls," he said.   

All this could suffer if housing growth petered out.   

"You would get fewer houses being built, fewer real estate agents running around, fewer construction workers ... You don't have to be concerned that house prices fall to worry about the effect on the wider economy," said Ashworth.   

One of the reasons housing is so hot is the low level of U.S. borrowing costs, which have stayed attractive despite 225 basis points of rate tightening by the Fed since mid-2004. Many mortgages are priced off the 10-year U.S. government bond.   

Long bond yields are lower now than they were when the rate rises began, puzzling many at the Fed. And if long-term rates at last reversed this trend and started to climb, the state of the housing market raises the risk to the wider economy.   

"If other factors come into play that change the current yield curve structure, then the housing conditions add another dimension to the risk outlook," said the IMF's Helbling.   
   RFECONOMY-HOUSING (ANALYSIS)|LANGEN|ABN|E|RBN|U|D|M|MNI   INi81401 : Central Banking | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | ibuildpr : Building Materials/Products | icre : Construction/Real Estate | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe1102 : Money Supply | e1122 : Mortgage Applications/Refinancing | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | gvexe : Executive Branch | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | imf : International Monetary Fund | mcpdbt : Corporate Debt/Bond Markets | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCMCE | FED | CEN | WASH | INT | DBT | MTG | AGN | REA | FIN | MUNI | CON | BLD   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument LBA0000020050701e171001qk  



 HDRPT-ANALYSIS-House bubble could be a self-fulfilling prophecy      BYBy Lynn Adler      WC837 words   PD1 July 2005   ET18:49   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2005 Reuters Limited   
   LP(Repeats to remove unrelated story attached to bottom of text)   

NEW YORK, July 1 (Reuters) - A barrage of news stories and warnings from U.S. officials about possible housing bubbles may in fact become self-fulfilling prophecies, some industry experts and psychologists contend.   
   TDU.S. housing prices have surged more than 50 percent in the past five years and many are wondering when it will stop.   

What experts fear is that excessive focus on the issue could generate enough fear among homebuyers to lead to the first-ever nationwide housing drop.   

Never have average home prices fallen nationally, despite local recessions or sky-high mortgage rates, economists say, and such widespread bubble trouble is seen unlikely.   

The climate is right for escalating worries about a U.S. home price crash, however.   

Stubbornly low mortgage rates, income growth and demand that exceeds supply are sound reasons for a housing boom. But waves of speculative buying and riskier loans could cause a world of pain when rates jump.   

A self-fulfilling prophecy of a national bubble popping is "a risk," says Doug Duncan, chief economist at the Mortgage Bankers Association in Washington, D.C. "The argument is psychological, and it says that if you say something often enough it can come true."   

Federal Reserve Chief Alan Greenspan doubts there is a national bubble but warns repeatedly of "froth" in local housing markets and imminent regional downturns.   

Economists say Fed officials are warning bankers about risk-taking and loose lending practices as well as urging consumer caution. Barely a day goes by without blaring headlines about housing bubbles in newspapers and magazines.   

"Greenspan and others say there are regional house price bubbles that could burst. That statement may be accurate," says Stephanie Madon, assistant professor in psychology at Iowa State University.   

"However, people living in other regions, like Iowa, may hear that statement and inappropriately apply it to their area -- believing that housing prices are inflated where they live too, even though that may not be be true," she added.   

If that were to occur, a self-fulfilling prophecy would be possible, she says, but it depends on what people do with their beliefs.   

Buyers could accept that homes are expensive and pay the rising prices, which could spur house inflation.   

On the other hand, Madon says, buyers might fight the prices and bid them lower, saying "I know there's a bubble, I wasn't born yesterday."   

LOOK IN REAR VIEW MIRROR?   

The stock bubble blew up on over-confidence in the technology sector, analysts say. Housing, in contrast, is seen driven mainly by thin property supply and real demand amid low interest rates.   

"Of course, emotions are heightened when there appears to be an issue of urgency to buy while there is supply if one believes that there is only a small window of opportunity," says Kathleen Gurney, Ph.D. and CEO of Financial Psychology Corporation in Sarasota, Florida, which studies the financial behavior of consumers and professional money managers.   

"The hard part for those who are only looking for monetary gain or excitement will come when they must pay the piper, their mortgage, or sell the property at a less than desired price," she adds. "If there are enough investors in that category, there will be a big burst in the 'bubble.'"   

Past performance might not be able to be used as a predictor of the future, as brokerage house fine print says. But local real estate problems are mainly triggered by job losses that shrink housing demand and the ripple effects in the past have been regional but never national.   

"There is no evidence of a national effect," says Duncan.   

The media frenzy "can cause a slowdown but not in and of itself cause a bubble" to burst nationally, says Chuck Dannis, president of Crosson Dannis Inc., a real estate appraisal and consulting firm, and an adjunct professor at Southern Methodist University's Edwin L. Cox School of Business in Dallas, Texas.   

It would take a sudden interest rate spike that could pump up adjustable-rate mortgage payments by about 30 percent to spur a national downturn, he says.   

Even during the oil market collapse of the late 1980s, which forced massive job losses in his region, the resulting home price drop did not cause national contagion, says Dannis.   

In Boston, one of the oft-cited frothy areas, Chris Veritas, home financing specialist of Chicago-based mortgage broker Solutions Funding Inc., said all the bubble talk could scare buyers into a wait-and-see mode.   

"I see people maybe putting more thought into buying and less speculation," says the Boston-based Veritas. "There's no bursting bubble. You may see a relaxation in the growth rate of home prices in certain markets. You can't look at real estate nationally, you have to look at it locally."   
   RFECONOMY-HOUSING-BUBBLE (ANALYSIS) (REPEAT)|LANGEN|ABN|E|RBN|U|D|M|MNI   INibcs : Business/Consumer Services | ibuildpr : Building Materials/Products | icre : Construction/Real Estate   NSe1122 : Mortgage Applications/Refinancing | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | gvexe : Executive Branch | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | mcpdbt : Corporate Debt/Bond Markets | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCWASH | INT | MCE | DBT | MTG | AGN | REA | FIN | MUNI | CON | BLD | LOA   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument LBA0000020050701e171001hs  



 HDRPT-POLL-Fed seen raising rates again in August, beyond      BYBy Ros Krasny      WC849 words   PD1 July 2005   ET06:40   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2005 Reuters Limited   
   LPCHICAGO, June 30 (Reuters) - The vast majority of Wall Street's top economists expect the Federal Reserve to raise interest rates again at their next policy meeting in August, a Reuters survey found on Thursday.   

The Reuters poll of 19 top bond dealers was taken after the Fed hiked its benchmark fed funds rate a quarter-percentage point to 3.25 percent, the ninth hike in the current tightening cycle.   
   TDEconomists said the Fed's post-meeting statement was unambiguous in its call for more tightening.   

The forward-looking parts of statement -- the assessment that policy remains accommodative and that accommodation can be "removed at a pace that is likely to be measured" -- were not changed from recent versions.   

"My take on the statement is that the Fed is no closer to stopping than they were a month ago," said Ethan Harris, chief U.S. economist at Lehman Brothers.   

Some 21 of the 22 dealers polled expect the Fed to raise its fed funds rate another quarter-percentage point to 3.5 percent at the end of a meeting on Aug. 9, with one firm saying a pause was possible in August depending on upcoming data.   

A majority of 14 also said they think the Fed will hike another quarter-point at its September meeting as well, while five saw no move and others took a wait-and-see attitude.   

"The Fed will skip tightening at one of the four remaining meetings in 2005. To me it doesn't really matter which meeting they will skip," said Richard Berner, chief U.S. economist at Morgan Stanley, whose year-end fed funds forecast is 4.0 percent.   

The futures market currently prices a rate hike in August, and chances of a September increase rose to about 75 percent after the FOMC meeting from about 56 percent.   

The primary dealers have a median forecast for the year-end fed funds rate of 4.0 percent. In short-term rate futures, the implied year-end rate is now about 3.8 percent, up from recent lows near 3.67 percent.   

The Fed's statement tweaked some language about the U.S. economic expansion, which was said to remain firm, and inflation pressures, termed "elevated."   

"There is nothing in this statement to cause us to change our views. The Fed is reasonably upbeat on growth and concerned about price pressures," said Conrad de Quadros, economist at Bear Stearns.   

The central bank is moving into a second year of tightening, pulling its benchmark lending rate up from a decades-low 1.0 percent to an as-yet unknown "neutral" level that neither promotes nor prevents growth.   

"The idea that they were in the eighth inning of a nine inning game has clearly been contradicted. It looks like it's going to be an extra-inning game," Harris said.   

Economists said the June payrolls report, due for release on July 8, would be the next big factor in shaping Fed rate policy.   

"The report on jobs is a certainly going to be better than last month," said Eric Green, chief economist at Countrywide Financial Group.   

Green does not currently expect a Fed rate increase in September but said a strong jobs report would tilt the odds in that direction.   

Beyond the jobs report, Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan will deliver his semiannual testimony on the U.S. economy before the House of Representatives Financial Services Committee on July 20.   

The following is a summary of the interest rate forecasts of the 22 primary dealers that trade directly with the Fed in open market operations (all actions in bps):   


                Fed         Fed         Fed Funds
                Action      Action      Rate at COMPANY
        Aug 9       Sept 20     Year-End (pct)
--------------------------------------------------------- ABN
AMRO Inc       Raise 25    No Move     3.50 Banc of America
Raise 25    No Move     3.75 Barclays Capital   Raise 25
Raise 25    4.00 Bear Stearns       Raise 25    Raise 25
4.25 BNP Paribas        Raise 25    Raise 25    4.25
Citigroup          Raise 25    Raise 25    3.75 CIBC World Mrkts
  Raise 25    No Move     3.50 Countrywide Fin    Raise 25    No
Move     3.75 Credit Suisse      *           Raise 25    4.00
Daiwa Securities   Raise 25    -           3.75 Deutsche Bank
  Raise 25    Raise 25    4.00 Dresdner           Raise 25
Raise 25    3.75 Goldman, Sachs     Raise 25    Raise 25    -
HSBC Securities    Raise 25    Raise 25    3.75 J.P. Morgan
    Raise 25    Raise 25    4.25 Lehman Brothers    Raise 25
Raise 25    - Merrill Lynch      Raise 25    No Move**   3.50
Mizuho Securities  Raise 25    Raise 25    4.00 Morgan Stanley
 Raise 25    -           4.00 Nomura Securities  Raise 25
***         3.50 RBS Greenwich      Raise 25    Raise 25
4.25 UBS Securities     Raise 25    Raise 25    4.00 *Credit
   

Suisse: Possibility of no move on rates, depending on economic data **Merrill Lynch: Greenspan July testimony and June 30 minutes could affect Sept. 20 forecast. **Nomura: Forecasts likely to be affected by Aug. 9 statement (Additional reporting by the U.S. Treasury Desk)   
   RFECONOMY-FED-POLL|LANGEN|Table|FN   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument LBA0000020050701e1710007x  



 HDRPT-U.S. stocks fall as Fed hints at more rate hikes      BYBy Anupama Chandrasekaran      WC1,025 words   PD1 July 2005   ET06:21   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2005 Reuters Limited   
   LPNEW YORK, June 30 (Reuters) - U.S. stocks fell on Thursday after the Federal Reserve raised key interest rates a quarter point for a ninth straight time and signaled that more rate increases are in store.   

The U.S. central bank's policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee voted unanimously to raise the federal funds rate, charged on overnight loans between banks, to 3.25 percent -- its highest level since mid-September 2001 -- from 3 percent.   
   TDWhile a ninth rate increase was expected, financial markets were hoping the Fed would indicate that the campaign of rate increases was coming to an end in a year when companies are expecting a slowdown in profit growth. Instead, the FOMC said it believed it could continue to raise rates at a "measured" pace, a sign that more quarter-percentage-point rate increases are ahead.   

The blue-chip Dow Jones industrial average <.DJI> dropped 99.51 points, or 0.96 percent, to end at 10,274.97. The broad Standard & Poor's 500 Index <.SPX> slipped 8.52 points, or 0.71 percent, to finish at 1,191.33. The technology-laced Nasdaq Composite Index <.IXIC> lost 11.93 points, or 0.58 percent, to close at 2,056.96.   

"The market was looking for any sign that this process is winding down and this statement doesn't give any sense the Fed is done," said Bill Strazzullo, chief market strategist of State Street Global Markets.   

"It's a slight negative for equity markets because there's nothing that gives a clue we're close to the end," Strazzullo added.   

Higher interest rates are typically bad for stocks since they raise the cost of borrowing money for consumers and corporations.   

Despite some recent signs of economic softness resulting in part from oil prices near record highs, the Fed's desire to curb inflation looked like it would keep official U.S. interest rates on an upward path for now. The FOMC's next meeting is on Aug. 9.   

Shares of industrial companies, which are the benchmarks of the U.S. economy, slid after the Fed's rate increase. Heavy-equipment maker Caterpillar Inc. fell 1.4 percent, or $1.33, to $95.31 and chemical maker DuPont dropped 3.6 percent, or $1.62, to $43.01.   

U.S. Treasury bond prices climbed on Thursday as investors shrugged off the Fed's latest interest-rate increase and appeared to bet the economy's future was less rosy than policy-makers suggested. The price of the benchmark 10-year U.S. Treasury note <US10YT=RR> rose 18/32 to 101-22/32, while its yield fell to 3.92 percent from 3.99 percent on Wednesday.   

For the second quarter, the Dow ended down 2.2 percent, the S&P 500 rose 0.9 percent and Nasdaq climbed 2.9 percent.   

In the month of June alone, the Dow slipped 1.8 percent, the S&P 500 inched down 0.01 percent and the Nasdaq fell 0.5 percent.   

For the year so far, the Dow is down 4.7 percent, the S&P 500 is off 1.7 percent and the Nasdaq is down 5.5 percent.   

BANK OF AMERICA, 3M WEIGH   

On the corporate front, Bank of America Corp. said it agreed to buy MBNA Corp. , the biggest independent credit card lender, for $35 billion, making the No. 2 U.S. banking company one of the world's biggest card issuers. [ID:nN30530196]   

Bank of America lost 2.8 percent, or $1.30, to $45.61, while MBNA jumped 24.3 percent, or $5.11, to $26.16.   

Shares of Dow component Boeing Co. shot up 7 percent, or $4.33, to $66 after the aircraft maker named 3M Co. Chief Executive James McNerney as chairman and CEO, favoring him over candidates inside Boeing's ranks.   

In other acquisition news, Countrywide Financial Corp. , the largest U.S. mortgage lender, said it will acquire almost all the assets of KB Home's mortgage business. Countrywide's stock rose 0.5 percent, or 20 cents, to $38.61, while KB Home's shares gained 1.5 percent, or $1.14, to $76.23.   

Shares of Dow component 3M, where McNerney is widely credited with overseeing a turnaround after he joined the diversified manufacturer in 2001, declined nearly 5 percent, or $3.74, to $72.30.   

After the closing bell, shares of Pixar Animation Studios sank almost 10 percent to $45.14 on the Inet electronic brokerage network from a Nasdaq close at $50.05. The stock slid after the company said it was cutting its fiscal second-quarter earnings target to account for the possibility of higher-than-expected returns of "The Incredibles" DVDs.   

LOWER OIL OF LITTLE HELP   

Meanwhile, U.S. crude futures fell more than $1 to below $56 a barrel as funds sold when heating oil futures pared gains. NYMEX August crude futures <CLQ5> settled at $56.50, down 76 cents, after dropping as low as $55.90.   

While lower oil prices are usually good for stock markets, they weigh on shares of oil companies whose profits depend on the price of oil. Dow component Exxon Mobil Corp. , the world's largest publicly traded oil company, skidded 1.7 percent, or 97 cents, to $57.47, while rival oil producer and refiner ConocoPhillips slipped 0.5 percent, or 28 cents, to $57.49.   

Thursday is the last day of the second quarter, a time when trading can be volatile as fund managers square up their positions.   

Decliners outpaced advancers by a ratio of about 9 to 8 on the New York Stock Exchange, and on Nasdaq, by about 8 to 7.   

About 1.63 billion shares changed hands on the NYSE, above the 1.46 billion daily average for last year, while on Nasdaq, about 1.77 billion shares were traded -- below the 1.81 billion daily average last year. (Additional reporting by Jennifer Coogan)   
   RFMARKETS-STOCKS (UPDATE 13, REPEAT)|LANGEN|DA|FN|NW|SW   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | m11 : Equity Markets | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument LBA0000020050701e1710007a  



 SEThe Economy   HDFed Lifts Rates for 9th Time in Year --- Comments Suggest No Sign Of Pause in Measured Steps Despite Bond Market Worry   BYBy Greg Ip    WC730 words   PD1 July 2005   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGA2   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 2005, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LPThe Federal Reserve raised interest rates for the ninth time in a year, signaling confidence in the economy and concern about inflation -- even as bond investors worry that a downturn is in the offing.

The Fed, as widely expected, raised its target for the federal-funds rate, charged on overnight loans between banks, to 3.25% from 3%. Yesterday's increase came exactly one year after the Fed began to lift rates from an extraordinary low level. But in that time, long-term interest rates, which are determined by market forces and are the benchmark for mortgages and corporate loans, have actually declined.
   TDThat decline has fueled a debate over whether the Fed is going too far or hasn't gone far enough. Some say the Fed should pause in its rate increases because the decline, together with a downdraft in stock and commodity prices, foreshadows slower economic growth. Others say short-term rates should keep rising because low long-term rates have given an extra boost to the economy -- in particular housing.

For now, the Fed is in the latter camp. In the statement accompanying its decision, the Fed said, "Although energy prices have risen further, the expansion remains firm." That's a more upbeat assessment than the statement after its May 3 meeting, which observed that growth had "slowed somewhat."

Yesterday's statement said "pressures on inflation remain elevated," though it dropped its May 3 assessment that "pricing power is more evident." The Fed said interest rates are "accommodative," i.e. low enough to stimulate economic activity, and will likely rise further at a "measured" pace. "Measured" has come to mean a quarter percentage point per meeting.

The Fed funds rate has risen from 1% to 3.25% in the last year, but at the same time, the 30-year fixed rate mortgage has fallen to 5.6% from 6.3% while the one-year adjustable rate mortgage has edged up only to 4.2% from 4.1%. Low mortgage rates have lifted housing construction, sales and prices to levels many Fed officials worry are unsustainable. Housing was the subject of a special discussion at the Fed's two-day meeting this week, according to several private economists close to the Fed.

As they did with stocks in the 1990s, Fed officials disavow any responsibility for reining in a potential real-estate bubble. But they do believe housing activity and prices are fueling economic growth, adding to inflation pressures, all of which are reasons to keep tightening. Fed officials have also warned the banks they regulate against lax mortgage lending.

All 11 voting members of the 18-member policy-making Federal Open Market Committee agreed to yesterday's rate increase. (One voting seat is vacant.) The Fed also raised its lesser-used discount rate, charged on Fed advances to commercial banks, to 4.25% from 4%. Commercial banks raised their prime rate to 6.25% from 6%.

Laurence Meyer, a former Fed governor and now an analyst at Macroeconomic Advisers LLC, a forecasting firm, predicted the Fed will raise the funds rate one or two more times, to 3.5% or 3.75%, then pause to "take stock." If inflation creeps higher, even dovish Fed officials will support further increases, he said.

Paul McCulley, a fund manager and economist at Pacific Investment Management Co., a big bond fund manager, said yesterday's rate increase ought to be the Fed's last. He said declines in manufacturing activity surveys and global freight rates are "screaming, unambiguously" that the global economy is decelerating.

But Jan Loeys, global markets strategist at J.P. Morgan in London, says long term rates have been depressed because corporations around the world are investing and borrowing less than normal, and the extra capital has poured into the U.S., where investment is relatively firm. This means the U.S. is "stronger than it otherwise would be," and the Fed should raise its short-term interest rate target to 4.5% by early next year.

---

Journal Link: WSJ.com subscribers can see how mortgage rates have moved in the past year, plus search current rates on consumer loans, at WSJ.com/PersonalJournal. 



License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | ecat : Economic News | gvexe : Executive Branch | m131 : Money Markets | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCPIC | FED | USG | NND | TPX | ECN | LMJ | TPT   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument J000000020050701e17100041  


 HDStock Market Quarterly Review: Bond Market Proves Resilient Amid Volatility --- Fed Rate Increases, Downgrade Of GM, Ford Posed Challenges; More Turbulence Is Seen Ahead   BYBy Mark Whitehouse    WC1,214 words   PD1 July 2005   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGC11   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 2005, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LPBOND PRICES HELD UP surprisingly well in the second quarter after General Motors Corp. and Ford Motor Co., two of the world's biggest issuers of corporate debt, came crashing down. But bond-market professionals expect more turbulence in the quarter to come.

For bond investors, that means that finding good deals will be tough, and that the safe, if meager, returns offered by extreme short-term investments -- typically referred to as cash -- are looking all the more attractive.
   TD"We're in the midst of this long, painful transition, having to get used to lower returns," says James Sarni, senior portfolio manager at Payden &Rygel, a Los Angeles asset-management firm. "Everybody's just looking for that silver bullet out there, but it doesn't exist."

Various events in the second quarter conspired to weigh on bond prices. The Federal Reserve increased its target short-term interest rate twice, to 3.25% from 2.75%, and Standard &Poor's Corp. downgraded GM and Ford simultaneously, dropping about $85 billion of their traded debt into the $600 billion market for the low-rated high-yield bonds known as junk.

The higher cost of money and concern over the creditworthiness of corporate America should make investors less willing to lend. That, in turn, would increase yields on long-term bonds and widen credit spreads -- the amount of interest that companies pay over and above what the government pays on Treasury securities of comparable maturities.

The Treasury market, meanwhile, shrugged off the Fed's tightening of short-term rates. The price of the 10-year Treasury note went up, pushing down its yield, which moves inversely, to as low as 3.89% in May, compared with 4.496% on March 31. The 10-year yield ended the quarter at 3.922%.

As a result, the difference between short-term and long-term rates, known as the yield curve, shrank significantly. Some see this as the result of foreign investors, including Asian central banks, piling into U.S. bonds. Others see the flattening yield curve as a sign that the market expects the Federal Reserve's interest-rate increases to keep both inflation and economic growth in check -- or even provoke a recession.

"History shows that the Fed's never tightened without causing an accident," says Mark Kiesel, a portfolio manager at Pimco, an asset-management firm in Newport Beach, Calif.

GM and Ford's troubles did take a toll on corporate bonds, particularly on credit derivatives, securities whose value is linked to companies' financial health. For much of the quarter, investors dumped GM and Ford bonds, causing the prices to fall sharply and certain so-called correlation trades -- which depend on all corporate-bond prices moving in parallel -- to go badly wrong.

As hedge funds and investment-bank traders sought to unwind the trades, they created a tempest in the market for credit-default swaps, derivatives that provide insurance against defaults on corporate bonds. At one point, the annual cost of buying default protection on $10 million in investment-grade corporate bonds jumped to almost $78,000 from about $51,000 at the beginning of the quarter. The market jitters also pushed high-yield spreads above Treasurys to nearly 4.50 percentage points in May, from about 3.50 percentage points at the beginning of the quarter.

By the end of June, however, the markets had largely snapped back. At June 29, the average price of default protection was back down to $60,350, while the average spread on junk-rated debt was less than four percentage points. "If you take out the autos from the whole mix, credit spreads really aren't any wider," says Joe DiCenso, fixed-income strategist at Lehman Brothers in New York.

The market's resilience has benefited bondholders, but not investors looking for bargains in the world of fixed income. High bond prices mean low yields. Perhaps more importantly, the likely future of Federal Reserve policy and corporate finance doesn't bode well for bond prices.

"You have to kind of win by not losing," says Tom Parker, senior portfolio manager at Barclays Global Investors in San Francisco. "You've got much more downside risk than you have upside potential in anything you're going to buy."

One big question is what the Fed will do with short-term interest rates. Since June of last year, the Fed's open market committee has predictably increased its target federal-funds rate -- the overnight interest rate at which banks lend to each other -- by 0.25 percentage point every six weeks. The market fully expects the Fed to do the same at its next meeting in August, but beyond that, opinions differ sharply: Some say the Fed will keep raising rates, while others expect it to stop at 3.50%. Higher Fed rates put pressure on bond prices to fall.

As investors parse the statements of Fed officials, prices of Treasury bonds are likely to swing along with the market's expectations for Fed policy. "You've got more division of opinion than you've had in awhile," says Keith Andersen, chief investment officer at BlackRock Inc., a New York investment-management firm. "That's where your volatility is likely to come from."

In the corporate world, executives will likely be focused on making their shareholders happy -- at the expense of bondholders. In the past few years, companies' profits have exceeded their investments, leaving a lot of cash on their balance sheets. That has been good for bondholders, because it means the companies have enough money to guarantee debt payments well into the future.

More recently, though, companies have been returning that cash to shareholders in the form of bigger dividends and share buybacks, which increase the value of remaining shares. According to data provider Thomson Financial, companies announced share buybacks totaling $130.1 billion in the first half of 2005, compared with $73.6 billion in the same period last year. Meanwhile, they keep taking on more debt: June set a new record for global investment-grade corporate-debt issuance, according to Thomson.

What is more, the flattening yield curve is likely to have its own effect on corporate profits. For example, financial companies, which tend to borrow at short-term rates and lend at long-term rates, will see their profits fall. As short-term rates rise, consumers, who hold anywhere from $2 trillion to $4 trillion in floating-rate debt, will face higher payments on their mortgages and credit cards. That leaves them less money to spend on other stuff, cutting into the operating profits from which companies make their debt payments.

The Fed's rate increases do, however, have at least one advantage for investors. They improve the return on extreme short-term instruments like cash, relieving some of the pain involved in waiting for a better place to put one's money.

"Cash is increasing in value -- one of the few assets doing so, other than real estate," says Greg Peters, chief fixed-income strategist at Morgan Stanley in New York. 



License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   COfrdmo : Ford Motor Company   INi35101 : Passenger Cars | i351 : Motor Vehicles | iaut : Automobiles   NSm12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mntdbt : National Government Debt/Bond Markets | c172 : Corporate Debt Instruments | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e1202 : Interest Rates | m131 : Money Markets | m15 : Derivative Securities | c17 : Funding/Capital | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter   REusa : United States | usmi : Michigan | namz : North America | usc : Midwest U.S.   IPCCMR | DJCB | EWR | PIC | CYC | NND | LMJ | SPE   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument J000000020050701e1710003t  


 HDStock Market Quarterly Review: Investors, Left Dry, Are In Search of an Oasis --- Concerns About High Oil Prices And Rising Rates Stifle Rallies; DJIA Ends Quarter on Down Note   BYBy E.S. Browning    WC1,402 words   PD1 July 2005   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGC1   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 2005, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LPAFTER HAVING THE WIND at their backs late last year as stock prices soared, investors now must feel as if the wind is gone and they are carrying their boats across a desert.

Continued worries over oil prices, slowing economic growth and the Federal Reserve's plans for raising interest rates have combined to hold stocks back for most of this year. In the quarter just ended, the Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 228.79 points, or 2.18%, to 10274.97, including a decline of 99.51 points, or 0.96%, yesterday. Including the first quarter's decline, the industrial average is down 4.7% for 2005. It is back where it was at the end of 2003, a level it first crossed in early 1999, six years ago. The broad Standard &Poor's 500-stock index was up slightly for the quarter, rising 0.91%, or 10.74 points, but it remains down 1.7% for the year.
   TDThe quarter ended on a low note, as the Fed finished its two-day interest-rate meeting with a statement that discouraged investors. As expected, it raised its target for overnight bank lending to 3.25%. But some investors had been hoping for a signal that the Fed is getting near the end of its yearlong program of interest-rate increases, and the Fed's postmeeting statement included no such hint. If anything, the Fed's comment about inflation pressures remaining "elevated" left some investors fearing that rate increases may continue longer than they expected.

The widespread hope remains that stocks will imitate last year's performance, staging a strong advance in late summer or in autumn. In 2004, it was uncertainty about oil prices, terrorism and the presidential election that held stocks back for most of the year. The arrival of the election helped set off a strong rally into year's end.

Since then, stocks have been caught in the doldrums, with investors now blaming the Fed, oil and slower economic growth. Worries about war and terrorism remain, but now lurk just beneath the surface.

What many investors are counting on to spark a rally this time is an end to, or at least a pause in, the Fed's rate-increase campaign -- perhaps after one more interest-rate increase at the next meeting, in August. The Fed's latest statement raised fresh concern about when any pause might come. Many money managers still hope that the Fed will play the same role that the presidential election did last year. "Last year, we had a bottom in late summer and a strong rally into the end of the year. We think this year will look a lot like that," says John Kattar, chief investment officer at Eastern Investment Advisors, the investment-management arm of Eastern Bank in Boston.

One uncertainty is how strong the economy is, and whether high oil prices and rising short-term interest rates have become an impediment to growth. Some investment pros, including influential bond-fund manager Bill Gross of Pacific Investment Management in Newport Beach, Calif., are forecasting that the Fed will start cutting rates around year end.

That would be seen as good news for stocks, as long as it didn't appear to be a sign that the economy was running out of steam. Some skeptical analysts have been reminding investors lately that the Fed has a tendency to keep raising rates until some kind of crisis erupts, such as the Russian debt default of 1998 or the tech wreck of 2000, both of which helped spark turmoil in the stock market. So another subject of persistent debate is whether Fed rate increases could lead to another market blowup this year, involving, say, the housing market or hedge funds, the loosely regulated investment pools that cater to wealthy individuals and big investment institutions and, lately, to individual investors as well.

As money managers debate all these variables and try to devise strategies for dealing with them, they also are contemplating a longer-running trend. After dazzling investors small and large in the late 1990s, stocks no longer are considered the most exciting game in town. Following the 25% gain in 2003, the Dow industrials rose only 3.1% last year. People looking for investment excitement have begun turning their attention elsewhere -- to oil futures, to foreign currencies and to the red-hot housing market.

"People aren't talking about the bond market or the stock market or even hedge funds. It is all real estate, real estate, real estate," says Robert Mitchell, senior portfolio manager at Northern Trust Global Investments, the money-management arm of Northern Trust in Chicago.

So, beneath the market's ups and downs, the euphoria of the 1990s has been replaced with a dose of caution.

"Individuals are generally wary. It is hard to find a bull amongst them," says Gordon Fowler, chief investment officer at Philadelphia money-management firm Glenmede Trust, who cites conversations with his clients. Also, he says, "There is still fear in the corporate boardroom." Instead of investing available cash and hiring new workers, he says, many companies are looking for ways to hold down costs. Some still are saddled with excess production capacity left over from the last boom.

In this not-so-brave new world, expectations for stock gains have fallen. Many money managers say they expect total stock returns, including dividends, to fall below 10% for the S&P 500 this year, perhaps as low as 5%, depending on what happens to oil prices. (The S&P 500 returned 10.9% last year, including dividends.)

"A lot of people were looking for a stronger second half, with stronger economic-growth numbers, and that doesn't look like it is going to pan out," says Stephen Sachs, director of trading at mutual-fund group Rydex Investments in Rockville, Md.

To stock bulls, all this negative talk could simply be fodder for a rally in the second half of the year. If the Fed manages to stop raising rates before it kills economic growth, and if oil prices fall to more-manageable levels, some people who have been avoiding stocks could move money back into the market, these investors say. If that happens, the optimists hope, the late-year rally could lift stocks more than 10% and the Dow industrials could finish the year well above 11000, pushing toward the record 11722.98 hit in January 2000, more than five years ago. (The S&P 500 and Nasdaq Composite Index, which fell harder than the Dow did in the market decline, are significantly further from their records, which also date from 2000.)

How all of this turns out will depend partly on when the Fed decides to stop raising rates, and on what oil does and how corporate profits hold up. Profit growth has slowed significantly from the breakneck rate of more than 20% seen last year, but the optimists hope stocks will rise if profit increases come in better than the 7.3% that has been projected, according to Thomson First Call, for companies in the S&P 500 during the quarter just ended.

"The one thing I can look for, and it is a big thing, is that quarterly earnings reports will be coming out soon. It is a nicely growing economy and we could get some good earnings," says Richard Sichel, chief investment officer at Philadelphia Trust.

As investors await the quarterly profit news, oil is at the front of their minds. "If oil prices get much above [the $60 mark], I think you would have to start thinking about taking chips off the table and getting more defensive," says Henry Herrmann, chief executive at mutual-fund group Waddell &Reed in Overland Park, Kansas. He, too, expects a stock rally, but only, he says, if oil prices avoid a return to $60.

One widespread hope is that slowing economic growth will have a silver lining. "In that environment, it will be very tough for high oil prices to be sustainable," says John Lynch, chief market analyst at Evergreen Investments, Wachovia's money-management unit. 



License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   INi81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles | iinv : Investing/Securities   NSm11 : Equity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | gpersf : Personal Finance | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | gcat : Political/General News | glife : Living/Lifestyle | m13 : Money/Forex Markets   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCPIC | NND | SPE | TFR | TPT   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument J000000020050701e1710003s  


 CLMCredit Markets   HDMarket's Margin for Error Narrows --- Many Investors Bet the Fed Will Pause in Raising Rates; Waiting, Hoping for a Hint   BYBy Michael Mackenzie Dow Jones Newswires    WC751 words   PD1 July 2005   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGC4   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 2005, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LPThe high-stakes game of poker between the Federal Reserve and the Treasurys market continued, with bond investors still calling the central bank's bluff over the extent of future rate increases.

The Fed yesterday raised its federal-funds target rate by another quarter percentage point to 3.25%, and gave no sign that a pause in tightening is imminent. In reaction, long-dated Treasurys rallied strongly.
   TDThis test of wills is the basis of a bet that could make or break many fixed-income investors during the second half of the year. It revolves around whether the Fed will halt its monetary tightening when the federal-funds rate reaches the area around 3.5% or 3.75%, or keep adjusting the cost of overnight borrowing in measured steps toward or beyond the 4% threshold.

For now, the Fed's policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee, in its role as the ultimate judge and jury of the bond market's various swings in sentiment, is keeping its options open. At the conclusion of its two-day policy meeting, the FOMC not only met the expectations of a rate hike, it also released a statement similar in substance to the one from its May meeting. "Although energy prices have risen further, the [economic] expansion remains firm and labor-market conditions continue to improve gradually," the FOMC said. "Pressures on inflation have stayed elevated, but longer-term inflation expectations remain well-contained."

Dominic Konstam, head of interest rate strategy at Credit Suisse First Boston in New York, said, "The Fed is not giving any ground on the idea among many investors that a pause is around the corner. Even if they do decide to pause tightening policy in a couple of months, the Fed wants to maintain a restrictive face for the bond market."

The six-week hiatus before the next Fed meeting provides the market with some breathing room. But it's walking a very fine line.

"There is no longer much of a margin for error," said Stephen Stanley, chief economist at RBS Greenwich Capital in Greenwich, Conn. He noted that current market forecasts for the year-end federal-funds rate and Treasurys out to 10 years in maturity are all below 4%.

Despite the current debate over the economy's growth prospects, some investors believe things are much better than low Treasury yields imply. Economic factors "will ultimately prevail, and rates are likely to move meaningfully higher than they are today," said Colin Lundgren, head of institutional fixed-income at American Express Asset Management Group in Minneapolis. He expects rate hikes beyond the 3.75% expected by the market, subject to future economic data.

Aside from data, the test of wills between the bond market and the FOMC may be resolved to some degree by Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan's semiannual address before Congress on July 20. "Greenspan will be able to flesh out in great detail policy makers' thinking on the outlook and the stance of policy," said RBS Greenwich's Stanley.

This has the bond market prepared for another increase of a quarter percentage point, and some language that hints at a pause after one more increase to 3.75%. Should the Fed ultimately pause, one big change in Treasurys would be a widening in the difference between short- and long-term yields -- in market terms, a steepening yield curve -- as investors build an inflation premium into longer-dated Treasury yields.

For now, flattening remains the driving trend. And in post-FOMC trading, the margin between two- and 10-year note yields continued to shrink, falling below 0.3 percentage point for the first time since the start of 2001.

"Most of the rally in bonds is explained by the compression of inflation," said Eric Hiller, head of derivatives interest rate strategy at Bank of America. "The curve is certainly flatter, with some room to continue."

At 4 p.m., the benchmark 10-year note was up 17/32 point, or $5.31 per $1,000 face value, at 101 21/32. Its yield fell to 3.922% from 3.986% Wednesday, as yields move inversely to prices. The 30-year bond was up 1 7/32 points at 118 15/32 to yield 4.193%, down from 4.263% Wednesday. 

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mntdbt : National Government Debt/Bond Markets | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | e1202 : Interest Rates | gvexe : Executive Branch | gvtre : Treasury Department | m131 : Money Markets | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCFED | TRE | USG | NND | TPX | CRD | MIM   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument J000000020050701e1710000j  



 HDFT.com site : Bourses fall after US rate hopes dashed.   BYDarryl Thomson    WC483 words   PD1 July 2005   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2005 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPEuropean bourses eased at the open on Friday after the US Federal Reserve hinted that its monetary tightening cycle had not ended with the quarter point interest rate rise on Thursday.

It was the ninth straight 25 basis point by the Fed, and was widely expected, but the fact the central bank signalled more to come disappointed hopes the cycle of monetary tightening ended there.
   TDThe dollar climbed to nine-month highs against the yen and brought recent highs versus the euro near.

On Wall Street, the Dow Jones Industrial Average was almost 1 per cent down at 10,274.97, while the S&P 500 index lost 0.7 per cent to 1,191.33. The Nasdaq Composite index eased 0.6 per cent to 2,056.96. See more on Thursday's Wall Street

It is Independence Day on Monday in the US and investors are also reluctant to take positions ahead of the long weekend.

The FTSE Eurofirst 300 fell 0.2 per cent to 1,139.43, but the main three exchanges fared better with the Xetra Dax in Frankfurt flat at 4,585.83 and the Paris CAC-40 up 0.1 per cent to 4,231.39 and the FTSE 100 in London 0.1 per cent to the good at 5,118.6.

Altana, the German drug maker, slumped 11.5 per cent to ?41.90, after Pfizer returned rights to the Daxas drug. Altana said it remained confident of meeting its full-year targets despite an increase in research and development spending as a consequence of the Pfizer rebuff. Hans-Joachim Lohrisch said he still felt Daxas had blockbuster potential, sales potential of $1bn.

Heineken added 0.7 per cent to ?25.71 after it was upgraded to 'hold' from 'reduce' by Dresdner Kleinwort Wassertstein. The German broker lifted its forecasts for the Dutch brewing group to take into account recent currency movements and slightly better-than-expected pricing and volumes in Western Europe. Dresdner lifted its price target to ?24.7 from ?23.

ABB was cut to 'sell' from 'hold' by Citigroup and to 'hold' from 'buy' by ING after the group warned on Thursday that restructuring charges and other factors would mean its earnings would not meet market expectations in the second quarter.

ING cut its estimates by 10 per cent for 2005 and 11.5 per cent for 2006 and set a new price target of SFr8.1. The Dutch broker cited the recent outperformance of the share price and low visibility on the operational side as reasons for the downgrade.

Citigroup Smith Barney cut its rating as it said this profit warning casts a pall over the long-term margin potential of the group and over the new 2009 targets which the company will unveil in September. 
   RF43201282   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSm11 : Equity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTCOM00020050702e17100004  



 HDFT.com site : Bourses seen falling after US rate hopes dashed.   BYDarryl Thomson    WC375 words   PD1 July 2005   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2005 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPEuropean bourses are seen easing at the open on Friday after the US Federal Reserve hinted that its monetary tightening cycle had not ended with the quarter point interest rate rise on Thursday.

It was the ninth straight 25 basis point by the Fed, and was widely expected, but the fact the central bank signalled more to come disappointed hopes the cycle of monetary tightening ended there.
   TDThe dollar climbed to nine-month highs against the yen and brought recent highs versus the euro near.

On Wall Street, the Dow Jones Industrial Average was almost 1 per cent down at 10,274.97, while the S&P 500 index lost 0.7 per cent to 1,191.33. The Nasdaq Composite index eased 0.6 per cent to 2,056.96. See more on Thursday's Wall Street

It is Independence Day on Monday in the US and investors are also reluctant to take positions ahead of the long weekend.

Spread betters in London are calling the FTSE 100 , CAC-40 , and DAX indices between 11 and 27 points down, according to Reuters.

Heineken was upgraded to 'hold' from 'reduce' by Dresdner Kleinwort Wassertstein. The German broker lifted its forecasts for the Dutch brewing group to take into account recent currency movements and slightly better-than-expected pricing and volumes in Western Europe. Dresdner lifted its price target to ?24.7 from ?23.

ABB was cut to 'sell' from 'hold' by Citigroup and to 'hold' from 'buy' by ING after the group warned on Thursday that restructuring charges and other factors would mean its earnings would not meet market expectations in the second quarter.

ING cut its estimates by 10 per cent for 2005 and 11.5 per cent for 2006 and set a new price target of SFr8.1. The Dutch broker cited the recent outperformance of the share price and low visibility on the operational side as reasosns for the downgrade.

Citigroup Smith Barney cut its rating as it said this profit warning casts a pall over the long-term margin potential of the group and over the new 2009 targets which the company will unveil in September. 
   RF43201281   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSm11 : Equity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTCOM00020050702e17100003  



 HDUPDATE 1-Fed rate hike tugs U.S. bank prime rates higher     BYBy Aleksandrs Rozens     WC477 words   PD30 June 2005   ET23:09   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2005 Reuters Limited  
   LP(Adds comments from analysts, new throughout)  

NEW YORK, June 30 (Reuters) - U.S. banks on Thursday raised prime rates, the borrowing rate they charge their best customers and a benchmark for consumer loans, after the Federal Reserve raised a key short-term rate for the ninth consecutive time since last June.  
   TDThe increase in the prime rates means auto loans, home equity loans and adjustable rate mortgages will be more costly for consumers.  

Also, keeping an unpaid balance on credit cards will be more expensive.  

The Fed increased the federal funds rate by 25 basis points to 3.25 percent. The fed funds rate, the rate at which banks borrow money from each other overnight, serves as a benchmark for many consumer loans.  

Banks that increased their prime rates by one-quarter point to 6.25 percent included Wells Fargo & Co. , KeyCorp and U.S. Bancorp .  

While the cost of money got more expensive, Thursday's interest-rate increase likely won't put a brake on the housing market in the near term because rates for 30-year and 15-year home loans are still near historic lows, say analysts.  

These longer home loans are closely linked to 10-year U.S. Treasury yields which fell after the Fed move. In recent weeks, rates for these longer dated mortgage loans have fallen below year-ago levels.  

This week 30-year mortgage rates were at 5.53 percent, down from 6.21 percent a year ago, while 15-year rates were 5.12 percent, down from 5.62 percent.  

"Because 30-year and 15-year mortgage rates are so cheap, we're still seeing really strong activity in the housing market," said Amy Crews Cutts, deputy chief economist at Freddie Mac.  

Thursday's rate hike, meanwhile, probably will will slow home equity lending, a big source of profit for many banks and mortgage lenders.  

Home equity loan rates are closely linked to prime rates and have become increasingly popular because of gains in home values. Also, consumers have used home equity loans to pay down their credit card debt in recent years because borrowing costs on these loans are lower.  

"The most and immediate effect (from the interest-rate increases) will be on home equity lending," said Mark Zandi, chief economist at Economy.com.  

The rising interest rates may prompt some home owners to shift out of adjustable rate mortgages into fixed rate home loans to avoid higher monthly borrowing costs, Douglas Duncan, chief economist at the Mortgage Bankers Association, said.  

According to Cutts, rates for ARMS indexed off of one-year Treasuries have risen to 4.25 percent from 4.13 percent a year ago.  
   RFFINANCIAL-PRIMERATES (UPDATE 1)|LANGEN|ABN|E|RBN|U|D|M|RNP|DNP   INibcs : Business/Consumer Services | ibnk : Banking/Credit | icre : Construction/Real Estate   NSe1122 : Mortgage Applications/Refinancing | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m16 : Fund Markets | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCBNK | FIN | MTG | DBT | REA | FUND | INT | MCE   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument LBA0000020050630e16u002k4  



 HDUS SWAPS - Spreads push wider after Fed hikes rate      BYBy Richard Leong      WC355 words   PD30 June 2005   ET22:02   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2005 Reuters Limited   
   LPNEW YORK, June 30 (Reuters) - Spreads on U.S. interest rate swaps widened on Thursday after the Federal Reserve as expected raised short-term U.S. rates 25 basis points to 3.25 percent, and pledged to raise rates further gradually.   

Swap spreads gapped out mostly 0.25 basis point, but five-year spreads blew out 1.50 basis points, a move which some analysts attributed to month-end hedging activity.   
   TD"The biggest surprise is that there were no surprises. The big shift in strategy has always taken place at a two-day meeting. All the forward looking language stayed the same," said Christopher Low, chief economist at FTN Financial.   

Some players had hoped for hints from the Fed that it was close to the end of its rate-raising campaign, amid slowing growth in the manufacturing sector and uneven hirings in the job market, analysts said.   

"There is a little more hawkish tone in regards to inflation," Eric Hiller, interest rate derivatives strategist at Banc of America Securities LLC. "People thought there might be dovishness in the statement, but we didn't."   

The Federal Open Market Committee said after its two-day meeting that its monetary policy is still "accommodative" and it will stop its rate increases at a "measured" pace. The Fed's policy arm remained wary of inflation.   

"Pressures on inflation have stayed elevated, but longer-term inflation expectations remain well contained," the FOMC said in its post-meeting statement.   

The Fed, not budging from its current rate stand, could send the key federal funds rate to 4 percent by early next year, according to FTN's Low.   

Despite facing raising short-term rates, swap spreads will likely holding in their recent ranges, analysts said.   

Meanwhile, the swap curve flattened sharply after the FOMC rate increase, as the Treasuries market rallied.   

The two-to-10-year part of the swap curve flattened to 36.5 basis points from 39.6 basis points late Wednesday.   
   RFMARKETS-SWAPS|LANGEN|Table|ABN|E|RBN|D|M|MNI|U|RNP|DNP   INibcs : Business/Consumer Services | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe1122 : Mortgage Applications/Refinancing | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m15 : Derivative Securities | mcpdbt : Corporate Debt/Bond Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America | usny : New York | use : Northeast U.S.   IPCINT | MCE | DBT | GVD | DRV | USC | AGN | MTG | BNK | FIN | MUNI   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument LBA0000020050630e16u002ef  



 HDINSTANT VIEW-1: Fed raises fed funds rates 25 bp to 3.25 pct     WC561 words   PD30 June 2005   ET20:24   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2005 Reuters Limited  
   LPNEW YORK, June 30 (Reuters) - The Federal Reserve raised its target for the federal funds rate by 25 basis points as expected to 3.25 pct and gave no sign that the year long monetary policy tightening cycle was ending.  

Story: [nTRT000027] Text: [nN30203045] COMMENTARY:  
   TDKEVIN LOGAN, ECONOMIST, DRESDNER KLEINWORT WASSERSTEIN, NEW YORK:  

"It is exactly as expected. They have just decided today that they are going to raise the rate to 3.50 percent at the next meeting on August 9. That was today's decision. The economy is still, in their belief, moving along at a decent growth pace, inflation is still potentially going to move higher and they want the rate to be neutral. They don't want it to be accommodative. They said it is still accommodative at this level. It is identical to the last statement and they will continue to move along at a 25 basis point rate."  

KEITH HEMBRE, CHIEF ECONOMIST, U.S. BANCORP ASSET MANAGEMENT, MINNEAPOLIS  

"It's as expected: the 25 basis point move, the retention of the classification of polices as accommodative, and the characterization of growth.  

"I was struck by the characterization that inflation being elevated. Aside from oil prices, recent (inflation) measures have stabilized a bit. They no longer reference pricing power being evident.  

It means that the odds highly stacked for another rate hike at the Aug 9th meeting. The "accommodative" and "measured" words will be dropped, and further moves by the Fed are much less certain. It (the fed funds target) will be at the bottom of the range, which FOMC participants have described as the neutral policy rate."  

JOHN BEERLING, REGIONAL FOREIGN EXCHANGE TRADING DESK MANAGER, WELLS FARGO, MINNEAPOLIS:  

"The dollar has found a little bid on it on the view that we are certainly not seeing anything signaling an end to this policy. We still have a favorable interest rate policy for the dollar. Some people have interpreted this statement to be slightly more hawkish than the last one, but it is pretty similar."  

JOSEPH LaVORGNA, CHIEF U.S. FIXED INCOME ECONOMIST, DEUTSCHE BANK SECURITIES, NEW YORK:  

"The first paragraph of the Fed's statement was stream-lined a little bit. There were virtually no surprises in the statement. The market shaved some gains, maybe because some people were disappointed that the Fed offered no hint that it would pause. We're looking for a rate hike in August and September and a four percent federal funds rate by the end of the year."  

CHARMAINE BUSKAS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE ANALYST, ECONOMY.COM, WEST CHESTER, PENNSYLVANIA:  

"The market was expecting a 25 basis point hike and the fact the Fed kept in 'measured' and 'the balance of risks unchanged' phrase suggests the dollar will continue to find support in the near term." MARKET REACTION: -- U.S. Treasury yields rose slightly, with the benchmark 10-year Treasury note yield around 3.97 pct. -- The euro <EUR=> initially slipped against the dollar, trading at $1.2080 soon after the report from about $1.2090 shortly prior. The dollar rises against the yen, trading at about 110.90 yen <JPY=> from about 110.80 yen shortly prior.  
   RFECONOMY-INSTANT (UPDATE 1)|LANGEN|Table|ABN|M|D|MNI|O|OIL|C|GRO|MTL|SOF   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1102 : Money Supply | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | gvexe : Executive Branch | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCMCE | ECI | FED | CEN | INT | GVD | DBT | WASH   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument LBA0000020050630e16u0028g  



 HDINSTANT VIEW-4-Stocks-Fed raises U.S. rates for 9th time      WC797 words   PD30 June 2005   ET20:25   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2005 Reuters Limited   
   LP(Adds comment)   

NEW YORK, June 30 (Reuters) - The Federal Reserve on Thursday raised short-term interest rates a quarter-percentage point for a ninth time in row, and gave no sign that a year-long campaign of increases was nearing an end.   
   TDThe move by the Federal Open Mark Committee lifted the federal funds rate to 3.25 percent, its highest level since mid-September 2001. The Fed also raised the more symbolic discount rate a matching quarter-point to 4.25 percent.   

Following are comments from stock market analysts and strategists.   

U.S. blue chip stocks edged lower after the announcement.   

MICHAEL SHELDON, CHIEF MARKET STRATEGIST, SPENCER CLARKE, NEW YORK:   

"There was no change in the language except they mentioned pressures on inflation remained inflated -- it's a bit of a surprise to me.   

"There could be mild disappointment because the Fed did not provide any real guidance in terms of when it will stop raising rates.   

"So I would not be surprised to see markets a little lower."   

JOHN PERSON, NATIONALFUTURES.COM, PRESIDENT, PALM BEACH, FLORIDA.   

"The fact that the Fed said pressures on inflation are still elevated means that they are probably not close to the end of their interest rate hiking campaign.   

"This leaves more doubt overhanging the market and will probably be construed as detrimental to equity prices. "This will probably contain any attempts for a sustained rally in the near term."   

TODD CLARK, HEAD OF LISTED TRADING, WELLS FARGO SECURITIES, SAN FRANCISCO:   

"Absolutely as advertised. It shouldn't be a shock. We're getting a conflict between those who were hoping that the Fed might signal an end to the tightening stream and those who were afraid that if they did say end and was near that the economy might be slowing down. So you've got a real tug of war here.   

"We're back to trading off the end of the quarter."   

VICTOR PUGLIESE, FIRST ALBANY CORP., NEW YORK:   

"The economy is still doing well and if the housing market doesn't slow down somewhat I think the Fed will keep raising rates a couple more times at least to soften that up a little bit."   

BILL STRAZZULLO, CHIEF MARKET STRATEGIST, STATE STREET GLOBAL MARKETS, BOSTON   

"The market was looking for any sign that this process is winding down and this statement doesn't give any sense the Fed is done. It's a slight negative for equity markets because there's nothing that gives a clue we're close to the end. People were bullish on equities because they thought 3.5 percent was the end of the game. If they were winding down, they'd give a hint in this statement that was the case.   

It's probably a slight negative, still not any light at the end of the tunnel. It's not a major negative because the majority of people feel it was still too early for that to happen anyway and that neutral level is more like 4 percent. It would appear we're going to get at least several more quarter-point increases."   

JOHN HUGHES, MANAGING DIRECTOR, EPIPHANY EQUITY RESEARCH, NEW YORK   

"It seems as though the Fed was suggesting that inflation pressures are very short term. That could be a hint that everything's under control right now. It ... could be a little hint that we're getting to the end of the rate cycle.   

"I think we'll see a bit of chopping around (on the market) -- it's also the end of the quarter. But I think the market will take this in its stride."   

ROBERT TOLL, CHIEF EXECUTIVE, TOLL BROTHERS INC.   

"Sounds like we're in Nirvana.   

"The industrial heartland -- the heart -- isn't pumping so well right now. By taking up rates further you run the risk of putting a spike or a dagger in the heartland, as opposed to just slowing things down. But (Greenspan) has got all the info, and I'm just an outside kibitzer. For the moment, I'm not going to say he's doing the wrong thing. I'll go with him."   

JEFFREY N. KLEINTOP, CHIEF INVESTMENT STRATEGIST, PNC ADVISORS, PHILADELPHIA:   

"The market is a little disappointed that the Fed didn't telegraph a little bit that it was close to being done. Investors wanted to see that the Fed was going to say something that they were close to being finished.   

"The Fed in this statement gave us more of what we got the last time. Pressures on inflation remain, but in the long term the economy is performing well." (Reuters Wall Street Desk 646-223-6110)   
   RFMARKETS-STOCKS-INSTANTVIEW (UPDATE 4)|LANGEN|ABN|D|E   INi81401 : Central Banking | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | ibnk : Banking/Credit | i814 : Banking   NSe1102 : Money Supply | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m11 : Equity Markets | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | mcpdbt : Corporate Debt/Bond Markets | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCFED | INT | MCE | STX | CEN | MUNI | DBT | FIN | BNK   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument LBA0000020050630e16u0028f  



 HDFACTBOX-U.S. Fed policymakers' recent comments     WC1,230 words   PD30 June 2005   ET20:22   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2005 Reuters Limited  
   LPNEW YORK, June 30 (Reuters) - The Federal Reserve raised key U.S. interest rates a quarter-percentage point on Thursday for a ninth straight time and gave no sign a year-long campaign of increases was nearing an end.  

The U.S. central bank's policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee unanimously voted to lift the benchmark federal funds rate to 3.25 percent, as economists had expected.  
   TDThe following is a summary of recent comments by Federal Reserve policymakers:  

* Denotes voting member of the FOMC in 2005. ------------------------------------------------------------  

EXCERPTS FROM THE FOMC STATEMENT, JUNE 30 MEETING  

"The Federal Open Market Committee decided today to raise its target for the federal funds rate by 25 basis points to 3.25 percent.  

"The Committee believes that, even after this action, the stance of monetary policy remains accommodative and, coupled with robust underlying growth in productivity, is providing ongoing support to economic activity. Although energy prices have risen further, the expansion remains firm and labor market conditions continue to improve gradually. Pressures on inflation have stayed elevated, but longer-term inflation expectations remain well contained.  

"The Committee perceives that, with appropriate monetary policy action, the upside and downside risks to the attainment of both sustainable growth and price stability should be kept roughly equal. With underlying inflation expected to be contained, the Committee believes that policy accommodation can be removed at a pace that is likely to be measured."  

* FED CHAIRMAN ALAN GREENSPAN, JUNE 23  

On China: "A policy to dismantle the global trading system, in a misguided effort to protect jobs from competition, would rebound to the eventual detriment of all U.S. job seekers, as well as millions of American consumers."  

"My basic concern is that if we are forced to implement a very significant unilateral tariff, the dangers to the overall financial system, in my judgment, are very large."  

* FED GOVERNOR MARK OLSON, JUNE 23  

"To the extent that ... new mortgage products promote homebuying decisions that are premised on unrealistic rates of home appreciation, they raise concerns."  

CLEVELAND FED PRESIDENT SANDRA PIANALTO, JUNE 23  

"Increasingly, home owners are using home equity as a source of ready cash ... this doesn't bode well for the ownership society that we're trying to build."  

RICHMOND FED PRESIDENT JEFFREY LACKER, JUNE 20  

"A moderate pace of continued tightening is a sensible outlook at this point and it's too soon to say when we're going to stop."  

"The inflation outlook is more favorable than it was a couple of months ago. I've been happy that the pass-through to core (prices) has been less than feared and the expectations embedded (in inflation-linked bonds) has subsided."  

* MINNEAPOLIS FED PRESIDENT GARY STERN, JUNE 20  

"We do not see any factors at this point to stop monetary tightening ... It's appropriate to raise rates at a measured pace, although we can't say to what level."  

KANSAS CITY FED PRESIDENT THOMAS HOENIG, JUNE 16  

"Most judge it (the neutral rate) to be somewhere between 3-1/2 percent and 4-1/2 percent."  

"In that context we would, I think, in the long term want to be somewhere within that range. And as the economy has grown well, we want to be in that range sooner rather than later."  

ST. LOUIS FED PRESIDENT WILLIAM POOLE, JUNE 14  

"I do not believe that there is a term-structure puzzle reflected in interest rate behavior over the past year or so...Recent experience is unusual but far from unprecedented."  

"This (global savings glut) factor does not solve the term structure puzzle, for two important reasons. First ... the glut has been in force throughout this decade, while the term-structure puzzle refers to the period since early 2004."  

"Second, the glut is a source of downward pressure on real interest rates at all maturities since 2001, while the term structure puzzle instead refers to the recent flat trend of the long rate despite a significant increase in the short rate."  

RICHMOND FED PRESIDENT JEFFREY LACKER, JUNE 14  

"I think we're fairly accommodative at these rates. I agree the outlook ... as the FOMC (Federal Open Market Committee) statement reads, is for continued measured increases. I think that it is too early to say when we're going to stop. It's obviously going to be data-dependent."  

"I've been really pleased that the market based measures of inflation expectations have subsided in the last month or two. It is clear now that the whiff of softness (in growth) that we got in the spring was transitory and the inflation numbers have been better after an adverse bulge."  

* FED GOVERNOR SUSAN BIES, JUNE 14  

"In the commercial and residential real estate sectors, we worry that borrowers could become increasingly speculative, buying beyond their means and hoping for asset price appreciation -- whether they are buying for their own use or strictly for the sake of investment."  

"Industry experts are increasingly concerned about the quality of collateral valuations relied upon in home equity lending and residential refinancing activities."  

* PHILADELPHIA FED PRESIDENT ANTHONY SANTOMERO, JUNE 11  

"If the economy evolves as I anticipate over the next year or so, I expect we will continue to move the federal funds rate toward neutrality at a measured pace."  

"Nonetheless, I think we must all recognize that as the economy continues on its path of expansion, price dynamics are prone to shift. As productivity growth returns to trend, unit labor costs may start to rise, potentially putting pressure on prices."  

* FED CHAIRMAN ALAN GREENSPAN, June 9  

"... Despite some of the risks that I have highlighted, the U.S. economy seems to be on a reasonably firm footing, and underlying inflation remains contained.  

"Accordingly, the Federal Open Market Committee in its May meeting reaffirmed that it '... believes that policy accommodation can be removed at a pace that is likely to be measured. Nonetheless, the Committee will respond to changes in economic prospects as needed to fulfill its obligation to maintain price stability.'"  

* FED GOVERNOR SUSAN BIES, JUNE 8  

"This economy may be slowing but this is still a good economy ... We are doing pretty good growing at 3-1/2 percent."  

On the housing market: "There might be a few projects in a few cities that deserve much more scrutiny from the lenders than what they're getting today."  

On risk management: "We are comfortable banks are doing a good job."  

EXCERPTS MAY 3 FOMC MEETING MINUTES, RELEASED MAY 24  

"Core measures of price inflation had moved up over recent quarters and particularly so over the last few months."  

"A discernible upcreep was apparent in survey measures of short- and, to a limited extent, long-term inflation expectations over recent months."  

"... the current level of short-term rates remained too low to be consistent with sustainable growth and stable prices in the long run."  

The 'measured pace' language "was clearly conditioned on economic developments and therefore would not stand in the way of either a pause or a step-up in policy firming depending on events."  

"Declines in energy prices in recent weeks were viewed as welcome, but participants noted that far-dated futures prices for oil remained quite elevated and that persistently high energy prices could trigger a range of deleterious effects on the economy."  
   RFECONOMY-FED-COMMENTS|LANGEN|ABN|M|D   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe1102 : Money Supply | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCFED | DBT | INT | MCE | CEN   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument LBA0000020050630e16u0027w  



 HDJGB yields hit 22-month lows on eve of tankan     BYBy David McMahon     WC630 words   PD30 June 2005   ET03:44   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2005 Reuters Limited  
   LPTOKYO, June 30 (Reuters) - The yield on key 10-year Japanese government bonds hit a 22-month low on Thursday, pushed down by month-end buying and views that a Bank of Japan business sentiment survey will do little to cool a price rally.  

Dealers said although trade was quiet ahead of Friday's release of the central bank's quarterly tankan survey, some players were looking to stock up on bonds beforehand, betting a weak reading could send yields even lower and prices higher.  
   TD"The risk is that a weak tankan could spark another tumble in yields, in which case it makes sense to get in early and buy today," said a trader at a Japanese primary dealer.  

Such buying, coupled with duration extensions by long-term investors such as pension funds, helped spark a big rally at the long end on Wednesday.  

Fund managers often buy long-dated bonds at the end of the month to match a monthly extension in the duration, or average maturity of bonds, in benchmark indices such as the Nomura BPI.  

Ten-year JGB futures <0#2JGB:> for delivery in September edged up 0.05 point in price to 141.20.  

The benchmark 10-year JGB yield <0#JPTSY=JBTC> fell one basis point to 1.165 percent, the lowest since Aug. 15, 2003. The benchmark five-year debt yield fell one basis point to 0.400 percent, also a 22-month low.  

TANKAN IN FOCUS  

Partly thanks to robust domestic demand, the tankan's headline diffusion index is seen rising to 15, according to forecasts in a Reuters poll, up from the previous reading of 14.  

Still, Japan's economy is struggling to break out of a soft patch due to sluggish exports, especially to China.  

Industrial output data on Wednesday suggested that a buildup of inventories in the tech sector was taking a surprisingly long time to fall, adding to concerns that a recovery in output may still be several quarters away, some analysts said.  

"Looking at industrial production data, I wonder if we should really expect an improvement in the tankan," said Osamu Tamada, assistant manager of research at Mizuho Investors Securities.  

The 10-year JGB yield has tumbled around 15 basis points in the past two weeks, swept up in a global bond rally driven by concerns that record-high oil prices will slow economic growth and some European central banks could cut rates.  

Meanwhile, in Japan a series of comments by BOJ board members has suggested that the central bank is in no hurry to dismantle its quantitative easing policy, also helping bonds.  

Interest rate futures show the market expects short-term rates in Japan to stay anchored near zero until early 2007.  

JGB prices rose even as the Nikkei share average <.N225> climbed to a fresh 11-week closing high and the yen sat near its lowest level in nine months against the dollar. A weaker yen helps Japan's exports and is often seen as a cue to sell by bond dealers.  

Some dealers say the rally could falter next month, when the market will be flooded with supply due to a heavy auction schedule that includes 30- and 15-year floating rate JGBs.  

The Federal Reserve is another risk for the market. The Fed is expected to raise rates by a quarter percentage point to 3.25 percent later on Thursday in its ninth straight rate increase.  

But traders are more interested in the Fed's policy statement for clues on how long it will keep raising rates. (Additional reporting by Hideyuki Sano)  
   RFMARKETS-JAPAN-JGB (UPDATE 2)|LANGEN|ABN|D|M|J|NAT|RBN|RNP|DNP|PTD|PMF   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | e214 : Sub-national/Local Borrowing | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e21 : Government Finance | e212 : Government Borrowing | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REjap : Japan | usa : United States | asiaz : Asia | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America   IPCDBT | GVD | INT | MCE   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument LBA0000020050630e16u000hg  



 HDPRESS DIGEST - Washington Post Business - June 30     WC175 words   PD30 June 2005   ET07:31   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2005 Reuters Limited  
   LPWASHINGTON, June 30 (Reuters) - The Washington Post included the following items on the front page of its business section on June 30. Reuters has not verified these stories.  

---  
   TDWilliam Donaldson presided over the last public meeting of his controversial tenure as Securities and Exchange Commission chairman in a hail of barbs and even threats of litigation, but he shrugged off the rancor as just part of the job.  

---  

In financial markets, they call it "the Greenspan put" -- a belief that if stock or bond prices fall too much, the Federal Reserve will help prop them up with quick interest rate cuts to pump more cash into the system.  

---  

BEIJING - China's attempt to buy an American oil company has aroused national security and free-trade objections in Washington, But the effort has been portrayed in Beijing as business-as-usual for a country scouring the world to meet soaring energy demands.  

---  
   RFLANGEN|ABN|E|U|RBN|Z|O|OIL|M|D|RNP|DNP|PEN|PMF   INi1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas   NSe1102 : Money Supply | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m11 : Equity Markets | nsum : News Digest | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | niwe : IWE Filter   REchina : China | usa : United States | asiaz : Asia | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America   IPCPRESS | FED | INT | MCE | STX | CRU | ENR   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument LBA0000020050630e16u000a3  



 HDWhat the Fed's Moves Mean for Savers --- With Another Rate Increase Expected, Online Accounts, One-Year CDs Should Benefit   BYBy Jane J. Kim    WC1,850 words   PD30 June 2005   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGD1   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 2005, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LPTHE FEDERAL RESERVE is expected to boost the nation's key short-term interest rate today for the ninth time since last June -- but not all savers are likely to benefit equally.

The Fed will likely increase the benchmark federal-funds rate -- the rate banks charge each other for overnight loans -- by a quarter-percentage point to 3.25%, up from 1% when the Fed began its series of increases in 2004. An additional quarter-percentage-point increase is expected at the Fed's following meeting in August.
   TDFor savers, much depends on a particular bank's eagerness to attract new deposits by rapidly passing on the rate increases. Many online banks, local banks and credit unions have been quicker to share the Fed's rate increases with customers -- especially in savings, money-market accounts and short-term certificates of deposit. Money-market mutual funds also have passed on earlier Fed rate increases fairly swiftly to savers. The larger, traditional banks with a dominant market share have been slower to do that.

Many of the smaller and online banks say they expect to adjust their rates within days of a Fed rate increase. Since money-market mutual funds invest in short-term securities, a Fed move will be followed within weeks by an equivalent climb in their yields. For larger banks, the lag period can be longer.

Some of the institutions currently offering the highest rates include online banks such as ING Direct, a unit of ING Groep NV, which has boosted rates on its Orange Savings Account to 3.0% from 2.0% a year ago, and MetLife Bank NA, a unit of MetLife Inc., which has raised rates on its one-year CD to 3.9% from 2.3% a year ago. Capital One Financial Corp.'s money-market and high-yield savings accounts now yield 3.15%, up from 1.75% in June 2004. The bank also lowered the required minimum deposits on its money-market accounts to $100 from $10,000 in February; there are no minimums on its high-yield savings accounts.

Online banks are able to offer higher rates on savings products because they don't have the fixed expenses of maintaining a network of branches. Since these banks attract rate-sensitive customers, they can't afford to lag behind any moves by the Fed or their competitors.

Certain types of accounts have been faster to pass on rate increases. Long-term rates have barely budged, giving investors little reason to lock up their money in longer-dated CDs. Instead, shorter-term products, such as CDs with maturities of one year or less, have seen the biggest gains.

The average yield on three-month certificates of deposits, for example, increased to 1.86% this week from 0.93% a year earlier. The average yield on three-year CDs increased only to 3.55% from 2.75% in that period, according to Informa Research Services Inc.

GMAC Bank, a unit of General Motors Corp.'s GMAC Financial Services division, for instance, has boosted rates on its one-year CDs, with minimum deposits of $500, to 3.95% from 2.01% a year earlier.

Investors have responded to the higher CD rates. Total deposits in CDs of less than $100,000 at banks and thrifts increased to $883 billion in May, according to preliminary estimates from the Federal Reserve, from $794.4 billion in June 2004.

Another bright spot: Yields on money-market mutual funds, which move up rapidly in response to Fed moves. Later this year, those yields, which had fallen to as low as 0.50% in mid-2003, should move above 3%, making the funds competitive with the highest-yielding savings products. These funds now offer 2.54%, the highest level since 2001, according to iMoneyNet Inc.

Despite the Fed's campaign to raise interest rates, overall rates remain low by historical standards and short-term rates aren't much higher than the inflation rate, currently 2.2%. Therefore, many investors have eschewed cash investments for other assets, such as stocks, bonds and even commodities.

Not all institutions are passing on the higher rates on all products. In Michigan, the 0.50% yields on the money-market account for customers holding between $2,500 and $9,999 offered by Comerica Bank, a unit of Comerica Inc., haven't changed from year-earlier levels, while payouts on the savings accounts offered by HSBC Holdings PLC's HSBC Bank USA fell to 0.35% from 0.40% because of "internal funding costs," according to a bank spokesman.

Some banks may not be bumping up rates aggressively on their standard products because they are focused on offering higher rates on other products or on their "off-cycle" CDs, which run for slightly longer periods than do standard CDs but offer higher rates. HSBC Bank, for example, launched an online savings account in March that is paying 3%, while Comerica is offering a 210-day CD paying 3.5% with $2,500 in new money.

Banks have been less generous in offering attractive rates on liquid deposits such as savings and money-market accounts. The average yield on passbook accounts, for example, has increased only to 0.49% from 0.42% a year earlier, whereas average yields have increased only to 0.67% from 0.45% on their bank money-market accounts, according to Bankrate.com.

Other big banks are offering higher yields on money-market accounts and other products if customers can meet certain minimum balances. This month, for example, KeyBank, a unit of KeyCorp, launched a Key Platinum Money Market Savings account paying 3.25% for deposits between $25,000 and $49,999, and 3.75% for deposits of more than $50,000. At Bank One, a unit of J.P. Morgan Chase &Co., customers in Chicago who open a Premier One Savings account with a minimum deposit of $25,000 will receive 3.25% for 90 days. The promotion, which was announced this month, will expire July 1; customers also must open up a checking account to qualify for the rate.

Rates on bank savings products tend to be set by bank committees based on competitive pressures and their own funding needs. Many of their rates will vary by region, depending on the competition and their market strategy. At Wachovia Corp., rates on many savings products are slightly higher in regions where there is intense competitive activity, such as New York, New Jersey and Pennsylvania, than in other regions, says Larry Fuschino, director of deposit pricing.

Online banks have been quicker to raise rates after EmigrantDirect.com, a unit of Emigrant Bancorp in New York, raised the competitive bar by offering a 3% savings account yield earlier this year -- one of the highest rates at the time. (EmigrantDirect.com raised its rate again to 3.25% in March.)

The large traditional banks, however, don't have to attract deposits by offering the highest rates. "Their competitive advantage is their vast branch and ATM networks, wide suite of products and even tie-ins to insurance products" and other bank products, says Greg McBride, senior financial analyst at Bankrate.com.

The reluctance of banks to pay higher rates to depositors stands in sharp contrast to the speed at which they lowered rates when the Fed was cutting rates. Average yields on bank money-market accounts were 2.11% at the beginning of 2001 -- when rates first started to fall -- but fell quickly to 1.15% by year end, according to Bankrate.com. For lenders, the rate increases provide an opportunity to boost profit margins, which have narrowed in recent years.

---

Journal Link: WSJ.com subscribers can see how mortgage rates have moved in the past year, plus search current rates on consumer loans, at WSJ.com/PersonalJournal.

--- 


  Here's what the Fed rate increases have meant for savers: 
 
  -- Many online banks and credit unions -- and some insurance companies -- 
offer higher deposit rates than traditional banks. 
 
  -- Rates on short-term deposits, especially CDs with maturities of one year 
or less, have been among the biggest gainers. 
 
  -- Yields on money-market mutual funds are rapidly rising and now average 
just over 2.5%, beating many three- and six-month CDs.   

--- 


                    Where to Find the Best Deals 
 
  Some banks have been quicker to boost rates on savings products than others. Here are 10 that have 
been among the most generous in passing along higher rates to depositors. 
 
  BANK: ING Direct 
  PRODUCT: Orange Savings Account 
  ANNUAL PERCENTAGE YIELD (VS.YEAR-AGO LEVELS): 3.00% (up from 2.00%) 
  MINIMUM BALANCE: None 
 
  BANK: VirtualBank 
  PRODUCT: eMoney Market 
  ANNUAL PERCENTAGE YIELD (VS.YEAR-AGO LEVELS): 3.25 (up from 2.15) 
  MINIMUM BALANCE: None* 
 
  BANK: giantbank.com 
  PRODUCT: Money Market 
  ANNUAL PERCENTAGE YIELD (VS.YEAR-AGO LEVELS): 3.11 (up from 1.81) 
  MINIMUM BALANCE: $1,000 
 
  BANK: Imperial Capital Bank 
  PRODUCT: 6-month CD 
  ANNUAL PERCENTAGE YIELD (VS.YEAR-AGO LEVELS): 3.82 (up from 1.81) 
  MINIMUM BALANCE: 2,000 
 
  BANK: EverBank 
  PRODUCT: 6-month CD 
  ANNUAL PERCENTAGE YIELD (VS.YEAR-AGO LEVELS): 3.54 (up from 1.61) 
  MINIMUM BALANCE: 1,500 
 
  BANK: Advanta Bank Corp. 
  PRODUCT: 1-year CD 
  ANNUAL PERCENTAGE YIELD (VS.YEAR-AGO LEVELS): 4.01 (up from 2.55) 
  MINIMUM BALANCE: 10,000** 
 
  BANK: GMAC Bank 
  PRODUCT: 1-year CD 
  ANNUAL PERCENTAGE YIELD (VS.YEAR-AGO LEVELS): 3.95 (up from 2.01) 
  MINIMUM BALANCE: 500 
 
  BANK: MetLife Bank NA 
  PRODUCT: 1-year CD 
  ANNUAL PERCENTAGE YIELD (VS.YEAR-AGO LEVELS): 3.90 (up from 2.30) 
  MINIMUM BALANCE: 1,000 
 
  BANK: M&T Bank NA*** 
  PRODUCT: 1-year CD 
  ANNUAL PERCENTAGE YIELD (VS.YEAR-AGO LEVELS): 3.87 (up from 2.40) 
  MINIMUM BALANCE: 5,000 
 
  BANK: Nexity Bank 
  PRODUCT: 1-year CD 
  ANNUAL PERCENTAGE YIELD (VS.YEAR-AGO LEVELS): 3.90 (up from 2.30) 
  MINIMUM BALANCE: 1,000 
 
  * $100 needed to open the account, but no minimum balance is required after 
that. 
 
  ** For retail customers with no other accounts at the bank; those who have 
accounts can open a CD with a minimum of $2,500. 
 
  *** Customers must call 800-528-6532 to get this rate. 
 
  Sources: Bankrate.com; the companies   

--- 


                        What the Banks Are Paying 
 
  Here are a range of interest rates currently being paid on some popular 
bank products. 
 
                          ANNUAL  PERCENTAGE  RATE 
PRODUCT                    LOW     AVERAGE    HIGH 
3-month CD*               0.25%     1.86%     3.51% 
12-month CD*              0.35      2.83      4.25 
36-month CD*              0.85      3.55      5.00 
Interest-checking**       0.01      0.37      3.56 
Money market account***   0.02      1.00      3.50 
 
  * Based on a $25,000 investment 
  ** With a $2,500 balance 
  *** With a $10,000 balance 
 
  Note: Rates as of June 28, 2005 
 
  Source: Informa Research Services Inc. The national APYs are based on Informa's database of over 
3,000 banks, thrifts and credit unions. 
   

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   COnn : ING Groep NV   INi814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | i82 : Insurance | i82002 : Life Insurance | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | gpersf : Personal Finance | gvexe : Executive Branch | m131 : Money Markets | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | gcat : Political/General News | glife : Living/Lifestyle | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REchina : China | hkong : Hong Kong | neth : Netherlands | uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | usil : Illinois | usmi : Michigan | usny : New York | usoh : Ohio | usva : Virginia | asiaz : Asia | benluxz : Benelux Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | usc : Midwest U.S. | use : Northeast U.S. | uss : Southern U.S. | weurz : Western Europe   IPCBKG | CMR | DJCB | EWR | FED | USG | FIN | MMR | TPX | NND | PSJ   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument J000000020050630e16u0002h  



 CLMCredit Markets   HDSupermarket Debt Is Marked Down --- S&P Cuts Top Three Chains To Just Above Junk Status, But With Stable Outlooks   BYBy Tom Sullivan and Simona Covel Dow Jones Newswires    WC1,122 words   PD30 June 2005   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGC4   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 2005, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LPThe top three U.S. grocery store operators were sent to the back of the checkout line by Standard &Poor's, which cut credit ratings for Kroger Co., Albertsons Inc. and Safeway Inc. to its weakest investment-grade ranking.

Their ratings were cut a notch to triple-B-minus, a step above speculative, or junk, status, with stable outlooks.
   TDProfits were hurt by a strike in Southern California that lasted several months from 2003 into 2004, and while recovery is expected this year, "progress hasn't been sufficient," said S&P credit analyst Mary Lou Burde in a conference call after the downgrades.

Also, the supermarket industry has been pummeled by behemoth Wal-Mart Stores Inc. and warehouse-style stores like Costco Wholesale Corp., which have chipped away at grocery stores' market share.

The key challenge to the sector is "the rapid growth of alternative formats," Ms. Burde said. To move back up the credit scale, she said, the top three supermarket operators "must play to their strengths -- convenience, quality and service," and substantially cut leverage.

According to S&P, Wal-Mart has about $67 billion of the $458 billion grocery market, and its share is growing. Wal-Mart has about 1,800 "supercenters" that sell grocery items, and plans to add about 250 per year. The supermarkets have been trying to stem the tide.

"We've been very specifically addressing" a number of issues confronting the company, said Melissa Plaisance, senior vice president of finance at Pleasanton, Calif.-based Safeway, including cutting labor costs, remodeling stores and "differentiating our offerings in terms of perishables" including produce, meats and food service, she said. She said the company plans to continue to improve its debt-protection measures.

The director of corporate communications at Kroger, Gary Rhodes, said in an email that the Cincinnati-based chain was "disappointed" by the downgrade, but that its strategic plan "continues to gain momentum," which should help it eventually regain its coveted triple-B rating.

Officials at Albertsons, based in Boise, Idaho, weren't available to comment.

S&P's Ms. Burde said that given the top three supermarket operators' huge cash flow, S&P doesn't "see these (companies) going below investment grade."

According to CreditSights, an independent provider of capital structure research, Kroger had $7.5 billion in debt at the end of the first quarter, while Albertsons had $6.7 billion and Safeway, $6.8 billion.

Investors were relieved that the rating downgrades weren't worse. S&P "stabilized them, which was pretty good" for the bonds, given the severe competition from Wal-Mart and others, said Mirko Mikelic, senior fixed income analyst and portfolio manager at Grand Rapids, Mich.-based Fifth Third Asset Management. The fund has been underweight supermarket bonds.

Late yesterday, the yield margin to Treasurys of Kroger's 6.80% bonds of 2011 was narrower by 0.05 percentage point at 1.10 percentage points, according to MarketAxess, an electronic trading service for corporate bonds. The yield margin of Albertsons's 8% bonds due 2011 was 0.01 point narrower at 2.19 points over Treasurys, while the margin of Safeway's 6.50% bonds due 2011 was 0.02 point narrower at 1.13 points, according to MarketAxess.

Tuesday, Fitch Ratings changed its outlook on the three chains' triple-B ratings to negative, from stable.

Moody's Investors Service rates the senior unsecured debt of both Kroger and Albertsons a comparable Baa2, with a stable outlook. Safeway's senior unsecured debt is rated Baa2 with a negative outlook.

In other ratings changes, Moody's boosted auto supplier Visteon Corp.'s corporate family rating to B2 from B3, citing its recently closed bank facility and a new agreement to transfer two dozen plants to Ford, its former parent. "The agreement with Ford will provide Visteon with substantial resources to fund future restructuring actions as well as short term cash flow benefits and resources" to address a coming debt maturity, Moody's said.

Visteon bonds were mixed. Its 8.25% notes due 2010 jumped about three points, to 95 1/2. Its 7% notes due 2014, however, were flat at 82.

Treasurys

Pressured by a lackluster two-year note auction and cautious ahead of an expected policy announcement today by the Federal Reserve's rate-setting committee, Treasury prices fell modestly. But the 10-year note's yield, which moves inversely to its price, failed to break above 4%.

The government awarded $20 billion of two-year notes at a yield of 3.65%, slightly above where they had traded in advance in the "when-issued" market. The bid-to-cover ratio, a measure of demand, stood at 2.23, above the 2.10 average of the last 10 two-year note sales. But indirect bidders, who include foreign central banks and large institutional investors, bought only 28%, down from 37% in the last auction, in May.

"Overall, the auction was one of the weaker ones this year, especially when you account for the fact that it was a smaller-size issue," said George Goncalves, a market strategist at Banc of America Securities. Treasury had reduced the size from the last auction's $22 billion.

At 4 p.m., the benchmark 10-year note was down 3/32 point, or 94 cents per $1,000 face value, at 101 4/32. Its yield rose to 3.986% from 3.974% Tuesday. The 30-year bond was down 8/32 point at 117 8/32 to yield 4.263%, up from 4.248% Tuesday.

---

Agnes T. Crane contributed to this article.

--- 


                              AUCTION RESULTS 
 
  Here are the results of yesterday's treasury auctions. All bids are 
awarded at a single price at the market-clearing yield. Rates are determined 
by the difference between that price and the face value. 
 
  14-DAY CASH MANAGEMENT BILLS 
 
Applications .................................. $46,260,110,000 
Accepted bids ................................. $18,000,230,000 
Accepted noncompetitively ..................... $110,000 
Auction price (Rate) .......................... 99.876917 (3.165%) 
Coupon equivalent ............................. 3.213% 
Bids at market-clearing yld accepted .......... 70.63% 
Cusip number .................................. 912795TN1 
 
  The bills are dated July 1 and mature July 15, 2005. 
 
  TWO-YEAR NOTES 
 
Applications .................................. $44,584,459,000 
Accepted bids ................................. $20,000,199,000 
Bids at market-clearing yield accepted ........ 41.16% 
Accepted noncompetitively ..................... $950,358,000 
" foreign noncompetitively .................... $0 
Auction price (Rate) .......................... 99.952201 (3.650%) 
Interest rate ................................. 3.625% 
Cusip number .................................. 912828DY3 
 
  The notes are dated Jun. 30, 2005, and mature Jun. 30, 2007. 
   

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   COfrdmo : Ford Motor Company | stndpr : Standard & Poor's Corp | mcgrwh : The McGraw-Hill Companies   INi353 : Motor Vehicle Parts | i641 : Food Retailing | i351 : Motor Vehicles | i35101 : Passenger Cars | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i64 : Retail/Wholesale | i654 : Specialty Stores | i81501 : Credit Types/Services | i8395416 : Credit Rating Services | iaut : Automobiles | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifood : Food Products   NSc17 : Funding/Capital | c174 : Corporate Credit Ratings | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | c172 : Corporate Debt Instruments | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e1202 : Interest Rates | gvtre : Treasury Department | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m131 : Money Markets | mntdbt : National Government Debt/Bond Markets | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | gvexe : Executive Branch | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter   REusa : United States | usca : California | usid : Idaho | usmi : Michigan | usoh : Ohio | namz : North America | usc : Midwest U.S. | usw : Western U.S.   IPCEWR | TRE | USG | CYC | NCY | NND | TPX | CRD | MIM   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument J000000020050630e16u0000f  



 HDFT.com site : Treasuries rise ahead of Fed announcement.   BYJennifer Hughes in New York, Joanna Chung in London and James Gregory in Tokyo    WC514 words   PD30 June 2005   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2005 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPUS Treasury prices gained on Thursday, nudging yields lower, but the market was trapped in a tight trading range ahead of the Federal Reserve's interest rate announcement, due later.The Fed is expected to raise rates by a quarter-point to 3.25 per cent and market attention will focus on the accompanying statement to gauge the central bank's appetite for future rate rises.Data on Thursday were supportive of bonds. The Chicago Purchasing Managers' index slid more than expected, implying manufacturing activity in the mid-west was moderating slightly."We think weak manufacturing will do little to change the Fed's perceptions of the economy and although it cannot be ignored, it is also unlikely to have a significant influence on policy," said Mitul Kotecha, strategist at Calyon.Elsewhere, personal income inflation numbers were softer than expected, helping ease concerns about inflation.
   TDBy late morning in New York, yields on two-year notes were 2.5 basis points lower at 3.633 per cent while the ten-year yielded 3.968 per cent, down 1.8bp.Meanwhile, UK gilt prices surged and yields fell as evidence of a weakening economy fueled further speculation that the Bank of England may cut interest rates this year. Yields on the two-year gilt fell 6.9bp to 4.041 per cent while the 10-year gilt yield lost 4.4bp to 4.171 per cent. A sharp downward revision to first-quarter growth figures on Thursday was the latest set of data that has led the market to now almost fully price in a 25bp cut by September, followed by another 25bp reduction by December. The Nationwide Building Society, the mortgage lender, also added to the bullish sentiment, by reporting that house prices fell in June, leading to an annual inflation rate of 4.1 per cent, the lowest in nine years."The belief in an interest rate cut is there," said Moyeen Islam, bond strategist at Barclay's Capital. "A lot of people are saying that the BoE will move to cut as early as the July meeting." The eurozone government bond market also rallied, despite data that showed higher inflation figures in the region in May. Yields on the two-year Schatz were 2bp lower at 2.028 per cent and the 10-year Bund yield fell 7bp to 3.124 per cent. Yields on the 10-year Japanese government bond fell 1bp to a 22-month low of 1.165 per cent, amid caution ahead of today's quarterly Tankan survey and a recent trend of world-wide debt buying. Betting that a weak Tankan, the Bank of Japan's assessment of the country's economic vitality, could send yields even lower, some investors were looking to stock up before its release. Today's 22-month low also marks the bottom end of an extended decline, triggered by global economic uncertainty following recent record-setting oil prices. 
   RF43190206   INi81401 : Central Banking | i8150103 : Mortgages/Real Estate Credit | ireest : Real Estate | i814 : Banking | i81501 : Credit Types/Services | ibnk : Banking/Credit | icre : Construction/Real Estate   NSm12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mntdbt : National Government Debt/Bond Markets | c31 : Marketing | c314 : Pricing | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1103 : Inflation/Prices | e1122 : Mortgage Applications/Refinancing | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter   REjap : Japan | uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | asiaz : Asia | easiaz : Eastern Asia | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTCOM00020050701e16u0001j  



 HDBond Market Calls Fed Bluff on Rate Hikes     WC610 words   PD30 June 2005   ET23:00   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2005.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.  
   LPNEW YORK (AP) - The high stakes game of poker between the Federal Reserve and the Treasury market rolls on, with bond investors still calling the central bank's bluff over the extent of future rate hikes.  

Another 25 basis-point move higher in the federal-funds rate to 3.25 percent Thursday, and no sign from the Fed's Open Market Committee that a pause in tightening policy is imminent, was met with higher Treasury prices and lower yields.  
   TDThis test of wills is the basis of a bet that will either make or break many fixed income investors during the second half of the year. It revolves around the question of whether the Fed halts its monetary tightening program when the key federal funds rate reaches the 3.50 percent to 3.75 percent area, or keeps adjusting the cost of overnight borrowing in measured steps towards or above the 4.00 percent threshold.  

For now, the Fed's Open Market Committee, in its role as the ultimate judge and jury of the bond market's various swings in sentiment, is keeping its options open. At the conclusion of its two-day policy meeting, the FOMC not only met the expectations of a rate hike, it also released a statement similar in substance to the one that sealed its May meeting.  

"Although energy prices have risen further, the (economic) expansion remains firm and labor-market conditions continue to improve gradually," the FOMC said. "Pressures on inflation have stayed elevated, but longer-term inflation expectations remain well-contained."  

After a knee-jerk bump higher in Treasury yields, the bond market settled back down leaving the benchmark 10-year note modestly firmer in price with its yield around 3.92 percent.  

Meanwhile, the interest rate-sensitive two-year note was yielding 3.64 percent, seemingly unfazed by the idea that the federal funds rate will likely reach 3.5 percent in six weeks time.  

"The Fed is not giving any ground on the idea among many investors that a pause is around the corner," said Dominic Konstam, head of interest rate strategy at Credit Suisse First Boston in New York. "Even if they do decide to pause tightening policy in a couple of months, the Fed wants to maintain a restrictive face for the bond market."  

The fact that the next FOMC meeting isn't for another six weeks provides the market with some breathing room in case it's wrong over the economy and future Fed policy moves. But it's a very fine line.  

"There is no longer much of a margin for error," said Stephen Stanley, chief economist at RBS Greenwich Capital in Greenwich Conn. He noted that the current market forecasts for the year-end federal funds rate and Treasurys out to 10 years are all below 4 percent.  

Before the next FOMC meeting, plenty of data will be released, starting with the Institute for Supply Management's June manufacturing report Friday, and next week's June employment report that could either sustain or challenge the current bullish tone in Treasurys.  

Despite the current debate over the economy's growth prospects, fueled by high oil prices and moderating data, some investors believe things are much better than low Treasury yields imply.  

Economic factors "will ultimately prevail, and rates are likely to move meaningfully higher than they are today," said Colin Lundgren, head of institutional fixed-income at American Express Asset Management Group in Minneapolis with $100 billion in fixed-income assets under management. He expects rate hikes beyond the 3.75 percent level believed by the bond market.  
   RF7   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mntdbt : National Government Debt/Bond Markets | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagpf1apon | sel----- | catf | 1310   IPDFinancial/Business | Fed Bond Market | D8B25QPG0   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020050630e16u002bl  



 HDNA FIN ECO US Fed Statement     BYBy The Associated Press     WC271 words   PD30 June 2005   ET20:35   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2005.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.  
   LPThe Federal Open Market Committee statement Thursday raising a short-term interest rate to 3.25 percent:  

The committee believes that, even after this action, the stance of monetary policy remains accommodative and, coupled with robust underlying growth in productivity, is providing ongoing support to economic activity. Although energy prices have risen further, the expansion remains firm and labor market conditions continue to improve gradually. Pressures on inflation have stayed elevated, but longer-term inflation expectations remain well contained.  
   TDThe committee perceives that, with appropriate monetary policy action, the upside and downside risks to the attainment of both sustainable growth and price stability should be kept roughly equal. With underlying inflation expected to be contained, the committee believes that policy accommodation can be removed at a pace that is likely to be measured. Nonetheless, the committee will respond to changes in economic prospects as needed to fulfill its obligation to maintain price stability.  

Voting for the FOMC monetary policy action were: Alan Greenspan, chairman; Timothy F. Geithner, vice chairman; Susan S. Bies; Roger W. Ferguson, Jr.; Richard W. Fisher; Edward M. Gramlich; Donald L. Kohn; Michael H. Moskow; Mark W. Olson; Anthony M. Santomero; and Gary H. Stern.  

In a related action, the Board of Governors unanimously approved a 25-basis-point increase in the discount rate to 4-1/4 percent. In taking this action, the Board approved the requests submitted by the Boards of Directors of the Federal Reserve Banks of Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, Minneapolis, Kansas City, Dallas, and San Francisco.  
   RF7   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagpf1wcat | sel----- | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | NA FIN ECO US Fed Statement | D8B23MRO3   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020050630e16u001yi  



 HDFed Statement     BYBy The Associated Press     WC267 words   PD30 June 2005   ET20:29   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2005.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.  
   LPThe Federal Open Market Committee statement Thursday raising a short-term interest rate to 3.25 percent:  

The committee believes that, even after this action, the stance of monetary policy remains accommodative and, coupled with robust underlying growth in productivity, is providing ongoing support to economic activity. Although energy prices have risen further, the expansion remains firm and labor market conditions continue to improve gradually. Pressures on inflation have stayed elevated, but longer-term inflation expectations remain well contained.  
   TDThe committee perceives that, with appropriate monetary policy action, the upside and downside risks to the attainment of both sustainable growth and price stability should be kept roughly equal. With underlying inflation expected to be contained, the committee believes that policy accommodation can be removed at a pace that is likely to be measured. Nonetheless, the committee will respond to changes in economic prospects as needed to fulfill its obligation to maintain price stability.  

Voting for the FOMC monetary policy action were: Alan Greenspan, chairman; Timothy F. Geithner, vice chairman; Susan S. Bies; Roger W. Ferguson, Jr.; Richard W. Fisher; Edward M. Gramlich; Donald L. Kohn; Michael H. Moskow; Mark W. Olson; Anthony M. Santomero; and Gary H. Stern.  

In a related action, the Board of Governors unanimously approved a 25-basis-point increase in the discount rate to 4- 1/4 percent. In taking this action, the Board approved the requests submitted by the Boards of Directors of the Federal Reserve Banks of Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, Minneapolis, Kansas City, Dallas, and San Francisco.  
   RF7   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagpf1apon | sel----- | catf | 1310   IPDFinancial/Business | Fed Statement | D8B23K801   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020050630e16u001xv  



 HDFed raises interest rates for a ninth time     BYBy MARTIN CRUTSINGER     CRAP Economics Writer   WC501 words   PD30 June 2005   ET20:23   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2005.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.  
   LPWASHINGTON (AP) - The U.S. Federal Reserve, keeping a watchful eye on the impact of surging oil prices, raised a key interest rate by another quarter-point on Tuesday.  

The action pushed the federal funds rate up to 3.25 percent. It marked the ninth increase in the interest that banks charge each other on overnight loans and left this benchmark rate at its highest level since September 2001. When the Fed started its credit tightening campaign a year ago, the funds rate had been at a 46-year low of 1 percent.  
   TDIn its announcement of the decision, the Fed retained a pledge it has been making for the past year to move rates up "at a pace that is likely to be measured," a phrase that has been read by financial markets as signalling continued quarter-point moves in the future.  

The decision by Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan and his colleagues came as the economy is growing at a solid pace even though it is being buffeted by rising oil prices, which earlier this week hit a record high above $60 per barrel.  

The Fed's statement said even with the rise in energy prices, the economy has continued to grow at a respectable pace.  

"Although energy prices have risen further, the expansion remains firm and labor market conditions continue to improve gradually," the statement said.  

The government reported Wednesday that the overall economy grew at a healthy rate of 3.8 percent in the first three months of this year and many analysts believe growth in the current quarter will be only slighlty slower than that pace.  

The Fed said that pressures on inflation "have stayed elevated" but repeated a belief it has made in past statements that "longer-term inflation expectations remain well contained."  

That phrase is seen by markets as a signal that the Fed feels no need to accelerate its rate hikes.  

Greenspan, testifying to Congress recently, described the economy as staying on a "reasonably firm footing" with inflation under control.  

While consumer prices had jumped sharply in March and April, they actually declined for the first time in 10 months in May, reflecting a big plunge in energy prices.  

The continued good performance of inflation, outside of energy, has allowed the Fed to nudge rates higher in small steps. The Fed is moving rates up from the historic lows in effect during a time when the central bank was trying to jump-start the economy following the 2001 recession.  

The Fed's goal is to push the funds rate up to a neutral level where it is neither stimulating the economy nor holding back business growth. Many economists believe that calls for a funds level of around 4.25 percent, which could be reached by the end of the year if the Fed keeps boosting rates by a quarter-point at its August, September, November and December meetings.  
   RF5   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagpf1wcat | sel----- | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | NA FIN US Fed Interest Rates | D8B23H100   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020050630e16u001x8  



 HDFed raises interest rates for a ninth time     BYBy MARTIN CRUTSINGER     CRAP Economics Writer   WC846 words   PD30 June 2005   ET20:46   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2005.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.  
   LPWASHINGTON (AP) - The Federal Reserve, keeping a watchful eye on the impact of surging oil prices, raised a key interest rate by another quarter-point on Thursday.  

The action pushed the federal funds rate up to 3.25 percent. It marked the ninth increase in the interest that banks charge each other on overnight loans and left this benchmark rate at its highest level since August 2001. When the Fed started its credit tightening campaign a year ago, the funds rate had been at a 46-year low of 1 percent.  
   TDIn its announcement of the decision, the Fed retained a pledge it has been making for the past year to move rates up "at a pace that is likely to be measured," a phrase that has been read by financial markets as signaling continued quarter-point moves in the future.  

The decision by Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan and his colleagues came as the economy is growing at a solid pace even though it is being buffeted by rising oil prices, which earlier this week hit a record high above $60 per barrel.  

The Fed's statement said even with the rise in energy prices, the economy has continued to grow at a respectable pace.  

"Although energy prices have risen further, the expansion remains firm and labor market conditions continue to improve gradually," the statement said.  

Commercial banks were expected to follow the Fed's rate increase with a matching quarter-point boost in their prime lending rates.  

Private economists predicted that the Fed will raise rates again in August, given there was no sign in the statement that the central bank was about to pause in its credit-tightening efforts.  

"They are going to keep going," said David Jones, head of DMJ Advisors, an economic consulting firm. "There will be an August move because there is no hint at this meeting that they will pause."  

Wall Street, disappointed at the prospect of continued rate hikes, fell after the Fed announcement.  

The government reported Wednesday that the overall economy grew at a healthy rate of 3.8 percent in the first three months of this year and many analysts believe growth in the current quarter will be only slightly slower than that pace.  

The Fed said that pressures on inflation "have stayed elevated" but repeated a belief it has made in past statements that "longer-term inflation expectations remain well contained."  

That phrase is seen by markets as a signal that the Fed feels no need to accelerate its rate hikes.  

Greenspan, testifying to Congress recently, described the economy as staying on a "reasonably firm footing" with inflation under control.  

While consumer prices had jumped sharply in March and April, they actually declined for the first time in 10 months in May, reflecting a big plunge in energy prices.  

The continued good performance of inflation, outside of energy, has allowed the Fed to nudge rates higher in small steps. The Fed is moving rates up from the historic lows in effect during a time when the central bank was trying to jump-start the economy following the 2001 recession.  

The Fed's goal is to push the funds rate up to a neutral level where it is neither stimulating the economy nor holding back business growth. Many economists believe that calls for a funds level of around 4.25 percent, which could be reached by the end of the year if the Fed keeps boosting rates by a quarter-point at its August, September, November and December meetings.  

However, some analysts believe the Fed will pause at some point, possibly after the August increase, to assess how the rate hikes are affecting the economy.  

The Fed's short-term rate increases normally produce an increase in long-term rates, which are set by financial markets. However, that hasn't occurred during this cycle of increases. Treasury's benchmark 10-year bond was at 4.8 percent a year ago and now is around 4 percent.  

The decline in long-term rates has kept mortgage rates at historic lows this year and has been a major contributor in the red-hot housing market. Sales of both new and existing homes are expected to hit record highs for a fifth straight year.  

Some economists have begun to worry that a speculative bubble is developing in housing that will eventually burst like the stock market bubble did at the beginning of this decade. While Greenspan has talked about "froth" in local markets he has discounted concerns that a national housing bubble is developing.  

Many economists believe that mortgage rates should begin rising gradually as the Fed keeps pushing short-term rates higher. They are forecasting 30-year fixed-rate mortgages around 6.5 percent by the end of this year, up about 1 percentage point from current rates.  

The 30-year mortgage dropped to 5.53 percent this week, according to a Freddie Mac survey, the lowest level in more than a year.  
   RF7   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagpf1wcat | sel----- | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | NA FIN ECO US Fed Interest Rates | D8B23S8G0   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020050630e16u000yu  



 HDFed bumps interest rates higher, signals more increases in borrowing costs to come     BYBy JEANNINE AVERSA     CRAP Economics Writer   WC810 words   PD1 July 2005   ET00:34   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2005.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.  
   LPWASHINGTON (AP) - Federal Reserve policymakers raised a key interest rate Thursday, declaring the economy is on firm footing despite gyrating energy prices. The central bank signaled that borrowing costs would head even higher this year.  

Chairman Alan Greenspan and his colleagues boosted the federal funds rate by one-quarter of percentage point to 3.25 percent. It was the ninth such increase since the Fed began to tighten credit in June 2004 in an effort to keep inflation under control.  
   TDIn response, commercial banks began lifting their prime lending rates, which are used for many short-term consumer loans, by a corresponding amount to 6.25 percent. The increases left both the prime rate and the funds rate at the highest levels since August 2001.  

Wall Street investors, disappointed at the prospect of continued rate increases, sent stocks tumbling after the Federal Reserve announcement. The Dow Jones industrials lost 99.51 points to close at 10,274.97.  

The Fed repeated a pledge it has been making for the past year to move rates up "at a pace that is likely to be measured." To analysts that phrase translates into additional quarter-point increases at the Fed's next meeting, Aug. 9, and through much of this year.  

"The Fed is signaling it is full steam ahead for interest rate hikes," said Richard Yamarone, economist at Argus Research Corp. "The Fed would rather keep raising rates than end its campaign too soon."  

Some analysts, concerned that rising oil prices might weigh on economic activity, had wondered whether there might be a break in the rate-raising campaign in August or perhaps later this summer. The Fed, however, gave no indication of that.  

"Although energy prices have risen further, the expansion remains firm and labor market conditions continue to improve gradually," the policymakers said in a statement issued after its two-day meeting ended Thursday.  

Oil prices set a closing high of $60.54 a barrel on Monday but have retreated since.  

Even after its string of increases, the Federal Reserve indicated that rates still remain relatively low. In Fed parlance, that was stated as: "The stance of monetary policy remains accommodative."  

Stuart Hoffman, chief economist at PNC Financial Services Group, pointed to that phrase as another signal that rates were headed higher. "The Fed is on autopilot," Hoffman said. "I think the Fed gave a pretty crystal clear indication that they will keep on raising rates."  

From an economic point of view, high energy prices -- for now -- don't seem to be posing a threat to the economy that would change the monetary strategy, Hoffman said.  

At its previous meeting, May 3, Fed policymakers had said consumer and business spending had slowed somewhat, partly because of rising energy prices. They didn't make this observation in Thursday's statement. Instead, they said economic conditions remain firm despite the high energy prices.  

The economy grew at a solid rate of 3.8 percent in the first three months of this year. The unemployment rate dipped to a low 5.1 percent in May, though payroll growth slowed.  

On the inflation front, the Federal Reserve said price pressures have "stayed elevated" but repeated the belief that longer-term inflation expectations "remain well contained." Policymakers didn't mention, as they had in previous statements, that "pricing power is more evident," meaning it was easier for companies to raise prices.  

While consumer prices rose sharply in March and April, they actually fell in May.  

Some economists believed the Fed's comments Thursday on inflation and the economy were a bit more upbeat compared with the May meeting.  

Before the Fed embarked on its rate-raising campaign, the prime rate stood at 4 percent, the lowest level since 1958; the federal funds rate, the interest banks charge each other on overnight loans, was at 1 percent, a 46-year low.  

Extraordinarily low rates had once been needed to rescue the economy from the 2001 recession, the terror attacks and a wave of corporate scandals that had rocked Wall Street. But the Fed over the past year has been gradually reining in the easy credit, an approach aimed at preventing inflation from becoming a problem while keeping the economy growing.  

Some economists believe the funds rate could climb to as high as 4.25 percent by the end of this year. That would push the prime rate to 7.25 percent.  

Despite the Fed's rate increases thus far, long-term interest rates, including those for mortgages, have fallen, a phenomenon that Greenspan has said is puzzling. Rates on 30-year mortgages this week sank to 5.53 percent, the lowest level in more than a year.  

------  

On the Net:  

Federal Reserve:  http://www.federalreserve.gov/ 
   RF7   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagdsp | sel----- | catw   IPDAP National News | Washington | Fed Interest Rates | D8B276PG0   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020050630e16u000tb  



 HDU.S. rate hike seen as Fed begins two-day meeting     WC518 words   PD29 June 2005   ET20:05   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2005 Reuters Limited  
   LPWASHINGTON, June 29 (Reuters) - The U.S. Federal Reserve's interest-rate panel began a two-day meeting on Wednesday, which economists expect will culminate on Thursday with a ninth straight quarter-point increase in short-term rates as the Fed seeks to keep inflation in check.  

The Federal Open Market Committee's two-day meeting began at about 2:00 p.m. EDT (1800 GMT), a Fed official said. A decision on interest rates is expected on Thursday shortly after 2:15 p.m. EDT (1815 GMT).  
   TDWith another rate increase a near certainty, analysts will watch to see if the central bank will hint at future policy shifts through its post-meeting statement. Any change to the Fed's characterization of policy as accommodative or to predictions that it can continue to move at a "measured" pace will be seen as signaling a change in tactics.  

Most economists do not anticipate big alterations to the carefully couched statement although they are united in their expectations for a rate hike, according to a Reuters poll of major Wall Street dealers.  

Economists said policy-makers also were likely to use their extended meeting to ponder the puzzle of ultra-low long-term interest rates, which have helped stoke U.S. housing, and to consider what happens if and when the property market cools.  

The Fed's policy-setting committee holds eight meetings a year, two of which are two days long to allow officials to prepare for Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan's twice-annual economic testimony before Congress. The Fed chief is expected to return to Capitol Hill sometime in July to update the forecasts he presented to lawmakers in February.  

The federal funds rate -- the overnight rate at which banks lend to other banks -- is supposed to influence borrowing costs throughout the economy.  

But this relationship has come unstuck in the current cycle with long-term bond yields, which move in the opposite direction from prices, now lower than when the Fed began raising the benchmark rate from 1 percent 12 months ago.  

This poses a what Fed chief Alan Greenspan has termed a conundrum and could carry major risks to economic growth.  

One theory for why bond yields are so low is that growth is softening and the Fed is ready to halt its tightening although Greenspan has said this does not explain the full scale of the discrepancy.  

Officials go into the meeting armed with new figures showing the U.S. economy grew at a 3.8 percent rate in the first quarter, faster than initially thought, helped by feverish home building and stronger exports.  

The GDP report showed prices remained well-behaved. A gauge favored by Greenspan -- the personal consumption expenditures price index minus food and energy -- advanced at a 2 percent annual rate instead of 2.2 percent reported a month ago.  
   RFECONOMY-FED|LANGEN|ABX|BNX|AFA|CSA|LBY|RWSA|RWS|REULB|GNS|ABN|C|D|E|M|O|U|MTL|GRO|SOF|OIL|G|RBN|RNP|PGE   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe1102 : Money Supply | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | gvexe : Executive Branch | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCWASH | FED | CEN | MCE | INT | GVD | DBT   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument LBA0000020050629e16t001wk  



 HDTAKE A LOOK-Fed meets, 9th rate rise expected Thursday      WC296 words   PD29 June 2005   ET18:53   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2005 Reuters Limited   
   LPWASHINGTON, June 29 (Reuters) - The U.S. Federal Reserve is widely expected to raise interest rates on Thursday, a year to the day after it began its latest series of interest rate increases.   

Fed-watchers see the central bank lifting its target for the federal funds rate -- the rate U.S. banks charge each other for overnight lending -- for the ninth time by a quarter-percentage point to 3.25 percent. That would be up from 1 percent a year ago.   
   TDFollowing is a selection of Reuters stories on this week's two-day meeting of the Fed's policy-making Federal Open Market Committee: -------------------------------------------------------------- Fed rate rise seen, but few clues on more moves [ID:nN27207944]    


POLL-Fed seen raising rates 25 bps on June 30   [ID:nNAT001660]
One year on, yield puzzle obscures Fed hikes    [ID:nN28396236]
Fed warns on housing, though unlikely to act    [ID:nN28361664]
BIS says Fed may need faster hikes              [ID:nL26490754]
U.S. first-quarter economic growth revised up   [ID:nN29467488]
BACKGROUND
FACTBOX-One year of Fed rate rises              [ID:nN28404641]
FACTBOX-Factors Fed has to consider at meeting  [ID:nN28361810]
FACTBOX-U.S. Fed policy-makers' recent comments [ID:nN22537718]
FOMC's tentative meeting schedule for 2006      [ID:nN29452639]
FACTBOX-Global interest rates                      [ID:nGLOBAL]
TAKE A LOOK-Bubbles and froth in U.S. housing   [ID:nN20428079]
   

FINANCIAL MARKETS GLOBAL MARKETS-Oil drop supports shares, Fed eyed [ID:nL291326] Dlr at 10-mo high vs Swiss franc, Fed in focus [ID:nN29447738] Treasuries rise, GDP data shows benign inflation[ID:nN29371899] U.S. stocks little changed ahead of Fed decision[ID:nN29374619] --------------------------------------------------------------   
   RFECONOMY-FED (TAKEALOOK)|LANGEN|Table|G|RBN|ABN|E|U|D|M|MNI   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe1102 : Money Supply | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ntop : Dow Jones/Reuters Top Wire News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | mcpdbt : Corporate Debt/Bond Markets | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCFED | CEN | MCE | INT | GVD | DBT | MUNI | NEWS   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument LBA0000020050629e16t001rr  



 HDUPDATE 1-US mortgage applications dip despite rates fall-MBA     WC574 words   PD29 June 2005   ET12:59   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2005 Reuters Limited  
   LP(Adds data, details on adjustable-rate mortgages, 15-year mortgages, background, quote)  

NEW YORK, June 29 (Reuters) - Applications for U.S. home mortgages fell for the second week in a row despite a fall in the 30-year mortgage rate to a 15-month low, an industry group said on Wednesday.  
   TDThe Mortgage Bankers Association said both refinancing and purchasing mortgage activity dipped in the week ending June 24 after falling substantially in the preceding week.  

The MBA said its seasonally adjusted index of mortgage application activity decreased 1.1 percent to 778.4, adding to the previous week's 11.3 percent loss.  

The MBA's seasonally adjusted index of refinancing applications dropped 1.8 percent to 2529.2, after falling 13.2 percent the prior week.  

The MBA's purchase index, a gauge of loan requests for home purchases, fell 0.4 percent to 477.4, after dropping 9.4 percent the previous week.  

Fixed 30-year mortgage rates averaged 5.47 percent last week, excluding fees, down 16 basis points from 5.63 percent the previous week.  

"The 30-year fixed mortgage rate declined to its lowest point since March of 2004," Michael Cevarr, MBA's director of member surveys, said in a press release.  

The latest sustained decline in rates began last April after the 30-year mortgage rate hit 6.08 percent at the end of March, according to MBA figures.  

Interest rates also are much lower than a year ago. The fixed 30-year mortgage rate as of June 25, 2004 was 6.21 percent, according to MBA data.  

The MBA also said the average contract interest rate for 15-year fixed-rate mortgages fell 18 basis points last week to 5.06 percent from 5.24 percent a week earlier.  

Rates on one-year ARMs fell to 4.42 percent from 4.46 percent the prior week.  

Industry analysts and economists have said they expect home sales to edge off record 2004 levels as the Federal Reserve raises interest rates, but demand has not weakened significantly.  

The Fed's policy-making arm is meeting on Wednesday and Thursday. The overwhelming consensus among market participants is that the Fed will raise short-term interest rates by another 25 basis points to 3.25 percent at the conclusion of its meeting. The Fed has raised rates eight times since June 2004.  

ARM MORTGAGES DOWN  

Applications for adjustable-rate mortgages (ARMs) fell to 30 percent of total applications from 30.7 percent the previous week, the MBA said.  

The ARM share of applications is at its lowest level since April of 2004, Cevarr said.  

Refinancings also decreased as a percentage of all mortgage applications, at 45.4 percent of total applications, from 45.6 percent the previous week.  

Recent data on the U.S. housing sector showed that the market is vigorous, with home building and sales remaining at robust levels.  

The MBA's survey covers approximately 50 percent of all U.S. retail residential mortgage originations. It has been conducted weekly since 1990.  

Respondents include mortgage bankers, commercial banks and thrifts. [20050629 105951 GMT]  

- [20050629 113601 GMT]  
   RFECONOMY-MORTGAGES (UPDATE 1)|LANGEN|ABN|E|U|RBN|M|D|MNI|C|GRO|MTL|SOF|RNP|DNP|PCM|ECONOMY-MORTGAGES (UPDATE 1)|LANGEN|ABN|E|U|RBN|M|D|MNI|C|GRO|MTL|SOF|RNP|DNP|PCM|chained   INibcs : Business/Consumer Services   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1122 : Mortgage Applications/Refinancing | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ntop : Dow Jones/Reuters Top Wire News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCMTG | DBT | INT | MCE | ECI | FIN | AGN | NEWS   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument LBA0000020050629e16t000ym  



 HDHigher rates, US trade gap risks to world growth-UN       BYBy Mark Felsenthal       WC609 words   PD29 June 2005   ET05:53   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2005 Reuters Limited    
   LPUNITED NATIONS, June 29 (Reuters) - Rising interest rates and the yawning U.S. current account deficit pose risks to global economic growth, United Nations economic forecasters warned on Wednesday.  
   TDGlobal economic growth is expected to slow to 3 percent in 2005 from 4.1 percent in 2004, according to the latest report on world economic prospects from the U.N. Department of Economic and Social Affairs.    

But central banks that are raising interest rates to head off possible inflationary pressures may throttle back growth even further, said the report, entitled "World Economic Situation and Prospects 2005."    

The mid-year forecast was prepared to coincide with the annual ministerial session of the U.N. Economic and Social Council, beginning on Wednesday, which analyses trends in the world economy and their impact on global development goals.    

The new report said the U.S. current account gap, which ran at a record $195.1 billion, or 6.4 percent of gross domestic product, in the first quarter, could lead to shocks to national economies around the world if it grows to the point where investors lose their appetite for dollar-denominated debt.    

The weakening of the U.S. dollar is not enough to correct the current account gap, the broadest measure of U.S. trade with the rest of the world as it includes investment flows, the report said.    

A slowdown in economic growth is expected principally in developed countries.    

Developing nations, in contrast, are likely to post strong growth in 2005, largely on booming oil and commodity exports, the U.N. report said.    

POLICIES    

Developing economies are set to grow by 5 percent in 2005 and 2006.    

"All developing regions are performing well by their respective standards of the past few decades," the report said.    

China's economy is expected to grow at an annual rate of about 9 percent, driven by strong exports and high levels of investment.    

The United Nations forecast Africa's growth at more than 5 percent in 2005 as a result of oil exports and strong demand for other commodities.    

Higher oil prices have benefited many developing nations' economies, the report said. But it warned that rising fuel costs could harm growth elsewhere in the world and lower demand. Oil exporters should use a flood of revenues to protect their economies against swings in energy prices, the report recommended.    

Oil prices -- which climbed to a record high close to $61 a barrel on Monday -- rose by almost a third in 2004 on strong demand in spite of the rising costs.    

Finance ministers of major industrialised economies have cited climbing energy costs as a drag on economic expansion.    

The U.N. forecast developed nations' economic growth would moderate.    

Growth in western Europe is expected to slow to about 2 percent in 2005 from 2.2 percent in 2004. U.S. growth is forecast to ease to 3 percent in 2005 from 4.4 percent the previous year.    

While U.S. economic policy makers appear poised to continue a string of interest rate rises, the report said higher rates may slow growth further.    

"Accommodative macroeconomic policies should be maintained in most countries to prevent growth from weakening further," the report said.    

The U.S. Federal Reserve has raised short-term interest rates by eight quarter-percentage-point steps in a row since June of last year. The Fed is widely expected to raise rates again by another quarter point to 3.25 percent on Thursday.    
   RFECONOMY-WORLD-UN (EMBARGOED)|LANGEN|ABX|BNX|FUN|AFA|CSA|LBY|RWSA|RWS|REULB|GNS|RNA|SXNA   NSecat : Economic News | e1202 : Interest Rates | utdnat : United Nations | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument LBA0000020050629e16t0006w  



 SEPersonal Finance   HDManagers Fear  Interest-Rate  Rise --- Survey Cites an Increase As `Greatest Risk' to Stocks; Health, Tech Back in Vogue   BYBy Erin E. Arvedlund    WC594 words   PD29 June 2005   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGD2   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 2005, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LPWall Street portfolio managers are worried the Federal Reserve will raise interest rates too much and could stall the U.S. economy, according to a survey set to be released today.

Because of concerns over rising interest rates -- which ranked as the "greatest risk facing the stock market over the next year," above geopolitical worries, inflation and even increasing energy costs -- professional money managers remain bearish on real estate and bonds, although slightly less bearish on bonds this quarter.
   TDOther parts of the market falling out of favor include emerging and other international stocks, while health-care stocks, technology stocks and even cash are back in vogue.

The quarterly Investment Manager Outlook Poll, compiled by Russell Investment Group in Tacoma, Wash., polled 109 institutional money managers for their outlook on stocks, bonds and which sectors they feel most positive, or "bullish," and negative, or "bearish."

Investment managers remain bullish on U.S. large-capitalization growth stocks. Growth as a style is replacing market capitalization as the "perceived main driver of opportunity" in U.S. stocks, the survey says.

Russell notes the managers' conviction for growth stocks has been "consistently bullish" in the three months since the March survey was conducted. And despite the fact that growth stocks have underperformed value stocks since the June 2004 survey one year ago, the pros "remain convinced that before too long growth stocks will be the better performers of the two," the survey notes.

Separately, the pros are now more bullish on cash -- which generally benefits from rising short-term rates. Their reasoning: Although bond yields could rise, bond prices would then fall, effectively canceling out much of the yield gain. "Money market share values, however, should remain stable in spite of rate increases," the Russell survey notes.

"Investors are still bearish on bonds, but not as concerned as they were earlier in the year. Now they believe bonds are fairly valued," says Erik Ristuben, director of client investment strategies at Russell. "The Fed's activity is already priced in."

Bearishness decreased among managers polled for their views on bonds. Only 53% of portfolio managers are now bearish on Treasurys, down from 84% last quarter; 59% are negative on corporate bonds, down from 75% last quarter; and 58% are bears on high-yield debt, or so-called junk bonds, down 15 percentage points.

But professional investors still don't like real-estate investment trusts, with the percentage of bears growing to 56%, up three percentage points. International and emerging markets also are falling out of favor, with just 46% of managers bullish on non-U.S. domiciled equities, a huge step down from the 61% bulls last quarter.

Portfolio managers are still big believers in health care, in part because they're considered to be growth stocks in a climate of soaring medical costs: 75% of portfolio managers are bullish on health care, up from 65% last quarter. Support for technology stocks is second only to that of health care, with six in 10 managers ranked as bulls.

Portfolio managers are shying away from cyclical stocks, including material processing -- cement and chemical companies -- and producer durables -- electrical equipment, homebuilding and aerospace. Those two sectors have lost considerable support and are now among the least favored.

Interest-rate fears and the possibility of an economic slowdown have eroded support for cyclical stocks, the Russell survey notes. 

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | nsur : Survey/Poll | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ncat : Content Types | m11 : Equity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCFED | USG | FIN | NND | LMJ | PSF | PSJ   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument J000000020050629e16t00023  



 SETHE AMERICAS   HDLowdown on long-term  interest rate  conundrum: Low US rates may mean the Fed has to raise the Fed Funds rate further than it would otherwise, writes Andrew Balls.   BYBy ANDREW BALLS    WC941 words   PD29 June 2005   SNFinancial Times   SCFTFT   EDLondon Ed1   PGPage 8   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2005 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPAlan Greenspan has built a reputation based on his confident leadership of the Federal Reserve and ongetting the big calls right. In 18 years, it is not often that he said he had no clue what was going on.

Yet that, in essence, is what the Fed chairman has said about the drop in long-term interest rates over the past year. While the Fed has raised its target Federal Funds rates by 2 percentage points to 3 per cent, the 10-year Treasury yield has dropped 0.8 percentage points to about 3.9 per cent.
   TDEarlier this year, Mr Greenspan described the low level of long-term interest rates as a "conundrum" but strongly hinted that he expected long-term rates to rise. More recently, he expressed puzzlement and said this odd pattern might continue.

The Federal Open Market Committee is expected to increase the Fed Funds rate by another quarter point tomorrow. The implication of the drop in long-term rates is one of the most important determinants of how much further its tightening campaign has to go.

Paul McCulley, Fed-watcher at Pimco, the giant bond fund, is a leading advocate of the view that the flattening of the yield curve foreshadows an imminent economic slowdown, meaning the Fed will soon stop raising rates. He singles out weakening manufacturing, and the drag on growth from the trade deficit.

Standard estimates of the so-called "neutral" Federal Funds rate, at which monetary policy neither stimulates nor restricts the economy, centre on about 4 1/4 per cent. Mr McCulley argues long-term averages reflect the history of a central bank fighting inflation. Now the Fed is happy that price stability has been achieved, he estimates the neutral rate is 3-3 1/2 per cent.

"There is no conundrum in the flat yield curve if one accepts a proper definition of the neutral real short rate, which is much lower than the popular long-term averages that are tossed about," he says.

The minutes of the Fed's meeting last month show that a few committee members wondered aloud if their rate increases to date would lead to a pronounced slowdown. But the majority view supports a relatively upbeat economic outlook and the notion that the Fed has quite a bit more work to do.

At the start of the year, the committee's consensus forecast was for growth above trend this year, and close to the economy's potential in 2006. There are unlikely to be large changes in these forecasts, in spite of the high oil price. The FOMC has long said that inflation should remain contained, as long as it continues to tighten policy.

The Fed has good explanations for why long-term rates are low, including the fact that investors are prepared to accept a lower risk premium for holding longer dated securities, reflecting confidence the FOMC will keep inflation under control. High savings outside the US, relative to investment opportunities, help to explain the global pattern of low long-term rates. But these do little to explain the drop in long-term rates over the past year.

While Mr Greenspan has said the flattening yield curve may signal market expectations that growth is about to slow sharply, he has played down the possibility. More sophisticated financial markets mean the yield curve is seen as a less reliable indicator than in the past. Thus, the Fed chairman has said that further flattening of the yield curve would not deter the central bank from continuing to raise the Fed Funds rate.

"You either have the courage of your conviction in the bond market or you have the courage of your conviction in your forecast," says Adam Posen, a central banking expert at the Institute for International Economics in Washington. "If they still believe their forecasts, they will keep going."

In the past, a flattening or inverted yield curve has tended to precede sharp slowdowns in growth precisely because the Fed was trying to prompt a slowdown to reduce high inflation.

Bill Dudley, chief economist at Goldman Sachs, says since bond yields have fallen because investors are prepared to accept a lower term premium, this should be seen as stimulating growth. The Goldman Sachs financial conditions index suggests overall conditions are slightly easier than a year ago.

Low long-term rates may mean the Fed has to raise the Federal Funds rate further than it would otherwise to offset low long-term rates and check inflation. A number of Fed policymakers have encouraged such thinking, noting concern about the booming housing market - from low long-term rates.

Laurence Ball, professor at Johns Hopkins University, says: "Short-term interest rates matter for the economy and long-term interest rates matter. The Fed has done some contractionary things, but the fall in long-term interest rates is expansionary. It means the Fed needs to redouble its efforts."

Futures markets point to expectations of a 3.75 Federal Funds rate at year-end. The longer the Fed sticks to its forecast that policy remains accommodative, and signals it expects to continue raising rates, the greater the chance that longer term rates gradually rise.

"For now, there is little harm in their continuing to put one foot in front of the other," Mr Posen says. "They have a huge advantage in their demonstrated ability to reverse course quickly and aggressively if they have to." 
   RF20050629L108.061   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTFT000020050629e16t0001k  



 HDFT.com site : Market Insight: Wall St braces for Fed's rate decision.   BYJon Boone    WC611 words   PD29 June 2005   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2005 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPWall Street is bracing for the 105-minute thrill ride of the summer. I refer not to the latest Hollywood blockbuster but to Thursday's interest-rate decision by the US Federal Reserve.

The fact that the Fed's decision coincides with the end of the second quarter could lead to volatility, particularly in strong sectors like energy and laggards in the tech and auto industries. US money managers have less than two hours to react and make their portfolios presentable.
   TDJack Caffrey, equity strategist at JP Morgan Private Client Service, says: "The last hour and forty-five minutes will be frantic in terms of trying to reposition portfolios on the back of the news from the Fed."

And then there is the window-dressing. Fund managers are loath to admit it, but many try to put the best gloss on their strategies before they have to reveal their end-of-quarter holdings. No one wants to look underweight in an area that has done well, so they are likely to buy top performers and dump poor stocks.

Analysts say energy stocks would be one target for window-dressers who are underweight on the sector and want to flatter their portfolio.

Mr Caffrey says: "It has been a very frustrating year for everyone, and the market hasn't made particular progress. When things are so close to break-even, you can expect people to take whatever opportunity for real gain to scrabble ahead."

So far this year, the best performer has been energy, up 19.4 per cent as of midday Wednesday, paced by Valero Energy and Unocal, up 74 per cent and 51 per cent respectively. Carmakers have lagged. Losers include eBay, off 43 per cent, and JDS Uniphase, down 51 per cent.

Jim Paulsen, chief investment strategist at Wells Capital Management, said the window-dressing effect would be fleeting. "It has an impact on the day but is then reversed in the first week of the next quarter anyway."

Another influence, says Philip Roth, equity strategist at Miller Tabak, is re-indexing. As companies grow or contract, they may move into or out of indices such as the Russell 2000 of smaller companies. This will force indexed funds to dump or buy stock in those companies. The effect is short-lived.

"It's more of a media event. There's no analytical value," he says. "Even if it does have an effect it will be one day only, and then we'll all go back to worrying about the economy, oil prices and interest rates."

Interest ratesare never far from investors' thoughts.

"It can be like taking a long drive with a group of children," says Mr Caffrey. "You get the constant 'Are we there yet?' They're waiting for when the Fed stops raising rates and the latest news headline."

Investors will be focusing as much on Mr Greenspan's tone as on his decision. "I don't get into the Fed guessing game. But I will say I have never seen such a difference of opinion on interest rates," says Mr Roth. "There are some who say the Fed has tightened enough, some who say it won't be the last, and others who say it will ease by the end of the year."

As with every summer blockbuster, memories of chaos and destruction fade as punters look forward to the next epic.

As Mr Paulsen puts it, "The bigger impact could come the following day, with a report from the Institute for Supply Management completely washing away whatever Greenspan says." 
   RF43168469   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | m11 : Equity Markets | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTCOM00020050630e16t0001r  
 Page 1 of 1      2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.


 

 Page 1      2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.

