 


 HDFT.com site : Dollar hits peak ahead of expected rate hike.   BYDarryl Thomson    WC745 words   PD1 November 2005   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2005 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPThe dollar hit a frsh two-year high against the yen at Y116.75 ahead of an expected quarter point interest rate rise by the US Federal Reserve later on Tuesday.

The Fed is seen raising interest rates for a 12th consecutive month to 4 per cent. Economists are now seeing the rate cycle peak at 4.5 per cent or even 5 per cent next year following the recent flood of hawkish comments from Fed officials on containing inflation.
   TDInvestors will pore over the statement accompanying the decision for any change of tone which could indicate the extent of monetary tightening to come.

Underscoring the expectation the Fed will continue on its path of "measured" increases were figures on Monday showing higher than expected Chicago business sentiment in October and a pick-up in the Fed's preferred measure of inflation.

Prior to the Fed decision, the Institute for Supply Management's October purchasing manager's index of national manufacturing activity is due for release at 1500 GMT. A dip to 57.0 is forecast from 59.4.

The yen has suffered from Japanese investors' easing risk aversion. Signs of sustained economic recovery has meant more confident investors are buying foreign assets. The Bank of Japan may be moving toward dumping its ultra easy monetary policy but no move away from near zero interest rates is expected for some months. This means the yield remains much better overseas.

The dollar rose 0.2 per cent to Y116.63 against the yen, but eased 0.2 per cent to $1.2001 versus the single currency, failing to sustain its breach of the $1.20 into a second session.

Two factors weighed on the euro. Firstly, not one of the 42 economists surveyed by Bloomberg expect the European Central Bank to raise rates on Thursday. A move up from the 2 per cent held for more than two years is however a 60 per cent possibility according to UBS come December.

Secondly, strife within the Social Democrats in Germany has led to increasing worries the new coalition government in the eurozone's biggest economy may be unstable. Franz Munterfering, chairman, resigned on Monday, having been opposed for SPD general secretary. The party is in the midst of talks on forming a government with Angela Merkel's conservatives.

But there was some positive news on the eurozone economy. The latest manufacturing PMI survey rose to 52.7 in October from 51.7 in the previous month, slightly ahead of expectations of 52.5.

The euro gained 0.4 per cent to Y139.424 against the Japanese currency and 0.3 per cent on the pound at GBP0.6784.

In the UK, the property market continued to show signs that the interest rate cut by the Bank of England back in August has been enough to trigger a modest revival in house prices. The Nationwide building society's latest survey of house prices showed them ticking up by 1.3 per cent in October from September and 3.3 per cent year-on-year. Analysts were forecasts a more modest 0.2 per cent and 2.1 per cent respectively. This data echoes other surveys, in particular the BoE's credit data on Monday, which showed mortgage lending in September hitting a five-month high.

UK's PMI manufacturing data, also released today, was also above expectations at 51.7 in October from 51.5 in the previous month. Economists were expecting a drop to 51.0.

With the likelihood of another interest rate cut while high oil prices are putting pressure on inflation further receding, both the housing and the PMI data temporarily boosted sterling. But from its overnight level it remained 0.1 per cent weaker against the dollar at $1.7687.

The Indonesia rupiah bounced off its lowest level in more than two weeks after Bank Indonesia raised interest rates by 1.25 percentage points. The rise to 12.25 per cent was in response a sharp rise in consumer price inflation to 17.9 per cent, the highest level since June 1999. Inflation has burgeoned thanks to a 126 per cent increase in fuel prices to cut the cost of subsidies. The rupiah had hit Rp10,190, down 0.7 per cent, but rallied to Rp10,095 against the dollar, as the markets had expected a 100 basis point rise. 
   RF45331150   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | i831 : Financial Investments | ibnk : Banking/Credit | iinv : Investing/Securities   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTCOM00020051102e1b10000m  



 HDFT.com site : Bond investors awaitFed rate decision.   BYIvar Simensen    WC326 words   PD1 November 2005   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2005 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPEurozone government bond prices edged higher, sending yields off their recent highs on Tuesday, but trading was thin ahead of the US Federal Reserve's interest rate decision later in the day.

The yield on the 10-year German bund dropped 1.5 basis points to 3.385 per cent, coming off last Friday's six-month high of 3.419 per cent. The two-year German Schatz yield was little changed at 2.615 per cent.
   TDThe moves put and end to the recent sell-off in government bonds. Bund yields have risen sharply in the past two months, as investors have started to price in the first interest rate hikes for more than two years amid signs that economic growth in the eurozone is picking up.

The 10-year yield has risen from 3 per cent at the end of September and the Schatz yield traded as low as 2.1 per cent two months ago.

The European Central Bank is expected to keep interest rates unchanged at 2 per cent on Thursday, but many market participants expect a hike before the end of the year.

Trading activity was also low due to a public holiday across much of Europe.

The main focus in the market was on the forthcoming interest rate decision in the US. The Fed is widely expected to raise rates by 25basis points to 4 per cent and the key area of interest will be on the accompanying statement.

"With the Fed gradually approaching neutral rates the likelihood of a change to the sentence referring to `accommodative` rates and `measured pace` is growing," said BNP Paribas' fixed income strategists in a note to clients. However, it added that the sentence was unlikely to be changed today.

"The Fed will be reluctant to commit before seeing the impact of falling energy prices in the October inflation data," the analysts said. 
   RF45332765   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | i831 : Financial Investments | ibnk : Banking/Credit | iinv : Investing/Securities   NSm12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mntdbt : National Government Debt/Bond Markets | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REgfr : Germany | usa : United States | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTCOM00020051102e1b10000p  



 HDFT.com site : European bourses poised for lower open.   BYNeil Dennis    WC316 words   PD2 November 2005   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2005 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPEuropean stocks were expected to open lower on Wednesday as investors tread cautiously following the US Federal Reserve's interest rate increase and ahead of the European Cetral Bank's decision.

Spread betters were expecting the three main European indices - the FTSE 100 in London, Frankfurt's Xetra Dax and the CAC 40 in Paris - to open around 10 points lower.
   TDIn the US overnight, the Fed voted unanimously to raise interest rates by another quarter of a percentage point to 4 per cent. Although this was widely expected, the accompanying statement was upbeat about growth and cautious about inflation, leading the market to price in further rate rises at the next two open market committee meetings.

Wall Street was little moved, and investors consolidated recent gains, leaving the main stock indicators slightly lower. The Dow Jones Indutrial Average eased 0.3 per cent to 10,406.77, while the Nasdaq Composite slipped 0.3 per cent to 2,114.05.

Back in Europe, and investors were awaiting their own interest rate decision, but in the meantime had corporate earnings to consider.

Credit Suisse, the international financial services group, reported a better-than-expected 42 per cent rise in third-quarter net profit thanks to strength at both its investment and private banking arms.

Chief executive Oswald Gruebel issued a statement saying the result was "satisfactory", and the group "benefited from increased client activity and active market environment". The company however, declined to give guidance on the fourth quarter and full year.

Swiss Re, the re-insurer, said that it would not meet its 10 per cent earnings growth target this year as claims from the US hurricanes totaled around $750m. The company said that it would use equalisation reserves to "mitigate part of the claims caused by this year's extraordinary hurricane season". 
   RF45348505   INi81401 : Central Banking | i831 : Financial Investments | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | iinv : Investing/Securities   NSm11 : Equity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REeurz : Europe | fra : France | gfr : Germany | usa : United States | eecz : European Union Countries | medz : Mediterranean | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTCOM00020051103e1b200007  



 HDFT.com site : Dollar hits peak ahead of expected rate hike.   BYDarryl Thomson    WC714 words   PD1 November 2005   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2005 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPThe dollar hit a fresh two-year high against the yen at Y116.78 ahead of an expected quarter-point interest rate rise by the US Federal Reserve.

The greenback was buoyed by "solid" manufacturing data. The Institute of Supply Management's manufacturing index eased to 59.1 in October from 59.4, but a fall to 57.2 had been forecast.
   TDThe Fed is seen raising interest rates for a 12th consecutive month to 4 per cent. Economists now expect the rate cycle to peak at 4.5 per cent or even 5 per cent next year following a flood of hawkish Fed comments on containing inflation.

Investors will pore over the statement accompanying the decision for any change of tone which could indicate the extent of monetary tightening to come.

"Rising US rates alone will not guarantee further broad based appreciation in the dollar, especially if yield appetite declines and/or risk aversion climbs markedly," Monica Fan of RBC Capital Markets suggested. "But the real impact of widening US--Japanese interest rate differentials on currency hedging will not dissipate soon and we expect dollar/yen to stay propped up above Y110.0 in the short-term."

In Japan, signs of a sustained economic recovery have encouraged investors to buy foreign assets.

The Bank of Japan may be moving toward dumping its ultra easy monetary policy but no move away from near zero interest rates is expected for some months.

"The market is frustrated that the economic recovery has not been reflected by inflation," Chris Towner of risk consultants HIFX said.

Japan's finance minister Sadakazu Tanigaki said on Tuesday "mild deflation remains and we need to continue making efforts to overcome it".

A sustained move away from deflation is key to a BOJ policy move.

The dollar rose 0.2 per cent to Y116.60 against the yen, but eased 0.1 per cent to $1.1994 versus the single currency.

Two factors weighed on the euro. First, the European Central Bank is not expected to raise rates until December at the earliest.

Second, strife within the Social Democrats in Germany caused by the resignation of Franz Munterfering, SPD chairman, on Monday, has led to increasing worries the new coalition government in the eurozone's biggest economy may become unstable.

"Coalition talks were due to end by 12 November and Munterfering's announcement could potentially lead to a breakdown in coalition talks with an outside chance of new elections needed to form a government," said Paul Mackel of ABN Amro.

But on the positive side the latest eurozone manufacturing PMI survey rose to 52.7 in October from 51.7 in the previous month, slightly ahead of expectations of 52.5.

The $1.20 level was seen as pivotal with a prop for the euro being "concern longer-term market participants will again take advantage of euro/dollar levels around $1.19 to unload surplus dollars", said Daniel Katzive of UBS.

The euro gained 0.3 per cent to Y139.89 against the Japanese currency and 0.6 per cent on the pound to GBP0.6803.

Improvement in the UK property market and better-than-expected PMI manufacturing data failed to support sterling.

"We've reached neutrality (in terms of monetary policy) in the UK. There is no promise of higher yield, but there is the promise in the US and eurozone," Mr Towner of HIFX said.

Howard Archer of Global Insight felt UK interest rates would fall further in the early months of 2006. The pound fell 0.5 per cent to $1.7619 against the greenback.

The Indonesia rupiah climbed 1 per cent to Rp10,015 against the dollar after Bank Indonesia raised interest rates by 1.25 percentage points to 12.25 per cent. A 100 basis point move had been expected.

The Reserve Bank of Australia met on Tuesday and the unanimous expectation it will hold rates at 5.5 per cent [decision to be announced at 2330 GMT] weighed on the Aussie. It fell 0.3 per cent to $0.7746 against its US namesake as the expected rate hike by the Fed will further narrow the yield advantage of the Australian currency. 
   RF45337006   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | i831 : Financial Investments | ibnk : Banking/Credit | iinv : Investing/Securities   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTCOM00020051102e1b10001m  



 HDFT.com site : Dollar stays near two-year high after Fed.   BYDarryl Thomson    WC651 words   PD1 November 2005   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2005 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPThe dollar held within a whisker of a fresh two-year high of Y116.78 against the yen after Tuesday's widely expected quarter-point interest rate rise by the US Federal Reserve.The greenback was also buoyed by "solid" manufacturing data. The Institute of Supply Management's manufacturing index eased to 59.1 in October from 59.4, but a fall to 57.2 had been forecast.As expected, the Fed raised interest rates for a 12th consecutive month to 4 per cent.
   TDEconomists now expect the rate cycle to peak at 4.5 per cent or even 5 per cent next year following a flood of hawkish Fed comments on containing inflation.The accompanying statement repeated the mantra that policy accommodation can be removed at a pace that is likely to be "measured", and that underlying inflation was still "contained"."Rising US rates alone will not guarantee further broad based appreciation in the dollar, especially if yield appetite declines and/or risk aversion climbs markedly," Monica Fan of RBC Capital Markets suggested. "But the real impact of widening US--Japanese interest rate differentials on currency hedging will not dissipate soon and we expect dollar/yen to stay propped up above Y110.0 in the short-term."In Japan, signs of a sustained economic recovery have encouraged investors to buy foreign assets.The Bank of Japan may be moving toward dumping its ultra easy monetary policy but no move away from near zero interest rates is expected for some months. "The market is frustrated that the economic recovery has not been reflected by inflation," Chris Towner of risk consultants HIFX said.Japan's finance minister Sadakazu Tanigaki said on Tuesday "mild deflation remains and we need to continue making efforts to overcome it".A sustained move away from deflation is key to a BOJ policy move.The dollar rose 0.2 per cent to Y116.60 against the yen, but eased 0.1 per cent to $1.1994 versus the single currency.Two factors weighed on the euro. First, the European Central Bank is not expected to raise rates until December at the earliest.Second, strife within the Social Democrats in Germany caused by the resignation of Franz Munterfering, SPD chairman, on Monday, has led to increasing worries the new coalition government in the eurozone's biggest economy may become unstable. "Coalition talks were due to end by 12 November and Munterfering's announcement could potentially lead to a breakdown in coalition talks with an outside chance of new elections needed to form a government," said Paul Mackel of ABN Amro.But on the positive side the latest eurozone manufacturing PMI survey rose to 52.7 in October slightly ahead of expectations.The $1.20 level was seen as pivotal with a prop for the euro being "concern longer-term market participants will again take advantage of euro/dollar levels around $1.19 to unload surplus dollars", said Daniel Katzive of UBS.The euro gained 0.3 per cent to Y139.89 against the Japanese currency and 0.6 per cent on the pound to GBP0.6803.Improvement in the UK property market and better-than-expected PMI manufacturing data failed to support sterling."We've reached neutrality (in terms of monetary policy) in the UK. There is no promise of higher yield, but there is the promise in the US and eurozone," Mr Towner of HIFX said. Howard Archer of Global Insight felt UK interest rates would fall further in the early months of 2006. The pound fell 0.5 per cent to $1.7619 against the greenback. The Indonesia rupiah climbed 1 per cent to Rp10,015 against the dollar after Bank Indonesia raised interest rates by 1.25 percentage points to 12.25 per cent. A 100 basis point move had been expected. 
   RF45337933   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | i831 : Financial Investments | ireest : Real Estate | ibnk : Banking/Credit | icre : Construction/Real Estate | iinv : Investing/Securities   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1101 : Economic Growth | e1103 : Inflation/Prices | e1202 : Interest Rates | e51 : Trade/External Payments | ecat : Economic News | gdip : International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REgfr : Germany | indon : Indonesia | jap : Japan | uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | asiaz : Asia | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | seasiaz : Southeast Asia | weurz : Western Europe   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTCOM00020051102e1b10002l  



 HDFT.com site : Dollar stays near two-year high after Fed.   BYDarryl Thomson in London and Steve Johnson in New York    WC667 words   PD1 November 2005   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2005 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPThe dollar held within a whisker of a fresh two-year high of Y116.78 against the yen after Tuesday's widely expected interest rate rise by the US Federal Reserve.The greenback was also buoyed by solid manufacturing data. The Institute of Supply Management's manufacturing index eased to 59.1 in October from 59.4, but a fall to 57.2 had been forecast.The Fed voted unanimously to raise interest rates for a 12th consecutive time to 4 per cent. Economists expect the rate cycle to peak at 4.5 or even 5 per cent next year following a flood of hawkish comments on containing inflation.The statement repeated that policy accommodation can be removed at a "measured" pace.
   TDWhile rising energy costs "have the potential to add to inflation pressures" the committee added that underlying inflation was still "contained".After the Fed decision, the dollar was 0.3 per cent higher on the day at Y116.70 against the yen, but had eased 0.1 per cent to $1.1997 versus the single currency.Unless steered otherwise by Fed-speak, it seems sensible to expect further 25-basis point tightening moves at upcoming meetings," said Joshua Shapiro, chief US economist at MFR. Monica Fan of RBC Capital Markets argued that "rising US rates alone will not guarantee further broad based appreciation in the dollar, especially if yield appetite declines and/or risk aversion climbs markedly".But she added that the real impact of widening US--Japanese interest rate differentials on currency hedging will not dissipate soon and we expect dollar/yen to stay propped up above Y110.0 in the short-term."In Japan, signs of a sustained economic recovery encouraged investors to buy foreign assets. The Bank of Japan may be moving to dumping its ultra easy monetary policy but no move away from near-zero interest rates is expected for months.Japan's finance minister Sadakazu Tanigaki said on Tuesday that "mild deflation remains and we need to continue making efforts to overcome it". A sustained move away from deflation is key to a BOJ policy move.Two factors weighed on the euro. First, the European Central Bank is not expected to raise rates until December at the earliest.Second, strife within the Social Democrats in Germany caused by the resignation of Franz Munterfering, SPD chairman, on Monday, has led to growing fears the new coalition government in the eurozone's biggest economy may become unstable. "Coalition talks were due to end by 12 November and Munterfering's announcement could potentially lead to a breakdown in coalition talks with an outside chance of new elections needed to form a government," said Paul Mackel of ABN Amro.But on the positive side the latest eurozone manufacturing PMI survey rose to 52.7 in October slightly ahead of expectations.The $1.20 level is pivotal, with "concern longer-term market participants will again take advantage of euro/dollar levels around $1.19 to unload surplus dollars" propping up the euro, said Daniel Katzive of UBS.The euro gained 0.3 per cent to Y139.89 to the Japanese currency and 0.6 per cent on the pound to GBP0.6803.Improvement in the UK property market and better-than-expected PMI manufacturing data failed to support sterling."We've reached neutrality (in terms of monetary policy) in the UK. There is no promise of higher yield, but there is the promise in the US and eurozone," Mr Towner of HIFX said.Howard Archer of Global Insight felt UK interest rates would fall again in the early months of 2006. The pound fell 0.5 per cent to $1.7619 against the greenback. The Indonesia rupiah rose 1 per cent to Rp10,015 against the dollar after Bank Indonesia raised interest rates by 1.25 percentage points to 12.25 per cent. 
   RF45338900   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | i831 : Financial Investments | ireest : Real Estate | ibnk : Banking/Credit | icre : Construction/Real Estate | iinv : Investing/Securities   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1101 : Economic Growth | e1103 : Inflation/Prices | e1202 : Interest Rates | e51 : Trade/External Payments | ecat : Economic News | gdip : International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REgfr : Germany | indon : Indonesia | jap : Japan | uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | asiaz : Asia | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | seasiaz : Southeast Asia | weurz : Western Europe   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTCOM00020051102e1b10002z  



 HDFT.com site : Fed move spurs dollar gains.   BYChris Flood    WC433 words   PD2 November 2005   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2005 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPThe dollar strengthened to a fresh two-year high against the yen, trading around Y116.90 by mid-morning during the European session after the Federal Reserve raised interest rates to 4 per cent, as widely expected.

Dealers said if the dollar could sustain its break above Y116.85, there was little to offer resistance before the Y117.70. level.
   TDThe language of the Fed's accompanying statement was broadly unchanged from previous meetings and there was nothing to indicate that US interest rates will not rise further before the end of the year.

The dollar's move against the yen was more pronounced than against other major currencies.

Traders reported that the dollar showed a brief bout of volatility against the euro and sterling following the announcement on Tuesday but was unable to mount any sustained move. Sterling traded at $1.7650, little changed overnight.

"The muted reaction was noteworthy, underscoring the degree to which the market had anticipated both the 25 basis points hike as well as the continued hawkish language of the accompanying policy statement," said Michael Woolfolk of the Bank of New York.

The market is now looking to the US employment figures on Friday for further guidance with a positive non-farm payrolls report expected to help the dollar to challenge the $1.19 resistance level against the euro. The dollar was flat against the euro at $1.2016.

Interest rate spreads between currencies continue to dominate foreign exchange trading. Further increases in US rates are already priced into the market and while a shift from both the European Central Bank and the Bank of Japan is expected, it does not appear imminent.

"The outlook for rates is driving the other major currencies," said Chris Gothard and Brown Brothers Harriman: "The growing sense that the ECB may be moving towards a rate hike has spurred the euro, while the realization that it will be some time before Japan risks a rate hike means the yen is getting a pasting."

The euro traded at Y140.50 against the yen.

The ECB is due to announce its latest decision on interest rates on Thursday and while no change is expected, attention will focus on the press conference to see if a rate hike appears more likely before the end of the year.

The euro tested Monday's low at GBP0.6765 overnight in Asia but subsequently bounced back to trade around GBP0.6807. Traders said a sustained break above GBP0.6825 would attract buyers looking to retest GBP0.6900. 
   RF45350407   INi81401 : Central Banking | i831 : Financial Investments | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | iinv : Investing/Securities   NSe52 : Euro Zone/Currency | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTCOM00020051103e1b20000t  



 HDFT.com site : Market Overview: Nikkei makes centre-stage cameo as investors hold breath for Fed.   BYDave Shellock    WC590 words   PD1 November 2005   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2005 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPUS and European equity markets started the month on a subdued note as investors took a breather after the previous day's gains and awaited a decision on interest rates from the Federal Reserve.

The US central bank was almost unanimously expected to announce a 12th consecutive quarter point rate rise to 4 per cent. The focus, as usual, will be on the accompanying statement.
   TD"Rhetoric from Fed officials has remained hawkish, with clear concern regarding the outlook for inflation in an environment of firm growth and high energy prices," said James Knightley, economist at ING Financial Markets.

He added that comments from individual members of the central bank had indicated they were seeing growing evidence of companies passing on higher energy and commodity costs to customers.

"This message is likely to be emphasised in the statement that accompanies the Fed's decision, along with a comment that suggests it remains upbeat on economic prospects, given labour market resilience and the stimulus from rebuilding following recent hurricanes," Mr Knightley said.

The rate expectations were reinforced by stronger-than-forecast US manufacturing data. The Institute for Supply Management (ISM) index edged back to 59.1 in October from the previous month's 59.4, against expectations of a decline to 57.3.

The prices-paid component of the index, meanwhile, reached the highest level seen since May 2004, adding to concerns about inflation.

By midday in New York, the Dow Jones Industrial Average was down 0.1 per cent, while the S&P 500 was 0.3 per cent lower.

The technology-heavy Nasdaq Composite index was also down 0.3 per cent following disappointing third-quarter sales figures from computer maker Dell.

European stocks managed to edge higher but there was air of tiredness in the markets following Monday's wave of merger and acquisition activity. The FTSE Eurofirst 300 index rose 0.1 per cent to 1,201.29.

In Asia, Tokyo hit fresh highs in spite of a systems failure which allowed only 90 minutes of trading. The Nikkei 225 Average rose 1.9 per cent to a 4l-year high, while the broader Topix index climbed 2 per cent to a fresh five-year peak.

The rest of the region was broadly higher, with Seoul jumping 2.7 per cent, Hong Kong gaining 1.3 per cent and Bangkok 1.6 per cent higher.

The dollar hit a fresh two-year high against the yen in the wake of the ISM data as investors continued to focus on interest rate differentials between the US and Japan.

Few in the markets expect any rise in Japanese rates in the foreseeable future.

The euro, meanwhile, had a steadier session after sliding nearly 1 per cent against the dollar on Monday, although a strong reading on the eurozone purchasing managers' index did little to persuade investors that the European Central Bank would raise rates this week.

Jens Nordvig, global markets economist at Goldman Sachs, said it was still "early days" for the recovery in the eurozone and that there was no immediate urgency for the ECB to tighten.

Oil prices continued to retreat, with benchmark West Texas Intermediate for December delivery stuck firmly below the $60 a barrel mark.

Barclays Capital said prices were being undermined by forecasts of warmer-than-expected weather in the US north-east, despite the fact that the winter heating season was barely underway yet. 
   RF45337009   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSm11 : Equity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTCOM00020051102e1b10001p  



 HDFT.com site : Market Overview: Fed rate rise has little impact on markets.   BYDave Shellock    WC594 words   PD1 November 2005   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2005 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPA widely-expected rise in US interest rates yesterday had little initial impact on Wall Street as investors scrutinised the Federal Reserve's accompanying statement.

The US central bank voted unanimously to raise its target funds rate from 3.75 per cent to 4 per cent, the twelfth consecutive quarter-point increase, and made only minor changes to its statement.
   TDThe Fed's open market committee once again concluded that its monetary policy stance remains accommodative - indicating that further rate rises were needed - and that this "accommodation" could be removed "at a pace that is likely to be measured."

The expectations of higher rates were reinforced by stronger-than-forecast US manufacturing data. The Institute for Supply Management (ISM) index edged back to 59.1 in October from the previous month's 59.4, against expectations of a decline to 57.3.

The prices-paid component of the index, meanwhile, reached the highest level seen since May 2004, adding to concerns about inflation.

In mid-afternoon trade in New York, the Dow Jones Industrial Average and the S&P 500 were both down 0.1 per cent.

The technology-heavy Nasdaq Composite index was 0.2 per cent lower following disappointing third-quarter sales figures from computer maker Dell.

Treasury bond prices slipped marginally, pushing up yields, immediately after the Fed announcement.

European stocks managed to edge higher but there was air of tiredness in the markets following Monday's wave of merger and acquisition activity. The FTSE Eurofirst 300 index inched up 0.1 per cent to 1,201.29.

In Asia, Tokyo hit fresh highs in spite of a systems failure which allowed only 90 minutes of trading. The Nikkei 225 Average rose 1.9 per cent to a 4l-year high, while the broader Topix index climbed 2 per cent to a fresh five-year peak.

The rest of the region was broadly higher, with Seoul jumping 2.7 per cent, Hong Kong gaining 1.3 per cent and Bangkok ending 1.6 per cent firmer.

The dollar remained near to a two-year high against the yen in the wake of the Fed rate rise and the ISM data as investors continued to focus on interest rate differentials between the US and Japan.

Few in the markets expect any increase in Japanese rates in the foreseeable future.

The euro, meanwhile, had a steadier session after sliding nearly 1 per cent against the dollar on Monday, although a strong reading on the eurozone purchasing managers' index did little to persuade investors that the European Central Bank would raise rates this week.

Jens Nordvig, global markets economist at Goldman Sachs, said it was still "early days" for the recovery in the eurozone and that there was no immediate urgency for the ECB to tighten.

Oil prices continued to retreat, with benchmark West Texas Intermediate for December delivery stuck firmly below the $60 a barrel mark. The WTI contract has tumbled some 16 per cent since hitting a peak of $70.85 on August 30.

Barclays Capital said prices were being undermined by forecasts of warmer-than-expected weather in the US north-east, despite the fact that the winter heating season was barely underway yet.

Gold fell back as the rise in the dollar this week prompted selling by funds. The fall in the oil price has also weighed on the yellow metal, since rising energy costs have been a key driver of inflation fears. 
   RF45337942   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSm11 : Equity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTCOM00020051102e1b10002s  



 CLMCurrency Trading   HDForex View: Dollar Trend Seems Set to Continue --- Ranges Appear to Be Firm In Week Despite Fed Session And Key Economic Reports   BYBy Azam Ahmed Dow Jones Newswires    WC899 words   PD31 October 2005   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGC8   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 2005, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LPThe dollar looks unlikely to tread outside its favored ranges against major currencies this week, even as investors face a Federal Reserve policy meeting and a host of economic data.

The Fed's rate-setting panel, the Federal Open Market Committee, is widely expected to raise its target federal-funds rate to 4% from 3.75% when it meets tomorrow. The dollar has been underpinned in recent months by the promise of further rate increases in the Fed's effort to combat inflation.
   TDThough the U.S. currency strengthened Friday after better-than-expected third-quarter gross domestic product data to reclaim some ground lost earlier in the week, it has consistently traded in tight ranges against major currencies in the past several weeks.

Late Friday in New York, the euro had weakened to $1.2067, from $1.2139 late Thursday. The dollar strengthened to 115.67 yen from 115.46 yen late Thursday.

"We've been bouncing between the $1.19-to-$1.22 range [against the euro] and I don't know if this week's data is going to break us out of this tight range," said John McCarthy, director of foreign exchange at ING Barings Capital Markets in New York.

While the dollar isn't likely to set any new trends, some events could help push the currency toward the top of its ranges.

T.J. Marta, senior currency strategist at RBC Capital Markets in New York, said the dollar may be modestly supported ahead of the Fed meeting, on the expectation that policy makers will again strike a worried note on inflation.

Widely followed U.S. data scheduled for release include Friday's October nonfarm-payrolls report. Economists expect that job creation snapped back in October, with a consensus estimate that payrolls rose 150,000, after falling 35,000 in September because of hurricanes Katrina and Rita. The unemployment rate is expected to be unchanged at 5.1% for the month.

The Institute for Supply Management's October manufacturing and nonmanufacturing indexes will also be released this week. Tomorrow's manufacturing figure is expected to drop to 57.0 from 59.4 last month, according to a Dow Jones survey. The nonmanufacturing figure, due out Wednesday, is expected to rise to 58.0 from 53.3 in September.

The ISM figures could draw attention, since the dollar came under pressure last month following a larger-than-expected drop in the ISM nonmanufacturing index.

Though there isn't likely to be much talk from Federal Reserve officials, who by tradition say little about Fed policy in days surrounding policy meetings, markets will focus Thursday on Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan's testimony on the economic outlook before the congressional Joint Economic Committee in Washington. In particular, investors will want to hear Mr. Greenspan's views on how oil prices are affecting inflation and the economy.

Many analysts nevertheless question whether the deluge of fresh news can inspire investors to push the dollar out of the ranges that have confined trading. Many say the lack of significant movement in currencies reflects unchanged expectations for the course of Fed policy.

"The question is whether there is anything that will shift expectations in the market. We doubt that will be the case," said Robert Sinche, head of global foreign-exchange strategy at Bank of America. "I doubt there will be any new information" that could inspire a new trend in the market, he said.

ING's Mr. McCarthy doesn't see the U.S. currency moving below 115 to 116 yen this week. Last week, the dollar briefly hit its strongest level against the yen in more than two years, but its failure twice to extend the rally suggests investors are wary of taking the dollar appreciably out of its range.

Still, analysts don't expect the yen to strengthen significantly against the dollar. "It seems as if there's still solid interest for the Japanese to invest abroad, and so there's good reason to think that the yen will stay weak," Mr. McCarthy said.

Though Bank of Japan officials have recently signaled that they plan to gradually end their highly accommodative monetary policy, markets are making few bets yet on that front. Central bank officials have consistently said they will wait until years of deflation come to an end before tightening policy.

Conversely, markets have heeded European Central Bank officials, who have warned that concern over inflation soon might prompt them to start raising interest rates.

Most recently, ECB Vice President Lucas Papademos said inflation was a threat because of higher oil prices and the fast pace of consumer credit growth in the euro zone. This will be particularly important as markets look to this week's ECB governing-council meeting on Thursday, where an interest-rate decision will be announced. The ECB is expected to keep rates at 2%, but the focus will be on whether the central bank will sound hawkish.

"Markets have priced in the much larger possibility of ECB tightening," said Daniel Katzive, currency strategist at UBS in Stamford, Conn. "The press conference will be key in seeing how the euro trades" against major currencies. 

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REjap : Japan | usa : United States | asiaz : Asia | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America   IPCJPY | NND | TPX | USD | FEX | MIM   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument J000000020051031e1av0002q  



 CLMTuesday's Markets   HDStocks Decline As Fed Raises Interest Rates ---  Federal Reserve  Leaves No Doubt Further Increases Are Planned; Major Banks Bump Prime to 7%   BYBy E.S. Browning    WC486 words   PD2 November 2005   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGC1   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 2005, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LPSTOCKS FELL as the Federal Reserve again threw cold water on hopes that it might be near an end to interest-rate increases.

As expected, the Fed lifted its target rate for overnight lending by a quarter percentage point to 4%, the 12th-consecutive increase. The Fed again indicated that it will keep raising rates "at a pace that is likely to be measured," suggesting no end in sight to the process. That reinforced a consensus that the Fed will be raising rates, quarter point by quarter point, into the new year.
   TDThe Dow Jones Industrial Average, which had risen in the previous two sessions, gave back 33.30 points, or 0.32%, to finish at 10406.77, down 3.5% this year. The dollar hit another two-year high against the yen.

Most major banks -- including J.P. Morgan Chase, Wachovia and Wells Fargo -- raised the prime lending rate, the base rate for many loans, to 7% from 6.75%.

The Fed's statement fanned fears that inflation risks could keep the Fed raising rates for months to come, and that this could weigh on profits.

"The Fed had no surprises," said Matthew Johnson, head of stock syndication at New York brokerage firm Lehman Brothers. "It was more of the same." It left investors with the same "pattern of uncertainty that we have been dealing with in the equity markets since Labor Day," Mr. Johnson said.

Stocks also were depressed by a disappointing sales and profit forecast from Dell, issued late Monday. They got a strong report on October manufacturing activity, but the report also included a high inflation number.

The Standard &Poor's 500-stock index fell 0.35%, or 4.25 points, to 1202.76, down just 0.8% for the year. The Nasdaq Composite Index declined 0.29%, or 6.25 points, to 2114.05, off 2.8% this year.

Outside the U.S., stocks advanced in dollar terms, including another rally in the Nikkei Stock Average in Japan. The Dow Jones World Stock Index, excluding U.S. stocks, rose 0.67%, or 1.22 points, to 183.77.

In major U.S. market action:

Stocks retreated. On the Big Board, 1.78 billion shares traded; 1,548 stocks rose and 1,732 fell.

Bond prices declined. The 10-year Treasury note fell 3/32, or 94 cents for each $1,000 invested, pushing the yield up to 4.573%. The 30-year bond was down 4/32 to yield 4.765%.

The dollar was mixed. Late in New York, the currency traded at 116.63 yen, up from 116.40, while the euro rose against the dollar to $1.2013 from $1.1985. 



License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   INi814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSm11 : Equity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | e1202 : Interest Rates | gpersf : Personal Finance | gvtre : Treasury Department | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m131 : Money Markets | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | mntdbt : National Government Debt/Bond Markets | nsum : News Digest | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | glife : Living/Lifestyle | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | gvexe : Executive Branch | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | niwe : IWE Filter   REjap : Japan | usa : United States | asiaz : Asia | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America   IPCPIC | TRE | USG | STT | JPY | NND | TPX | USD | MIM | PMK | TFR | TPT   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument J000000020051102e1b20003a  


 CLMTHE OUTLOOK:   SEThe Economy   HDTHE OUTLOOK: Is Bernanke an Inflation Dove? Yes, but They Aren't What They Used to Be   BYBy Greg Ip    WC1,175 words   PD31 October 2005   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGA2   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 2005, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LPTHE DEBATE over whether Ben Bernanke is an inflation dove obscures an important point: Inflation doves today aren't the same as inflation doves of old. The difference is crucial to figuring out what interest-rate policy Mr. Bernanke will pursue if confirmed to succeed Alan Greenspan as U.S. Federal Reserve chairman.

In the 1960s and 1970s, many central bankers thought inflation did little harm and that reducing it was unacceptably painful. That breed of dove is now almost extinct. Today's hawks and doves are distinguished not by their philosophy, but by their forecast. Both believe in the wisdom of keeping inflation low. Doves are more confident it will stay there without wrenching increases in interest rates.
   TDJudging by his public comments, Mr. Bernanke is an old-fashioned hawk but a modern dove. He expects inflation to remain low and, if that forecast proves correct, he probably will keep rates down. If that forecast proves wrong, he will raise them as far and as fast as Mr. Greenspan would have, and perhaps further.

When inflation began to creep up in the mid-1960s, the consequences were routinely dismissed. Lyle Gramley, then a Fed economist, remembers a colleague named Arthur Hersey who would warn inflation was getting out of control and had to be brought down. "People used to snicker at Arthur," says Mr. Gramley, who served as a Fed governor in the 1980s. "We thought he was making way too much of something that wasn't that important."

IN THOSE DAYS, policy makers believed they could reduce unemployment by accepting a bit more inflation. By the 1970s, unemployment and inflation were rising. The Fed didn't try to reverse inflation's upswing. "You'd say, `It happened. That's too bad. Let's not worry too much about it,' " Mr. Gramley says. "If you don't assign a pretty high negative to inflation, you're not inclined to pay the price of bringing it down."

Future Nobel laureate Milton Friedman began to chip away at those beliefs in the 1960s when he argued that higher inflation couldn't permanently lower unemployment. Eventually, he said, workers would demand wage increases to compensate for inflation, and unemployment would return to where it was. Other scholars showed how inflation hurt economic growth by distorting investment decisions. As Fed chairmen, Paul Volcker and Mr. Greenspan offered proof for that academic case by getting inflation down -- and, eventually, seeing unemployment fall, too.

Mr. Bernanke long has advocated setting inflation targets as a way of institutionalizing Mr. Volcker's and Mr. Greenspan's conquest of inflation. A target, he has said, would hold the central bank accountable. Over time, it would make the public more willing to believe low inflation will last, and that will make it easier for the Fed to cut rates when the economy softens without fueling inflation in the process.

He also has argued that inflation targets can prevent Japanese-style deflation. Maintaining "price stability," the mantra of modern central bankers, means being both an inflation hawk and deflation hawk, in the old sense of the term.

In short, Mr. Bernanke doesn't have the philosophy of a dove. But does he have the forecast of one? He may, judging from his public comments over the past year as a Fed governor and, since June, as head of President Bush's Council of Economic Advisers.

His position on a debate that gripped the Fed this year offers an important clue. The Fed had been raising its key short-term interest rate since June 2004 and was signaling the rate still was below "neutral," a level believed to neither stimulate nor restrain growth. The Fed was suggesting rates would rise further.

YET FINANCIAL markets anticipated the Fed wouldn't raise rates much more, and bond yields, which reflect expectations of inflation, growth and Fed policy, remained unusually low. Fed officials wondered: Are markets telling us the economy is headed for trouble, a hint that they shouldn't tighten much more? Or are factors other than normal economic forces at work in the bond market, suggesting that the Fed should continue to lift rates?

Mr. Bernanke tended toward the first interpretation, with its dovish implications for Fed actions. "In the view of the markets at least, the neutral funds rate may be somewhat lower today than it was in the past," he said in a speech in March. He wasn't alone. The Fed's professional staff, with whom Mr. Bernanke worked closely, also thought consumers' need to boost saving and the fading stimulus of the 2003 tax cuts might be drags on economic growth.

In a later speech Mr. Bernanke argued foreigners were spending and investing too little, making it difficult for the U.S. to reduce its trade deficit. A "global savings glut" was holding down long-term rates, he said.

Brian Sack, who once worked with Mr. Bernanke at the Fed and now is at the forecasting concern Macroeconomic Advisers LLC, says the theory "gave intellectual capital to an idea that would promote some caution" about the Fed raising rates.

As Mr. Bush's economist, Mr. Bernanke has predicted inflation will stay low. However, that is often the refrain of White House officials, who are supposed to sound optimistic. It isn't clear if he will have the same view at the Fed. After all, in recent months even previously dovish Fed officials have ratcheted up their anti-inflation rhetoric. One of them, San Francisco Federal Reserve Bank President Janet Yellen, recently suggested rates have to go higher than she previously believed to reach neutral.

Mr. Greenspan is intent on pre-empting higher inflation by erring on the side of higher rates, even if that means weaker economic growth. The Fed tomorrow is expected to raise the target for the federal-funds rate, at which banks lend to each other, to 4% from 3.75%, and to signal plans to go further. Markets expect the rate to hit 4.5% on Jan. 31, Mr. Greenspan's last day in office.

In principle, Mr. Bernanke favors pre-emption. "Policy makers achieve better results when they act in advance to forestall developing problems," he said in 2004. Mr. Sack wonders, will Mr. Bernanke "err on the side of restraint, considering that the transition to a new chairman might make the Fed's credibility more fragile?" Both Mr. Greenspan and Mr. Volcker raised rates after taking office.

If Mr. Bernanke's forecast is as dovish as it was in March, he may be inclined to leave rates where he finds them. But a dovish forecast doesn't mean a dovish philosophy. If his forecast is wrong and inflation takes off, he may have to raise rates significantly -- because his goal no longer will be to keep inflation from rising, but to actually get it down. 



License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | ecat : Economic News | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvexe : Executive Branch | nedc : Commentary/Opinion | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gvbod : Government Bodies | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCPIC | FED | USG | NND | ECN | OLK   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument J000000020051031e1av0002l  


 CLMCredit Markets   HDTreasurys May Be in for Bumpy Ride --- Economic Menu Is Plentiful With Fed Meeting on Rates, Greenspan and Jobs Data   BYBy Michael S. Derby Dow Jones Newswires    WC618 words   PD31 October 2005   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGC5   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 2005, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LPThe bond market has had a tough go of it recently, and this week is likely to bring more of the same.

Investors in fixed-income securities are facing a busy calendar of economic data, a Federal Reserve meeting that is almost certain to result in an increase in interest rates, and the announcement of new debt from the Treasury Department. And on the Fed front, it's a double whammy: Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan will speak on the economy Thursday before a congressional committee.
   TDThe government bond market enters this environment on less-than-favorable footing. Since the end of the summer, the 10-year yield, which moves inversely to its prices, has been grinding higher, rising to 4.57% late Friday, from 4.02% on Aug. 31.

The rest of the yield curve has suffered too. The culprits? A combination of rising inflation fears tied to the energy market and expectations of continued interest-rate increases from the Fed. The latest round of difficulties have been technical in nature and abetted by selling from mortgage-market participants.

"The likely way forward is south" for bond prices, said John Canavan, market strategist for Stone &McCarthy Research Associates in Princeton, N.J. He reckons "there isn't anything that should be helpful," and even the technical environment for yields is unfavorable.

The biggest numbers on the economic calendar this week are the inflation components of the September personal-consumption and income data due today, along with the Institute for Supply Management's October manufacturing index tomorrow, the same day as the Fed meeting. Thursday brings third-quarter productivity data and on Friday, the October nonfarm U.S. payrolls report, which will be one of the most important numbers the market will get all month.

Economists expect a favorable story will emerge from these numbers, to the detriment of bonds, which are likely to post more price declines.

Forecasters say the ISM data will show strong growth, though the expected 57.0 reading will be slower than the 59.4 seen in September. They also see the ISM report showing a continued build-up of price pressures, another bond negative.

On the hiring front, hurricanes Katrina and Rita loom large. September payrolls fell by 35,000 largely because of weather-related effects, ending a long string of reasonably stable gains in the series. Forecasters believe October will rebound and bring hiring rates back close to the trend, and they believe the month's gain will likely come in at around 150,000.

When the data are all taken together, "the story that will gain greater currency is that the economy is in better condition than some people had expected in the post-Katrina environment," said Ken Mayland, of forecasting firm ClearView Economics in Pepper Pike, Ohio.

The Fed's interest rate-setting Federal Open Market Committee will gather tomorrow, and all major banks predict an increase, raising the federal-funds target rate to 4% from 3.75%. The policy statement is where most interest will lie, as market participants scour the document for clues about where U.S. central bankers will be taking rates next. Expectations are low that the Fed will re-engineer the document it released at its previous meeting Sept. 20, and most expect the Fed to remain confident that respectable growth will continue and suggest more rate increases are likely.

The market will also get an announcement from the Treasury Department about its plans for quarterly borrowing. 

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   INi814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | gvtre : Treasury Department | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m131 : Money Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mntdbt : National Government Debt/Bond Markets | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | gvexe : Executive Branch | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCTRE | USG | NND | TPX | CRD | MIM   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument J000000020051031e1av0000n  



 CLMAhead of the Tape   HDAhead of the Tape   BYBy Justin Lahart    WC424 words   PD1 November 2005   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGC1   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 2005, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP[Today's Market Forecast]

12-Step Program
   TDAnyone who has spent time in the hills is familiar with the way a trail up a mountain can offer several false peaks before the real summit presents itself. Perhaps the Federal Reserve can relate.

When its policy-setting committee gathers today, the Fed looks set to raise its overnight-lending target rate by a quarter point. It would be the 12th increase in as many meetings. Still, the Commerce Department reported that gross domestic product grew an annualized 3.8% in the third quarter, and economists polled by The Wall Street Journal expect it will grow by 3.3% in the fourth quarter.

The continued strength of the economy means that market participants expect the Fed, trying to keep inflation in check, will keep raising its target rate after today's expected move to 4%. The Fed-funds futures market, which prices off of investors' interest-rate expectations, points to quarter-point increases in December and January. That would bring the target rate to 4.5% when Ben Bernanke takes over for Fed chairman Alan Greenspan.

Even though the economy at large is growing, confidence measures like last week's reports from the Conference Board and the University of Michigan suggest that for many people things don't feel so good. This glum mood may be partly owing to headline effects: Polled about the economy, people respond to unsettling reports on inflation and so on rather than their own straits.

But another possibility, suggests Mesirow Financial economists Diane Swonk, is that the economy has become even more bifurcated, with the well-heeled -- who have an outsize share of U.S. consumer-spending power -- continuing to feel good even as middle-income and lower-income Americans tighten their belts amid high energy costs. "It's an economy that looks better on paper than it feels to most individuals," says Ms. Swonk.

The sour mood on the economy seems especially pronounced in the Midwest, and no wonder. The region's workers are bearing the brunt of a global restructuring that has hurt U.S. manufacturers and reduced union clout. Meantime, today's October auto-sales reports should show that Detroit continues to pay for its past incentive programs.

"If the Fed's sole occupation was the Midwest economy, it would surely be acting less aggressively," says National City economist Richard DeKaser.

---

Send comments to justin.lahart@wsj.com 



License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | ecat : Economic News | gpersf : Personal Finance | gvexe : Executive Branch | m11 : Equity Markets | gcat : Political/General News | glife : Living/Lifestyle | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCPIC | FED | USG | NND | AOT | TFR   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument J000000020051101e1b10001g  


 CLMMonday's Markets   HDStocks Rise as Investors Focus on Drop In Oil Prices, Upbeat Economic News   BYBy E.S. Browning    WC583 words   PD1 November 2005   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGC1   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 2005, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LPSTOCKS ROSE for a second consecutive session, with the Dow Jones Industrial Average adding 37.30 points to Friday's 172.82-point gain.

Despite widespread expectations that the Federal Reserve will boost its target short-term interest rate to 4% today -- the 12th consecutive quarter-point increase -- and continue to raise rates later, investors focused on falling oil prices and upbeat economic and corporate news.
   TDCrude-oil futures finished below $60 a barrel for the first time since July.

The dollar jumped to a fresh two-year high against Japan's currency, surpassing 116 yen.

The Dow industrials rose 0.36% to 10440.07 in heavy trading. They finished down 1.2% for the month and off 3.2% for 2005 but were a lot higher than Thursday's 10229.95. Although several market debacles have occurred in October, the month otherwise has been kind to stocks, and this was just the second red October in eight years.

Before Friday's rebound, the blue-chip average was down 3.2% for the month, which would have been the biggest monthly decline since January 2003. Now, some bullish investors are talking again about the possibility of a year-end rally.

"The investor community got pretty bearish last week," said Tim Heekin, director of trading at San Francisco brokerage firm Thomas Weisel Partners. But when stocks rebounded after each of a series of declines, investors saw signs of a bottom. "Now, I think people are looking for November and December to be pretty decent months," Mr. Heekin said.

Crude oil fell $1.46 to $59.76 a barrel, ending a string of 65 closes above $60, amid talk that the worst of the hurricane-related supply disruptions are ending and that autumn weather is unusually warm. Crude is 14% below the 22-year high of $69.81 hit Aug. 30 but still up 38% this year.

A Commerce Department report on personal incomes and spending was stronger than expected, and a related inflation gauge was tame. Investors also welcomed Wal-Mart Stores' weekend announcement of strong October sales and continued to celebrate Friday's government report showing strong third-quarter growth and mild inflation.

The Standard &Poor's 500-stock index rose 0.72%, or 8.60 points, to 1207.01; its two-day increase of 2.4% was the biggest in a year. The S&P 500 is down just 0.4% this year. The Nasdaq Composite Index advanced 1.46%, or 30.42 points, to 2120.30, but is down 2.5% this year.

Outside the U.S., stocks advanced in dollar terms. The Dow Jones World Stock Index, excluding U.S. stocks, rose 1.25%, or 2.25 points, to 182.55.

In major U.S. market action:

Stocks advanced. On the New York Stock Exchange, where 1.89 billion shares traded, 2,482 stocks rose and 810 fell.

Bond prices gained. The 10-year Treasury note rose 3/32, or 94 cents for each $1,000 invested, pushing the yield down to 4.563%. The 30-year bond was up 9/32 to yield 4.757%.

The dollar strengthened. Late in New York, the currency traded at 116.40 yen, up from 115.67 yen on Friday, while the euro fell against the dollar to $1.1985 from $1.2067. 



License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   NSm11 : Equity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | e1202 : Interest Rates | gpersf : Personal Finance | gvtre : Treasury Department | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m131 : Money Markets | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | mntdbt : National Government Debt/Bond Markets | nsum : News Digest | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | glife : Living/Lifestyle | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | gvexe : Executive Branch | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | niwe : IWE Filter   REjap : Japan | usa : United States | asiaz : Asia | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America   IPCPIC | TRE | USG | STT | JPY | NND | TPX | USD | MIM | PMK | TFR | TPT   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument J000000020051101e1b10002q  


 HDInflation Bond Gets Big Rate Increase --- As Consumer Prices Climb, Yield Jumps To 6.73%; Other Ways to Shield Your Portfolio   BYBy Jane J. Kim and Ruth Simon    WC1,614 words   PD2 November 2005   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGD1   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 2005, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LPHIGHER ENERGY prices may be pinching consumers' pocketbooks, but they are also boosting returns for some investors who buy inflation-protected securities.

Yesterday, the Treasury Department sharply increased the yield on its I Bond savings bond to 6.73% from 4.8% previously. The rate adjusts twice a year, based on the consumer-price index, or CPI. The new rate is more than two percentage points above the average yield on other conservative investments, such as short-term certificates of deposit and money-market mutual funds.
   TDThe boost in yield comes as higher energy costs, from gasoline to heating oil, pushed consumer prices up 1.2% in September from the previous month -- the fastest acceleration in more than 25 years -- and up 4.7% from a year earlier. Yesterday, the Federal Reserve again hiked short-term interest rates, saying the "cumulative rise in energy and other costs has the potential to add to inflation pressures."

Inflation is the bane of investors because it reduces real returns. The I Bond is part of an ever-expanding category of inflation-linked products ranging from Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities, or TIPS, to foreign bonds whose returns can vary depending on whether consumer prices are rising or falling. Investors can also choose from inflation-linked corporate and municipal bonds and certificates of deposit as well as mutual funds and at least one exchange-traded fund that invest in inflation-protected bonds.

Inflation-linked investments aim to help investors maintain their purchasing power by providing a return above the rate of inflation. But there are big caveats. For one thing, if inflation eases, investors could see their returns fall. Indeed, despite today's high energy costs, the Fed said in its statement yesterday that "core inflation has been relatively low in recent months and longer-term inflation expectations remain contained."

Despite the compelling rate, for investors considering an I Bond, there are some notable restrictions. The bonds generally can't be redeemed in the first year. And an investor who redeems the bond within the first five years must give up three months interest as a penalty. One positive: Interest on I Bonds is exempt from state and local income taxes.

Many experts say that only a small portion of one's portfolio -- typically 5% to 10% -- should be parked in inflation-linked products. That's because the key reason to own these products is to protect oneself against the possibility that the Fed won't be successful at controlling inflation.

Investment professionals caution investors to look beyond the I Bond's current 6.73% yield and focus instead on how that yield is calculated. The rate paid on the I Bond has two parts: a fixed-rate that lasts for the 30-year life of the bond and an inflation adjustment that is tied to the CPI for the preceding six months. The inflation adjustment is made twice a year, on May 1 and Nov. 1.

The new inflation adjustment, announced yesterday, is 5.73%, reflecting the steep increase in the CPI over the last six months. That's the highest inflation adjustment on record since the bonds were first launched by the U.S. government in September 1998. At the same time, the Treasury cut the fixed rate on new issues to 1% from 1.2%. That means investors who buy I Bonds can expect a 1% return after inflation.

"People are going to look at the headline number and talk about how good the I Bond is," said Greg McBride, a senior financial analyst with Bankrate.com. "But the I Bond didn't get better. It got worse." He says the fixed-rate is more important to investors over the long term because it remains constant for the life of the bond; the inflation-adjustment, by contrast, changes every six months.

If inflation moderates, investors could wind up earning higher returns on other low-risk investments, such as high-yield money-market funds, high-yield bank money market accounts and CDs. Rates for one-year CDs can be as high as 4.65%, according to Bankrate.com, while some five-year CDs have yields of as much as 5%.

TIPS, which are bonds issued by the Treasury Department, are also popular among investors worried about inflation. TIPS bear a stated interest rate, and the owner receives semiannual interest payments. If the pace of inflation increases, so does the value of the bond's principal -- as well as the subsequent interest payment. The investor gets an increase in the value of the principal at maturity. One downside: Investors must pay federal taxes each year on the increased value of the principal, even though any increase isn't received until the bond is sold or matures. That's why TIPS are often held in tax-deferred accounts.

TIPS aren't as attractive as they were a couple of years ago. Anton Pil, global head of fixed-income at J.P. Morgan Chase Private Bank, calculated that inflation on average has to be above 2.6% over the next 10 years for TIPS to outperform comparable Treasurys. This figure would have been just 1.6% in mid-2003, he said.

Other inflation-linked products include corporate and municipal bonds whose coupon payments are linked to year-over-year or month-over-month changes in the CPI plus a fixed rate. Corporate bonds generally pay out interest every month, while munis pay out twice a year.

One big difference between these securities and TIPS is that changes in the inflation rate are immediately reflected in their coupon payments, so investors get more of the inflation adjustment up front. Investors in the highest tax brackets tend to benefit most from municipal bonds because of their tax-exempt features. Meanwhile, corporate inflation-linked bonds tend to pay 1.5 or 1.6 times the CPI index. One potential downside is that because these markets are still relatively new, individual investors may have a difficult time buying and selling the bonds.

--- 


                           Inflation Fighters 
 
  Investors worried about rising consumer prices can opt for inflation-linked 
products. 
 
  -- I Bonds are paying attractive interest rates, but yields will fall if 
inflation eases. 
 
  -- TIPS promise a rate of return above inflation, but are less attractive 
than they were a couple of years ago. 
 
  -- Another option: Invest in commodities, but these could be volatile in 
the short term.   

--- 


                 Shielding Your Portfolio From Inflation 
 
  Investors can choose from a number of products whose principal and 
interest payments are designed to keep pace with rising prices. Here are 
some popular inflation fighters. 
 
  CATEGORY: I Bonds 
  WHAT IT IS: A savings bond that earns interest on a monthly basis based 
on a fixed rate plus a twice-yearly inflation adjustment. Interest accrues 
over the years and investors receive the earnings only when they cash in 
the bond. 
  PROS: As U.S. government securities, these bonds are ultrasafe. They also 
offer tax breaks for some families using the bonds to pay for college, 
depending on the owner's income and other restrictions. 
  CONS: Investors generally can't cash in the bond in the first year after 
purchase. If they redeem the bond within five years, they will forfeit the 
most recent three months' interest. 
  HOW TO BUY: Investors can buy the bonds directly at TreasuryDirect.gov, 
at most local financial institutions or through payroll deductions. 
Investors buy the bonds at face value; the minimum purchase is $50 for a 
paper bond and $25 for the electronic form. 
 
  CATEGORY: Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities (TIPS) 
  WHAT IT IS: Treasury bonds whose value increases with inflation. The 
bonds pay a semiannual fixed-coupon payment.The coupon is applied to a 
principal amount that fluctuates with changes in the consumer price index. 
  PROS: As U.S. government securities, TIPS have no credit risk. 
  CONS: Investors owe "phantom taxes" each year on the increased value of 
the principal even though that money isn't received until the bond is sold 
or matures. 
  HOW TO BUY: Investors can participate in Treasury auctions of TIPS at 
TreasuryDirect.gov. They are sold in $1,000 increments. Investors can also 
buy new and previously issued TIPS through brokers, although they may pay 
trading costs. 
 
  CATEGORY: Corporate Inflation-Linked Securities 
  WHAT IT IS: A corporate bond that pays a monthly coupon consisting of two 
parts: a fixed rate plus an inflation adjustment based on the CPI. 
  PROS: Offers higher yields than comparable Treasurys and, unlike TIPS, 
adjust monthly for inflation increases so investors typically get more of 
the inflation adjustment up front. 
  CONS: Investors carry the higher risk of the company issuing them. Also, 
since the market for these bonds is still relatively small, individual 
investors may find it difficult to buy and sell them. 
  HOW TO BUY: Investors can buy the bonds in increments of $1,000 through 
"retail notes programs" such as those run by Incapital LLC,Merrill Lynch 
and LaSalle Broker Dealer Services Division, a unit of ABN Amro Holding NV. 
 
  CATEGORY: Inflation-Linked Certificates of Deposit 
  WHAT IT IS: A CD that pays a monthly coupon consisting of two parts: a 
fixed base rate plus an inflation adjustment. 
  PROS: Amounts up to $100,000 are FDIC insured. 
  CONS: Offers a lower initial yield than traditional CDs or comparable 
Treasurys. 
  HOW TO BUY: Sold by LaSalle Broker Dealer Services through brokers in 
minimum investments of $1,000. Like inflation-linked corporate bonds, sales 
commissions are built into the face value of the CD. 
   

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   NSm12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mntdbt : National Government Debt/Bond Markets | e1202 : Interest Rates | gpersf : Personal Finance | gvtre : Treasury Department | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | glife : Living/Lifestyle | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | gvexe : Executive Branch | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCTRE | USG | NND | PSJ   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument J000000020051102e1b20002k  



 SEFRONT PAGE - COMPANIES &MARKETS   HDJittery investors shy away from bond risk.   BYBy JENNIFER HUGHES, STEVE JOHNSON and IVAR SIMENSEN    WC484 words   PD31 October 2005   SNFinancial Times   SCFTFT   EDLondon Ed3   PGPage 19   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2005 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LP* Yield spreads are likely to have widened again

* Junk issuance set to be weakest since 2002
   TDGrowing uncertainty about the global economic and interest rate outlook has unnerved bond investors and prompted warnings that market volatility could rise further in coming months.

October is set to be the third consecutive month that aggregate corporate bond yield spreads - the higher return demanded by investors for corporate paper over highly rated government debt - have widened, indicating rising risk aversion. It would be the first time this has happened since the summer of 2002, according to Lehman Brothers.

In the US, issuance of risky "junk" bonds is set for its weakest month - at about Dollars 2bn (Pounds 1.1bn) - since October 2002, according to Thomson Financial.

The nomination last week of Ben Bernanke to chair the US Federal Reserve next year focused market attention on the impending leadership change at the central bank. This has added to concerns about the impact of higher inflation, rising interest rates, political turmoil in Washington and company-specific problems such as the accounting probe into General Motors announced last week.

Benchmark government bonds in the US and Europe have just suffered their biggest weekly falls since early this year and are down sharply on the month as expectations grow of interest rate rises. Yields on benchmark 10-year Treasuries jumped from 4.4 per cent to 4.6 per cent last week while equivalent German Bund yields leapt from 3.24 per cent to 3.41 per cent.

Paul O'Brien, fixed income portfolio manager at Morgan Stanley Investment Management, said: "Monetary tightening is finally leading to a sharp slowdown in liquidity growth, and tight liquidity has long been a marker for economic risk."

The Federal Reserve is tomorrow expected to raise interest rates by a quarter-point to 4 per cent, with further rises priced in for December and January.

Jes Black, hedge fund manager at Black Flag Capital Partners, said: "It doesn't look good. Markets really don't like tighter money after overdosing on easy policy in the last few years."

Hans Peter Lorenzen, credit strategist at BNP Paribas, said: "The principal concern from a credit perspective is a renewed sell-off in equity markets occurring concurrently with a further spike in yields." This was a sign of the extent of inflation worries.

In spite of a strong rally on Friday, the S&P 500 index, the US stock market benchmark, is set for its worst monthly performance since January in spite of continued robust US earnings and economic growth. In Europe, the FTSE Eurofirst 300 index ended last week off 4.6 per cent for the month.

Additional reporting by Steve Johnson in New York and Ivar Simensen in London Energy repercussions, Page 34 
   RF20051031L319.010   NSm12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | npag : Page-One Story | mntdbt : National Government Debt/Bond Markets | c171 : Share Capital | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | c17 : Funding/Capital | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTFT000020051031e1av00041  



 SEFT PREVIEW   HDEnergy price repercussions weigh on  interest rate  views THE MARKET.   BYBy CHRIS FLOOD    WC546 words   PD31 October 2005   SNFinancial Times   SCFTFT   EDLondon Ed1   PGPage 34   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2005 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPInterest rate decisions from the US and eurozone take centre stage in a week packed with data releases that will help illuminate whether global growth is strengthening in the final quarter as energy prices have eased from post-Katrina highs.

Core inflation in both the US and Europe has remained moderate but policymakers are still concerned about managing inflation expectations and the threat of high energy prices feeding through to wage claims and companies' costs.
   TDThe Federal Reserve is widely expected to raise US interest rates by 25 basis points to 4 per cent tomorrow and attention will focus on the accompanying statement for any hint of adjustment in the Fed's monetary stance. Ben Bernanke's appointment as successor to Alan Greenspan has provoked debate on whether the incoming chairman can be regarded "dovish" on inflation and interest rates.

Meg Browne of Brown Brothers Harriman said: "With a new chairman, the Fed will probably be more than usually 'biased to err on the side of (monetary) tightness', given the need to build credibility."

The Institute of Supply Management's September surveys on manufacturing (tomorrow) and non-manufacturing (Thursday) should help clarify whether the full impact of the disruption caused by the hurricanes was captured by September's data releases, which reported a remarkable degree of resilience in the US economy. Employment fell by 35,000 in September, a far better than expected outcome but the true extent of job losses might not have fully registered in that month's data. The consensus forecast for October is for an employment increase of 125,000 but a disappointment could see the unemployment rate edge up from 5.1 per cent to 5.2 per cent.

The eurozone labour market might have stabilised but has yet to show any significant evidence of reacting to the improving conditions in the European economy. German unemployment figures for October, due on Wednesday, are expected to register a tiny decline of about 18,000. Unemployment across the eurozone is expected to remain unchanged at 8.6 per cent in September's figures on Friday.

The eurozone manufacturing purchasing managers' survey, due tomorrow, is expected to show a further improvement in October but the services sector report, due on Thursday, might register a small correction after a stronger than expected rise in September.

The European Central Bank is expected to keep rates on hold at 2 per cent on Thursday but there has been a clear change in the ECB's language, expressing greater concern about the threat to price stability.

Further evidence of how inflationary pressures are evolving will come from eurozone producer price inflation (on Friday), which is expected to rise to 4.4 per cent in September from 4 per cent previously, mainly as a result of high oil prices.

In the UK, retailers are desperately hoping for some sign of improvement in consumer confidence in the run-up to Christmas.

An improvement in the property market would help and analysts hope the rise in mortgage approvals - an increase of 110,000 for September is expected - could prompt an increase in annual house price inflation in the Nationwide survey for October, due tomorrow. 
   RF20051031L134.012   CObbh : Brown Brothers Harriman and Co   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1103 : Inflation/Prices | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTFT000020051031e1av0003r  



 HDU.S.  Federal Reserve  boost key  interest rate  to highest level in more than four years     BYBy MARTIN CRUTSINGER     CRAP Economics Writer   WC775 words   PD1 November 2005   ET20:33   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2005.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.  
   LPWASHINGTON (AP) - The Federal Reserve, still concerned about inflation, raised a key interest rate on Tuesday to the highest level in more than four years and signaled more increases are likely.  

The Fed announced it was pushing its target for the federal funds rate, the interest that banks charge each other, to 4 percent from 3.75 percent, where it had been since the Fed's last interest-rate meeting on Sept. 20.  
   TDIt marked the 12th consecutive quarter-point increase since the Fed began gradually raising rates in June 2004 to make sure that a growing economy did not generate higher inflation.  

Higher interest rates fight inflation by slowing economic activity. The higher rates dampen demand for such items as autos and homes.  

In a brief statement explaining Tuesday's action, the Fed retained language it has been using, which said it believes future interest rates can occur "at a pace that is likely to be measured." That phrase is seen as a signal that the Fed plans to keep raising rates at a gradual pace of quarter-point moves at coming meetings.  

Tuesday's rate hike had been widely expected, given that a number of Fed officials in recent weeks have expressed worries that the sharp rise in energy prices that occurred in early September presented the danger of more widespread inflation pressures down the road.  

The Fed rate increase hike will mean increased borrowing costs for millions of Americans with commercial banks expected to follow the Fed's quarter-point rate hike with their own quarter-point increase in the prime lending rate, which currently stands at 6.75 percent.  

Many analysts believe the Fed will keep raising interest rates at its final meeting of this year on Dec. 13 and at its first meeting of 2006, on Jan. 31.  

Two more quarter-point increases would push the funds rate to 4.5 percent at the Jan. 31 meeting, which will be Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan's final meeting. He is stepping down with the end of his term on the board, concluding more than 18 years at the central bank.  

President George W. Bush last week nominated Ben Bernanke, his top White House economic adviser to succeed Greenspan. Bernanke has said that his "first priority" will be to maintain continuity with Greenspan's policies.  

The Fed statement retained language used after the September meeting indicating that the central bank believed Hurricane Katrina would have only a temporary impact on economic growth, with greater concerns about what the hurricanes would do to energy prices, given the shutdowns of Gulf Coast production facilities.  

"The cumulative rise in energy and other costs have the potential to add to inflation pressures; however, core inflation has been relatively low in recent months and longer-term inflation expectations remain contained," the Fed said in its statement.  

The increase pushed the funds rate to its highest level since it was at 4 percent in the summer of 2001, a time when the central bank was cutting interest rates to revive the economy.  

The government reported last Friday that the overall economy grew at a solid annual rate of 3.8 percent in the July-September quarter. Private analysts said growth would have been well above 4 percent without the impact of the hurricanes.  

People who know both Greenspan and Bernanke said Bernanke's pledge to follow Greenspan's policies is very credible when considering the close working relationship the two enjoyed when Bernanke served from 2002 to June of this year as a Fed board member.  

A number of Fed officials in speeches in October voiced concern about the potential threat of rising inflation. The Fed's most recent survey of the economy, the Beige Book, noted that prices were increasing for everything from lumber and hardware to hotel rooms.  

Also, the Labor Department reported that consumer prices in September shot up by 1.2 percent, the biggest one-month increase in a quarter-century, led by a record rise in energy prices. This reflected the impact of hurricane-forced production shutdowns along the Gulf Coast.  

Many analysts believe that a funds rate at 4.5 percent would represent a "neutral" level which was not spurring economic activity or depressing further activity and the Fed would then be content to leave the funds rate there for some time. However, some analysts said that if inflation pressures are mounting, the Fed under Bernanke will keep raising rates to 5 percent or higher early next year.  
   RF5   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagpf1wcat | sel----- | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | NA FIN ECO US Fed Interest Rates | D8DJS6AG5   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020051101e1b1001cq  



 HD Federal Reserve  boost key  interest rate  to highest level in more than four years     BYBy MARTIN CRUTSINGER     CRAP Economics Writer   WC127 words   PD1 November 2005   ET20:22   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2005.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.  
   LPi WASHINGTON (AP) - The Federal Reserve, still concerned about U.S. inflation, raised a key interest rate on Tuesday to the highest level in more than four years and signaled more increases are likely.  

The Fed announced it was pushing its target for the federal funds rate, the interest that banks charge each other, to 4 percent from 3.75 percent, where it had been since the Fed's last interest-rate meeting on Sept. 20.  
   TDIt marked the 12th consecutive quarter-point increase since the Fed began gradually raising rates in June 2004 to make sure that a growing economy did not generate higher inflation.  
   RF5   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPCtagpf1wcat | sel----- | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | NA FIN ECO US Fed Interest Rates0 | D8DJS13O4   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020051101e1b1002r9  



 SETHE AMERICAS   HDFed highlights inflation fears as rates rise.   BYBy ANDREW BALLS    WC492 words   PD2 November 2005   SNFinancial Times   SCFTFT   EDLondon Ed1   PGPage 6   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2005 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPThe Federal Reserve yesterday pushed its target interest rate up to 4 per cent, highlighted concerns about inflation and said it expected to continue tightening monetary policy.

The policymaking Federal Open Market Committee repeated its judgment that, following the increase, monetary policy still remained accommodative and said it expected to continue raising rates at a "measured" pace. It was the twelfth consecutive quarter point rate increase, stretching back to June of last year. Financial market reaction was limited after a decision that was widely expected, with a slight drop in bond prices and rises in stocks and the dollar.
   TDThe Fed said that high energy prices and hurricane-related disruptions had temporarily depressed output and employment.

"Monetary policy accommodation, coupled with robust underlying growth in productivity, is providing ongoing support to economic activity that will likely be augmented by planned rebuilding in the hurricane-affected areas," the FOMC statement said.

It again highlighted inflation risks, saying the "cumulative rise in energy and other costs have the potential to add to inflation pressures" while adding that core inflation and longer-term inflation expectations remained contained.

The stress on cumulative energy price increases adds to the impression that a chief concern is a potential pass-through to core inflation after a sustained climb in the oil price.

The impact on core inflation has been limited to date. But the 2 per cent rise in the Fed's preferred measure of core inflation in the two months to September is already at the top of the 1-2 per cent "comfort range" popularised by former Fed governor Ben Bernanke.

Mr Bernanke has been nominated to replace Alan Greenspan as Fed chairman. There will be two more meetings of the FOMC, in December and January, before Mr Greenspan is scheduled to step down.

The Fed's vote to raise interest rates and signal its intention of continuing to raise rates came in a unanimous vote.

While some Fed policymakers think the notion of removing policy accommodation is stale, the current outlook retains majority support among the committee.

At 4 per cent, the federal funds rate is no longer obviously a long way below the so-called "neutral" level where monetary policy neither restricts nor stimulates the economy.

The Fed has maintained the same language as it has raised its target rate by 300 basis points from 1 per cent. Adding to recent data backing the Fed's view that the expansion remains strong the Institute for Supply Management said its index of manufacturing activity remained upbeat. Respondents said that production, new orders and employment rose.

But the prices paid index rose from 84 from 78 in September as energy costs jumped.

Separately, the Commerce Department said that construction spending rose 0.5 per cent in September to a new record level of an annualised Dollars 1,120bn, led by increased residential spending. 
   RF20051102L106.098   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTFT000020051102e1b20001w  



 SEFT MARKETS   HDFed action leaves equities unmoved GLOBAL OVERVIEW.   BYBy DAVE SHELLOCK    WC422 words   PD2 November 2005   SNFinancial Times   SCFTFT   EDLondon Ed1   PGPage 46   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2005 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPA widely expected rise in US interest rates yesterday had little initial impact on Wall Street as investors scrutinised the accompanying comments from the Federal Reserve.

The US central bank voted unanimously to raise its target funds rate from 3.75 per cent to 4 per cent, the 12th consecutive quarter-point increase, and it made only minor changes to its statement.
   TDThe Fed once again concluded that its monetary policy stance remained accommodative - indicating that further rate rises were needed - and that this "accommodation" would be removed "at a pace that is likely to be measured."

"For the markets, the wording was largely predictable," said Alan Ruskin, research director at 4Cast. "The inclusion of the 'accommodation' and 'measured' language is all very consistent with continued 25 basis points rate hikes at each of the next two meetings at least."

Earlier in the day, expectations of further rate rises were reinforced by the release of stronger-than-forecast US manufacturing data.

In midafternoon trade in New York, the Dow Jones Industrial Average and the S&P 500 were both down 0.1 per cent. The technology-heavy Nasdaq Composite index was 0.2 per cent lower following disappointing third quarter sales figures from computer maker Dell.

European stocks managed to edge higher but there was air of tiredness in the markets following Monday's wave of merger and acquisition activity. The FTSE Eurofirst 300 index inched up 0.1 per cent to 1,201.29.

In Asia, Tokyo hit fresh highs in spite of a systems failure that allowed only 90 minutes of trading. The Nikkei 225 Average rose 1.9 per cent to a 4 1/2-year high, while the broader Topix index climbed 2 per cent to a fresh five-year peak.

The dollar remained near to a two-year high against the yen in the wake of the Fed rate rise and the ISM data as investors continued to focus on interest rate differentials between the US and Japan. Few observers expect any increase in Japanese rates in the near future.

The euro, meanwhile, had a steadier session after sliding nearly 1 per cent against the dollar on Monday, although a strong reading on the eurozone purchasing managers' index did little to persuade investors that the European Central Bank would raise rates this week.

Oil prices inched higher, but the benchmark West Texas Intermediate for December delivery stayed below Dollars 60 a barrel. 
   RF20051102L146.065   NSm11 : Equity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTFT000020051102e1b200053  



 HDLooking to control inflation, Fed boosts interest rates again     BYBy JEANNINE AVERSA     CRAP Economics Writer   WC728 words   PD1 November 2005   ET23:57   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2005.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.  
   LPWASHINGTON (AP) - It's now an even dozen interest rate increases at the Fed.  

Outgoing Chairman Alan Greenspan and his Federal Reserve colleagues voted unanimously Tuesday to boost a key interest rate by a quarter-point -- the 12th such increase since June 2004, when the Fed's rate-raising campaign began. The rate that banks charge each other is now 4 percent, the highest in more than four years.  
   TDAnd the Fed indicated further modest increases are likely in coming months to fend off inflation.  

In response, commercial banks began increasing their prime lending rate by a corresponding amount, to 7 percent, also the highest in more than four years. These rates are used for many short-term consumer loans, including certain credit cards and popular home equity lines of credit.  

Wall Street shrugged -- the Dow Jones industrials closed down 33.30 points.  

"The cumulative rise in energy and other costs have the potential to add to inflation pressures," the Fed said in a brief statement after the meeting.  

Fed policy-makers suggested they are more concerned about the prospects of an inflation flare-up than the economy suffering a serious slowdown from the hurricanes that ravaged the Gulf Coast.  

"Elevated energy prices and hurricane-related disruptions in economic activity have temporarily depressed" production and employment, but "planned rebuilding in the hurricane-affected areas" will likely help energize the economy going forward, the Fed said.  

"I think the Fed made pretty clear that Katrina and Rita won't have long-lasting negative consequences," said James Feyrer, economics professor at Dartmouth College.  

Looking ahead, additional rate increases can proceed "at a pace that is likely to be measured," the Fed said. Analysts view this as meaning further quarter-point increases can be expected.  

"The message is that they are not done. They still feel the threat of potential inflation is out there in the economy, and that means they have more work to do," said Stuart Hoffman, chief economist at PNC Financial Services Group.  

With the Fed slowly making it more expensive to borrow, Americans' appetites for big-ticket goods likes cars and homes could be moderated so that overall economic activity can move ahead at a pace that won't aggravate inflation pressures.  

Many economists are predicting the Fed will boost rates at its next session, on Dec. 13, as well as on Jan. 31, which will be Greenspan's last meeting. Some analysts also are calling for another rate increase on March 28, which would be the first presided over by Ben Bernanke, President Bush's choice to replace Greenspan.  

A former Fed governor, Bernanke is chairman of the White House's Council of Economic Advisers. His nomination is subject to Senate approval, which is expected.  

Bernanke has said his first priority will be to maintain continuity with Greenspan's policies. Fed watchers say that means inflation-fighting will keep playing a prominent role.  

A rapid pickup in inflation, if not blunted by other economic forces, can erode workers' paychecks and drive up business costs. If inflation is bad enough, it can short-circuit economic growth.  

Some economists believe the Fed's key rate could rise to 5 percent by the spring or early summer. That would put the prime rate at 8 percent and would likely prompt the Fed to take a break for a while.  

High energy prices, worsened by hurricanes Katrina and Rita, have fanned inflation worries. Consumer prices soared by 1.2 percent in September, the biggest increase in a quarter-century. The main culprit is a 12 percent jump in energy prices.  

Oil prices briefly shot up past $70 a barrel in late August, and gasoline prices topped $3 a gallon before moderating. But home heating costs are expected to be much higher this winter than a year ago.  

So far, "core" consumer prices -- which exclude food and energy -- have behaved well. That indicates high energy expenses are not filtering into the costs of a wide variety of goods and services. In September, core prices, which the Fed watches closely, nudged up by just 0.1 percent.  

Because core prices remain fairly tame, the Fed can stick with its gradual approach to raising rates, policy-makers said.  

------  

On the Net:  

Federal Reserve:  http://www.federalreserve.gov/ 
   RF7   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagdsp | sel----- | catw   IPDAP National News | Washington | Fed Interest Rates | D8DJV61G1   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020051101e1b10010b  



 HDHigher Borrowing Costs Expected     BYBy JEANNINE AVERSA     CRAP Economics Writer   WC782 words   PD31 October 2005   ET20:36   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2005.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.  
   LPWASHINGTON (AP) - Americans' borrowing costs probably will climb in the months ahead as the Federal Reserve seeks to prevent high energy prices from causing a broader bout of inflation.  

Although Alan Greenspan's 18-year run at the central bank ends on Jan. 31, the next chairman is expected to follow a similar approach to monetary policy. That means inflation-fighting would keep playing a prominent role.  
   TDA former Fed governor, Ben Bernanke, is President Bush's nominee to lead the Fed. Bernanke, 51, is chairman of the White House's Council of Economic Advisers.  

"My first priority will be to maintain continuity with the policies and policy strategies established during the Greenspan years," Bernanke said last week when the president announced his selection.  

If Senate confirmation goes smoothly, as expected, Bernanke could take over on Feb. 1.  

The Fed, under Greenspan or Bernanke, "won't stop raising interest rates until it feels inflation has been arrested," said Stuart Hoffman, chief economist at PNC Financial Services Group. "The Fed will want to see that inflation pressures are in fact diminishing."  

In fact, the next increase is expected Tuesday. Many economists are betting that Fed policy-makers will lift an important short-term interest rate by one-quarter of a percentage point, to 4 percent.  

High energy prices, worsened by hurricanes Katrina and Rita, have fanned inflation worries. Consumer prices soared by 1.2 percent in September, the biggest increase in a quarter-century. The main culprit is a 12 percent jump in energy prices.  

Oil prices briefly shot up past $70 a barrel in late August, and gasoline prices topped $3 a gallon before moderating. But home heating costs are expected to be much higher this winter than a year ago.  

So far, "core" consumer prices -- which exclude food and energy -- have behaved well. That indicates high energy expenses are not filtering into the costs of a wide variety of goods and services. In September, core prices, which are closely watched by the Fed, nudged up by just 0.1 percent.  

Despite high energy prices, consumers and businesses boosted spending in the third quarter, helping the overall economy grow at a 3.8 percent pace.  

With the economy proving sturdy despite the hurricanes' damage, economists predict the Fed's rate-raising campaign will move ahead.  

"Fed members are worried about inflation. To raise the fears of inflation is in effect telling us they are going to continue to raise interest rates. Probably not just once more but repeatedly," said Ken Mayland, president of ClearView Economics.  

If that trend continues on Tuesday, it would be the 12th such increase to the federal funds rate since the Fed began to tighten credit in June 2004. The funds rate -- the interest banks charge each other on overnight loans -- is the Fed's main tool to influence economic activity.  

Commercial banks would be expected to increase their prime lending rates by a corresponding amount, to 7 percent. These rates are used for many short-term consumer loans, including certain credit cards and popular home equity lines of credit.  

Borrowing costs then would reach their highest level in more than four years.  

Looking beyond Tuesday's meeting, economists offered different scenarios about how further rate increases could unfold.  

Some analysts predict the Fed will boost rates on Dec. 13 and Jan. 31, which is Greenspan's last meeting. Others say rate increases will come at one -- but not both -- of those meetings.  

It's expected that Bernanke's first meeting as chairman would be on March 28.  

"I think the new chairman will be more aggressive in tightening policy, at least early on in his term, just to establish his inflation-fighting credentials," said Mark Zandi, chief economist at Economy.com.  

A rapid pickup in inflation, if not blunted by other economic forces, can erode workers' paychecks and drive up business costs. If inflation is bad enough, it can short-circuit economic growth.  

Some economists believe the funds rate could rise as high as 5 percent by the spring or early summer of 2006. That would put the prime rate at 8 percent. Then the Fed would move to the sidelines for a while.  

Rising borrowing costs, creeping inflation, higher energy bills, destruction from the hurricanes, worries about a housing boom that could suddenly go bust and the jobs situation are dragging down consumer confidence.  

The economy lost 35,000 jobs in September, the first drop in two years, mostly reflecting the blow of Katrina. Most analysts, however, expect the weakness in jobs to be short-lived.  

------  

On the Net:  

Federal Reserve:  http://www.federalreserve.gov/ 
   RF7   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagpf0apon | sel----- | catf | 1310   IPDFinancial/Business | Fed Interest Rates | D8DJ74R00   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020051031e1av002gz  



 HDHigher borrowing costs expected as U.S. Fed seeks to restrain inflation     BYBy JEANNINE AVERSA     CRAP Economics Writer   WC792 words   PD31 October 2005   ET19:45   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2005.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.  
   LPWASHINGTON (AP) - Domestic borrowing costs probably will climb in the months ahead as the Federal Reserve seeks to prevent high energy prices from causing a broader bout of inflation.  

Although Alan Greenspan's 18-year run at the central bank ends on Jan. 31, the next chairman is expected to follow a similar approach to monetary policy. That means inflation-fighting would keep playing a prominent role.  
   TDA former Fed governor, Ben Bernanke, is President George W. Bush's nominee to lead the Fed. Bernanke, 51, is chairman of the White House's Council of Economic Advisers.  

"My first priority will be to maintain continuity with the policies and policy strategies established during the Greenspan years," Bernanke said last week when the president announced his selection.  

If Senate confirmation goes smoothly, as expected, Bernanke could take over on Feb. 1.  

The Fed, under Greenspan or Bernanke, "won't stop raising interest rates until it feels inflation has been arrested," said Stuart Hoffman, chief economist at PNC Financial Services Group. "The Fed will want to see that inflation pressures are in fact diminishing."  

In fact, the next increase is expected Tuesday. Many economists are betting that Fed policy-makers will lift an important short-term interest rate by one-quarter of a percentage point, to 4 percent.  

High energy prices, worsened by hurricanes Katrina and Rita, have fanned inflation worries. Consumer prices soared by 1.2 percent in September, the biggest increase in a quarter-century. The main culprit is a 12 percent jump in energy prices.  

Oil prices briefly shot up past $70 a barrel in late August, and gasoline prices topped $3 a gallon before moderating. But home heating costs are expected to be much higher this winter than a year ago.  

So far, "core" consumer prices -- which exclude food and energy -- have behaved well. That indicates high energy expenses are not filtering into the costs of a wide variety of goods and services. In September, core prices, which are closely watched by the Fed, nudged up by just 0.1 percent.  

Despite high energy prices, consumers and businesses boosted spending in the third quarter, helping the overall economy grow at a 3.8 percent pace.  

With the economy proving sturdy despite the hurricanes' damage, economists predict the Fed's rate-raising campaign will move ahead.  

"Fed members are worried about inflation. To raise the fears of inflation is in effect telling us they are going to continue to raise interest rates. Probably not just once more but repeatedly," said Ken Mayland, president of ClearView Economics.  

If that trend continues on Tuesday, it would be the 12th such increase to the federal funds rate since the Fed began to tighten credit in June 2004. The funds rate -- the interest banks charge each other on overnight loans -- is the Fed's main tool to influence economic activity.  

Commercial banks would be expected to increase their prime lending rates by a corresponding amount, to 7 percent. These rates are used for many short-term consumer loans, including certain credit cards and popular home equity lines of credit.  

Borrowing costs then would reach their highest level in more than four years.  

Looking beyond Tuesday's meeting, economists offered different scenarios about how further rate increases could unfold.  

Some analysts predict the Fed will boost rates on Dec. 13 and Jan. 31, which is Greenspan's last meeting. Others say rate increases will come at one -- but not both -- of those meetings.  

It's expected that Bernanke's first meeting as chairman would be on March 28.  

"I think the new chairman will be more aggressive in tightening policy, at least early on in his term, just to establish his inflation-fighting credentials," said Mark Zandi, chief economist at Economy.com.  

A rapid pickup in inflation, if not blunted by other economic forces, can erode workers' paychecks and drive up business costs. If inflation is bad enough, it can short-circuit economic growth.  

Some economists believe the funds rate could rise as high as 5 percent by the spring or early summer of 2006. That would put the prime rate at 8 percent. Then the Fed would move to the sidelines for a while.  

Rising borrowing costs, creeping inflation, higher energy bills, destruction from the hurricanes, worries about a housing boom that could suddenly go bust and the jobs situation are dragging down consumer confidence.  

The economy lost 35,000 jobs in September, the first drop in two years, mostly reflecting the blow of Katrina. Most analysts, however, expect the weakness in jobs to be short-lived.  

------  

On the Net:  

Federal Reserve:  http://www.federalreserve.gov/ 
   RF7   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagpf1wcat | sel----- | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | NA FIN ECO US Fed Interest Rates | D8DJ6CR0B   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020051031e1av002hh  



 HDPOLL-Fed rate hikes through Jan seen a sure thing     BYBy Victoria Thieberger     WC623 words   PD1 November 2005   ET23:28   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2005 Reuters Limited  
   LP NEW YORK, Nov 1 (Reuters) - Wall Street's top economists expect the Federal Reserve to keep pushing interest rates higher, at least till the end of Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan's tenure in January, a Reuters poll found on Tuesday.  
   TD The Fed raised official rates on Tuesday for the 12th time since mid-2004 and hinted at further tightening ahead to prevent higher inflation from spreading across the economy.  

 A Reuters poll taken after the announcement of Tuesday's rate hike found 20 of the 21 top bond dealers on Wall Street expect another rate rise at the Dec. 13 Fed policy meeting.  

 That is a substantial shift from the last Fed poll taken on Oct. 7, when eight economists expected the Fed to take a holiday pause in December.  

 "We expect growth to remain upbeat, or solid at least, and core inflation will likely continue to head higher in the months ahead and that will keep the Fed raising rates," said Bear Stearns senior economist Conrad De Quadros.  

 He also pointed out that the lack of substantial changes in the Fed's statement on its interest rate decision on Tuesday suggested there will be no significant new message from Greenspan on Thursday when he gives testimony to Congress.  

 The federal funds rate stands at 4.0 percent after Tuesday's move.  

 MORE INFLATION WORRIES  

 The U.S. economy shook off the after-effects of hurricanes Katrina and Rita to post stronger-than-expected growth of 3.8 percent in the third quarter, led by strong spending by consumers and the government.  

 A steady beat of speeches by Fed officials in recent weeks has raised market expectations of further rate increases, and taking this together with Tuesday's statement, most economists are convinced another move in December at least is baked in the cake.  

"It's pretty clear after (stronger than expected) third quarter GDP numbers they are going to hike in December, and the odds of a hike in January are rising, but they could still take a pause in January if core inflation doesn't heat up," said CIBC World Markets senior economist Avery Shenfeld. He previously expected the Fed to pause in December.  

 Economists who are predicting a pause in the New Year at Greenspan's last meeting as chairman are also forecasting a substantial slowdown in consumer spending towards the end of the year, as higher gasoline and home heating costs really begin to bite.  

 The Reuters poll found 17 economists expect a Fed tightening in January, while four expect a pause.  

 But there is much more debate about the March 28 meeting, which will also be the first chaired by Greenspan's successor Ben Bernanke. The survey found 12 economists expecting another rate rise, and nine seeing no move.  

 That is because with the federal funds rate getting closer to the "neutral" zone the central bank has said it is aiming for, it is not clear how much outright tightening Fed officials believe will be needed.  

 After Tuesday's announcement, futures markets increased the chances of a hike in January to 84 percent from 80 percent, and for the March meeting to 54 percent from 44 percent.  

 "The underlying theme (in the Fed's statement) is the same but the Fed added the statement on the potential for higher inflation risks in order to reassure global investors that the Fed very much remains committed to pursuing price stability," said John Lonski, chief economist at Moody's Investors Service.   (For details of the Reuters poll, click on         [nNYH000063])       
   RFECONOMY-FED (POLL)|LANGEN|ABN|C|D|E|M|O|U|MTL|GRO|SOF|OIL   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1102 : Money Supply | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | gvexe : Executive Branch | m15 : Derivative Securities | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | usny : New York | namz : North America | use : Northeast U.S.   IPCFED | INT | MCE | WASH | GVD | DBT | PLCY | STIR | DRV | ECI | EMBG:DBT | EMBG:PLCY   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument LBA0000020051101e1b100235  



 HDWRAPUP 1-Investors cut stocks for cash, some flee euro zone     BYBy Jeremy Gaunt, European Investment Correspondent     WC743 words   PD31 October 2005   ET13:00   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2005 Reuters Limited  
   LPLONDON, Oct 31 (Reuters) - Investors trimmed stocks in October and generally tucked into safer cash as concerns over slowing economic growth and rising interest rates undermined risk appetite, Reuters polls showed on Monday.  

U.S. and continental investors also sharply cut their exposure to euro zone bonds and stocks, both of which have been popular allocations so far this year.  
   TDSurveys of 43 leading investment firms in the United States, Japan, continental Europe and Britain showed an average holding of 60.7 percent of assets in equities, down from 61.2 percent a month earlier.  

Cash holdings climbed to 4.7 percent from 4.1 percent, a typical move when investors are uncertain about the future.  

The story for bonds, meanwhile, was mixed with British and continental European managers cutting exposure, U.S. investors buying debt and Japanese firms holding pat.  

Overall, bond holdings rose slightly to 32.2 percent from 32.0 percent.  

"We are scratching our heads about inflation as that is the big question market out there which is holding back equities and pushing up bond yields," said Franz Wenzel, senior strategist for AXA Investment Managers in Paris.  

October was dominated for investors by concerns that central banks would react to signs of inflation by raising interest rates either earlier or higher than expected.  

The U.S. Federal Reserve, for example, has shown no sign that it intends to pause in its tightening cycle as a result of hurricane damage in the U.S. Gulf region, while the European Central Bank has becoming increasingly hawkish.  

The latter is one reason that European investors cut euro zone bond holdings to 50.9 percent of their global bond portfolios from 57.9 percent. U.S. investors cut exposure to 12.9 percent from 15.5 percent.  

Caution about the euro zone also spilled over into stocks. Continental European investors cut euro zone stock holding to 24.8 percent from 31.0 percent while U.S. investors moved to 11.6 percent from 14.5 percent.  

The overall findings of the Reuters polls match those of various other recent surveys that have suggested a sharp rise in risk aversion. Major stock markets reflected this with losses in October such as the 3.16 percent decline in MSCI's world index.  

REGIONS  

U.S. fund managers slightly raised their holdings of bonds and cash at the expense of equities, although exposure to stocks remained high.  

The U.S. poll showed allocations of 67.1 percent in equities, down from 68.2 percent in September.  

Bond exposure was slightly higher at 27.2 percent compared with September's 25.4 percent while cash allocation rose to 4.1 percent from 3.3 percent.  

European fund managers cut bond holdings, particularly those in the euro zone where interest rate expectations have been rising.  

The poll showed that managers held 50.6 percent exposure to equities, unchanged from September but bond allocations shifted to 40.4 percent from 40.7 percent and cash rose to 3.9 percent from 3.3 percent.  

Japanese investors also reduced their stocks weightings, particularly U.S. equities.  

The monthly survey showed investors' allocations for stocks in their global portfolios dipped to 52.3 percent in October from 52.9 percent in September.  

The overall weighting for bonds was unchanged from the previous month at 42.4 percent, while the cash position climbed to 5.3 percent from 4.7 percent, reflecting investors' risk-averse stance.  

British fund managers switched to cash away from bonds and stocks.  

The October survey showed the average bond exposure down at 18.9 percent in October from 19.4 percent in September and 20.3 percent in August.  

Cash holdings rose to 5.6 in October percent from 5.0 percent in September and equity exposure was lower at 72.6 percent from 73.0 percent.  

To see other items in this series, click on:  

[US/ASSET] - Reuters U.S.-based asset allocation survey  

[GB/ASSET] - Reuters UK-based asset allocation survey  

[JP/ASSET] - Reuters Japan-based asset allocation survey  

[EUR/ASSET] - Reuters Continental Europe-based asset allocation survey (Additional reporting by Natalie Harrison, Pratima Desai and Tom Burroughes in London and Akiko Ishiwata in Tokyo)  
   RFFINANCIAL-FUNDS (WRAPUP 1)|LANGEN|ABN|M|E|RBN|D|U|UKI|NAT|J|ABX|BNX|FUN|RNP|DNP|PTD   INibcs : Business/Consumer Services   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | m11 : Equity Markets | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m16 : Fund Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ntop : Dow Jones/Reuters Top Wire News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REeurz : Europe | jap : Japan | uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | weurz : Western Europe | asiaz : Asia | easiaz : Eastern Asia | eecz : European Union Countries | namz : North America   IPCFIN | FUND | STX | INT | MCE | GVD | DBT | NEWS | EMBG:DBT   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument LBA0000020051031e1av0014f  



 HDU.S. mortgage bonds flat as buying offsets supply     BYBy Julie Haviv     WC379 words   PD31 October 2005   ET17:06   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2005 Reuters Limited  
   LP(Updates prices, market activity)  

NEW YORK, Oct 31 (Reuters) - Yield spreads on U.S. mortgage-backed securities ended flat against comparable Treasuries on Monday as month-end index-related buying managed to offset moderate supply.  
   TD"If it weren't for the month-end buying, mortgages would have closed wider," said Arthur Frank, director of MBS research at Nomura Securities International.  

Originators sold less than $1 billion, he said.  

The mortgage market lacks conviction due to uncertainty about the direction of rates and how they might translate in terms of total returns.  

Direction in the mortgage bond market may become clearer after the Federal Reserve's monetary policy meeting on Tuesday.  

The Fed is widely expected to raise short-term interest rates for a 12th consecutive time to 4 percent at the conclusion of its meeting.  

Of particular interest will be the central bank's post-meeting message and any hints of a change to its current stance.  

Active 15- and 30-year mortgage-backed securities were 2/32 lower to 2/32 higher. Bond equivalent yields on 30-year 5.5-percent coupon MBS ranged from 5.550 percent to 5.780 percent, 0.006 percentage point to 0.012 percentage point lower from late Friday.  

Benchmark 10-year Treasury notes <US10YT=RR> were 1/32 higher at 97-17/32 to yield 4.563 percent. Yields, which move inversely to price, fell from Friday's 4.575 percent.  

MBS underperformed for much of October and are on pace to lag interest rate swaps by 30 basis points, according to JP Morgan.  

The company's mortgage index is now negative year-to-date excess returns versus swaps. Returns on mortgage bonds have also lagged Treasuries year-to-date, JP Morgan said in research published Friday.  

Intraday tightening would rarely last more than a few hours due to heavy long positions on the Street, the company said.  

But despite the market's poor performance, JP Morgan is turning tactically neutral due to a more positive view of the sector. However, it is avoiding an overweight until the overhang of supply is fully absorbed.  
   RFMARKETS-MORTGAGES (UPDATE 1)|LANGEN|Table|ABN|E|RBN|U|D|M   COnomsec : Nomura Holdings Inc   INi814 : Banking | i831 : Financial Investments | i83101 : Investment Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | iinv : Investing/Securities   NSe1122 : Mortgage Applications/Refinancing | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCMTG | DBT | INT | MCE | AGN | STIR | CPX | MTG/ | EMBG:DBT   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument LBA0000020051031e1av001pm  



 HDANALYSIS-Fed focus on energy prices a clear hawkish hint     BYBy Alister Bull     WC744 words   PD2 November 2005   ET23:35   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2005 Reuters Limited  
   LPWASHINGTON, Nov 2 (Reuters) - Federal Reserve emphasis on the "cumulative" rise of energy prices in its latest statement is a hawkish hint for future rate hikes as it ponders how much higher borrowing costs must go, analysts said on Wednesday.  

In a statement that purposefully reverted to the formulaic, boilerplate language that the U.S. central bank had used prior to hurricanes Katrina and Rita, the Fed raised rates by a quarter percentage point to 4.0 percent on Tuesday.  
   TDIt also repeated an assurance that its policy accommodation would be removed at a measured pace. This all-but guarantees another quarter point hike in December and probably another in January, but gave no sign the Fed was inclined to stop there.  

One of the few things that was new in the statement was the Fed's warning that "the cumulative rise in energy and other costs have the potential to add to inflation pressures."  

Energy prices had in fact declined in the six weeks since the Fed's previous gathering. But the U.S. central bank's focus on the longer-run trend of energy costs was a telling decision to place more weight on keeping inflation-expectations at bay.  

"They highlighted the long-term rise and not the recent decline," said Dean Maki, chief U.S. economist at Barclays Capital in New York. "Their concern about core inflation's potential to increase has not been eased by the recent decline in energy prices," he said.  

Former Fed Board Governor Lyle Gramley agreed.  

"They had to say something to take into account the fact that energy prices had declined. They were referring to the longer-run increase that preceded it," he said.  

5.0 PERCENT PEAK  

Fed policymakers have stressed that keeping inflation expectations under control is the cornerstone of their strategy to avoid the mistakes of the 1970s oil-price shock. Then, they found excuses not to raise rates and later had to push them up aggressively after inflation spiraled higher.  

Interest rate futures currently price a roughly 50 percent probability the Fed will hike again on March 28, taking rates to 4.75 percent. This would be Ben Bernanke's first policy meeting if confirmed as Chairman Alan Greenspan's successor. Greenspan plans to retire after the Fed meeting of Jan. 31.  

Some analysts see them pushing higher, to 5.0 percent, unless U.S. growth falters under the weight of higher energy prices, of which there is no sign yet, or the housing market finally softens in the face of rising interest rates.  

But the decision to change very little of the statement's crucial language underscores the Fed's dilemma as rates approach neutral - the theoretical level at which Fed policy nether stimulates or hinders economic activity.  

"They once again delayed a change in the key language which they need to do to set up the market for an eventual pause. They kept their measured language and accommodative term," said Mickey Levy, chief economist at Bank of America in New York.  

"They've done a spectacular job. The issue here is how do they continue to be transparent and how do they signal to the market what they are going to do," he said. "That's the problem with using this type of language."  

A big danger for the Fed is sending confusing signals to the market on the future direction of policy by tinkering with the policy statement, when it is itself unsure how much higher interest rates have to rise.  

It has repeatedly said that it would respond to changes in the data, and markets currently bet its assessment of robust growth and contained inflation remains safe.  

Some see the change of chairman as an opportunity to remove parts of the statement that continue to commit the Fed to policy action beyond the Greenspan era into Bernanke's term.  

"I do think we are getting closing with each passing meeting to the day the release has to be restructured in very significant ways," said Gramley.  

"As we get closer to where their perception of the neutral rate is, the less likely it is that they will want to retain the measured pace language. My guess is that they are going to wipe the slate clean before Bernanke takes over," he said.  
   RFECONOMY-FED-LANGUAGE (ANALYSIS)|LANGEN|ABN|E|RBN|D|M   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe1102 : Money Supply | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCFED | CEN | MCE | GVD | DBT | INT | STIR | PLCY | EMBG:DBT | EMBG:PLCY   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument LBA0000020051102e1b20027r  



 HDU.S. Fed starts policy meeting, rate hike on tap     WC191 words   PD1 November 2005   ET15:01   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2005 Reuters Limited  
   LPWASHINGTON, Nov 1 (Reuters) - U.S. Federal Reserve policy-makers began a meeting on Tuesday that economists expect will yield a 12th straight interest-rate hike to keep consumer prices tame in the face of rising energy costs.  

The central bank's rate-setting Federal Open Market Committee began meeting at 9 a.m. EST (1400 GMT) as scheduled, a Fed official said. A decision on interest rates is expected around 2:15 p.m. (1915 GMT), together with the U.S. central bank's analysis of economic conditions and the level of policy accommodation.  
   TDThere was unanimous agreement among economists surveyed earlier this month by Reuters that the Federal Open Market Committee will agree to push the trend-setting federal funds rate up another quarter percentage point to 4 percent.  

Since the last FOMC meeting on Sept. 20, most comments from Fed officials have carried a hawkish tone and key gauges of the economy have generally -- if not universally -- implied steady growth.  
   RFECONOMY-FED-MEETING|LANGEN|ABN|C|D|E|M|O|U|MTL|GRO|SOF|OIL   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe1102 : Money Supply | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ntop : Dow Jones/Reuters Top Wire News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCWAS | FED | CEN | MCE | INT | STIR | PLCY | DBT | GVD | NEWS | EMBG:DBT | EMBG:PLCY   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument LBA0000020051101e1b100158  



 HDGLOBAL ECONOMY-Factory activity at highest in over a year     BYBy Mike Dolan, Economics Correspondent     WC900 words   PD1 November 2005   ET20:11   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2005 Reuters Limited  
   LP (Adds Fed rate rise, paragraphs 19 and 20)  
   TD WASHINGTON, Nov 1 (Reuters) - Manufacturers in Europe, Japan and United States signaled the fastest growth in world industrial activity in over a year last month, overcoming concerns that soaring energy and raw material costs would hobble factory output.  

 Price pressures, both input costs and prices received by manufacturers, continued to build during October, monthly business surveys from all three regions showed on Tuesday.  

 With robust output growth and rising employment, these latest manufacturing readings are expected to give even more ammunition to central banks increasingly concerned about rising inflation and the need for higher interest rates.  

 A global Purchasing Managers Index (PMI), compiled by JP Morgan from national and regional surveys of thousands of firms worldwide, climbed to its high level since September 2004.  

 "It is impressive that the PMI held on to the outsized gain from September, considering the cost pressure and the uncertainty created by the surge in energy prices," said David Hensley, head of global economics coordination at JPMorgan.  

 The global PMI rose to 54.9 in October from 54.7 previously. A reading above 50 shows expansion of the sector.  

 Slight dips in output and new orders growth were offset by an acceleration in factory employment and input prices.  

 Hensley said October readings were consistent with global industrial production growth at a 6 percent annualized rate.  

 And the strength of manufacturing was broadly spread across the developed world.  

 Euro zone factories reported output growth at its fastest in 13 months. Japanese firms notched up a 14-month high.  

 And, despite record domestic fuel costs in the wake of two major hurricanes, U.S. manufacturers sustained most of September's surge in activity -- the biggest one-month gain in more than two decades.  

 U.S. factories are still motoring at a faster rate than the other two regions and a marginal slowdown in growth in October confounded Wall St expectations for a deeper pullback.  

 Only China's manufacturers showed signs of spluttering, raising questions about how stagnant manufacturing growth seen in these surveys squares with official statistics showing the national economy growing in excess of 9 percent per annum.  

 PRICE PRESSURES  

 With financial markets increasingly nervous about the risks of rising inflation, many analysts focused on price pressures reported in the surveys. The global input price index jumped to 68.5 from 65.6, for example.  

 In the United States, where the energy shock was sharpest last month, the Institute for Supply Management said it members reported the prices they pay for goods jumped six points to 84 -- just off the cyclical high of 88 seen in April 2004.  

 Apart from energy costs, this reflected rising prices of aluminum, chemicals, freight, steel and sugar.  

 The overall index of activity edged down to 59.1 from 59.4 in September but employment growth rose to 55 from 53.1.  

 "This is undoubtedly a strong growth report, coupled with ongoing price pressures that will keep the Fed talking in hawkish terms on the threat of inflation," said Ian Morris, chief U.S. economist at HSBC in New York.  

 The U.S. Federal Reserve raised interest rates by another quarter of a percentage point to 4.0 percent on Tuesday - the 12th such rise since mid-2004.  

 In an accompanying statement, the Fed indicated there were further rate rises to come. It said core inflation and inflation expectations remained "contained" but the cumulative rise in energy and other costs have the potential to add to inflation pressures.  

 Elsewhere, strong global demand boosted exports from the euro zone and Britain and pushed up manufacturing activity.  

 The euro zone PMI climbed one point to a 13-month high of 52.7 in October and output prices rose to a seven-month high of 51.3 -- strengthening the case for the European Central Bank to raise interest rates next month or in early 2006.  

 "This could provide a small additional backing to the idea that the euro zone economy is recovering and therefore might support an early hike," said Lorenzo Codogno, an economist at Bank of America in London.  

 The ECB meets on Thursday amid growing speculation about the timing of an interest rate rise from the current 2 percent, where rates have been for more than two years.  

 Futures markets are betting there's a 60 percent chance of a rate rise by the end of the year.  

 In Japan, buoyant domestic demand pushed up its PMI to 54.7 last month. Output prices inched up to 51.0 from 50.9.  

 This provided more evidence domestic price deflation is coming to an end there and underscored speculation the Bank of Japan could end its ultra-easy monetary policy next year.  

 But in China, the manufacturing sector slowed to near-stagnation of 50.1, according to data provided by CLSA. This reading was the worst in the survey's 19-month history.  

 CLSA economist Eric Fishwick said the data gave the lie to bullish official figures. "In reality, the conditions facing Chinese manufacturers continue to deteriorate," he said.  

 (Additional reporting by Toni Vorobyova in London and Pedro Nicolaci da Costa in New York)     
   RFECONOMY-GLOBAL (WRAPUP 2)|LANGEN|ABN|C|D|E|M|O|U|MTL|GRO|SOF|OIL|G|RBN|ABX|BNX|Z|RNP|DNP   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | eec : European Union | gcat : Political/General News | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ntop : Dow Jones/Reuters Top Wire News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations   REchina : China | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | jap : Japan | uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | weurz : Western Europe | asiaz : Asia | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America   IPCECI | MCE | EU | PLCY | CEN | GVD | DBT | INT | NEWS | EMBG:DBT | EMBG:PLCY   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument LBA0000020051101e1b1001qy  



 HDTEXT-FOMC statement from November 1 meeting      WC323 words   PD1 November 2005   ET20:20   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2005 Reuters Limited   
   LPWASHINGTON (Reuters) - The following is the text of the Federal Open Market Committee's statement on interest rate policy issued at the close of its meeting on Tuesday:   

"The Federal Open Market Committee decided today to raise its target for the federal funds rate by 25 basis points to 4 percent.   
   TDElevated energy prices and hurricane-related disruptions in economic activity have temporarily depressed output and employment. However, monetary policy accommodation, coupled with robust underlying growth in productivity, is providing ongoing support to economic activity that will likely be augmented by planned rebuilding in the hurricane-affected areas. The cumulative rise in energy and other costs have the potential to add to inflation pressures; however, core inflation has been relatively low in recent months and longer-term inflation expectations remain contained.   

The Committee perceives that, with appropriate monetary policy action, the upside and downside risks to the attainment of both sustainable growth and price stability should be kept roughly equal. With underlying inflation expected to be contained, the Committee believes that policy accommodation can be removed at a pace that is likely to be measured. Nonetheless, the Committee will respond to changes in economic prospects as needed to fulfill its obligation to maintain price stability.   

Voting for the FOMC monetary policy action were: Alan Greenspan, Chairman; Timothy F. Geithner, Vice Chairman; Susan S. Bies; Roger W. Ferguson, Jr.; Richard W. Fisher; Donald L. Kohn; Michael H. Moskow; Mark W. Olson; Anthony M. Santomero; and Gary H. Stern.   

In a related action, the Board of Governors unanimously approved a 25-basis-point increase in the discount rate to 5 percent. In taking this action, the Board approved the requests submitted by the Boards of Directors of the Federal Reserve Banks of Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, Minneapolis, Kansas City, Dallas, and San Francisco."   
   RFECONOMY-FED-TEXT|LANGEN|Table|FUN   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument LBA0000020051101e1b1001rf  
 Page 1 of 1      2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.


 

 Page 1      2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.

