 


 HDFT.com site : Market Overview: Gold boosted by weak dollar.   BYDave Shellock    WC610 words   PD9 May 2006   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPThe dollar came under renewed pressure on Tuesday, helping gold advance to a fresh 25-year high, as the markets remained uncertain about what the Federal Reserve will say after Wednesday's meeting of its interest rate-setting open market committee.

The US currency briefly dipped below the Y110 level to touch an eight-month low against the Japanese yen, while the euro moved up to within striking distance of Monday's one-year high of $1.2787.
   TDTreasury bonds were also weaker in the run up to a $21bn auction of three-year notes as investors fretted about the market's ability to take on new supply given the uncertainty about future US rate policy.

Another quarter-point rise in the Fed funds target rate to 5 per cent is considered a certainty by economists. What the markets will be looking for is any hint from the US central bank that it might be ready to take a pause in its tightening cycle.

James Knightley, economist at ING, said the Fed would almost certainly emphasise that economic data would dictate future rate policy.

"In terms of where the Fed goes from here, our base case is that 5 per cent will be the peak in interest rates, although we acknowledge that the risks are to the upside, with the market close to pricing in a peak of 5.25 per cent," Mr Knightley said.

"Nonetheless, recent employment data have been weaker than expected, while higher energy prices seem to be starting to have a negative effect on confidence."

Precious metals had a positive session, with gold creeping closer to the $700 an ounce level. The metal set a new 25-year high of $697, while silver pushed back above $14 but stayed well short of the 23-year peak of $14.68 hit last month.

Platinum, meanwhile, touched a new all-time peak of $1,235 an ounce.

Robin Bhar, metals strategist at UBS, said he believed that platinum had a better fundamental story than gold or silver. "While there is undoubtedly investor and speculative long positions in platinum, the market remains in a fundamental deficit and should remain so for the foreseeable future," he said.

Among base metals, copper and zinc hit all-time highs, while aluminium pushed above $3,000 a tonne for the first time in 18 years.

US crude oil futures climbed back above $71 a barrel amid lingering worries about Iran's nuclear programme.

The US said a letter from the Iranian president to President George W.Bush had failed to settle the nuclear dispute that is now under consideration by the United Nations Security Council.

US equities put in mixed performances, with the Dow Jones Industrial hitting a fresh six-year high but the technology-heavy Nasdaq Composite index fell back after a profits warning from Dell Computer.

By midday in New York, the Dow was up 0.2 per cent and back above 11,600, while the Nasdaq was 0.2 per cent lower. The S&P 500 was 0.1 per cent higher.

But Europe managed a more positive performance. The FTSE Eurofirst 300 index rose 0.4 per cent to 1,405.55, its first close above 1,400 for nearly five years.

Asian stocks were broadly weaker as concerns about regional currency strength unsettled the markets.

In Tokyo, the Nikkei 225 Average slipped 0.6 per cent, while Hong Kong and Taipei both retreated from Monday's 5l-year peaks. South Korean stocks ended lower after touching a record intra-day high in early trade. 
   RF48822903   INi81401 : Central Banking | i831 : Financial Investments | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | iinv : Investing/Securities   NSm11 : Equity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | c33 : Contracts/Orders | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTCOM00020060510e2590002f  



 HDFT.com site : The Short View: Dollar may face a double whammy.   BYPhilip Coggan, Investment Editor    WC400 words   PD9 May 2006   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPWednesday will be an important session for the foreign exchange markets. Not only will the US Federal Reserve announce what might be the last interest rate rise for this cycle but the US Treasury will publish its report on the currency practices of trading partners.

The Fed's statement will be watched closely, as always. But any market reaction may await the Treasury's report just two hours later. Some analysts think there is a real possibility that China could be labelled a currency manipulator.
   TDDavid Woo of Barclays Capital says: "Although this is not the first time the US has threatened to label China as a currency manipulator, there is good reason to think that the threat is more credible, and therefore more real, this time round. The US has secured the implicit backing from its major allies as the latest G7 statement named China explicitly [for the first time] in its call for more currency flexibility."

Mr Woo points out that the US administration may face political pressure to look tough on China, given President George W.?Bush's low ratings and the mid-term Congressional elections in November.

The dollar could face a double whammy if the Fed signals a peak in rates (reducing the US currency's yield attractions) and the Treasury fingers China, threatening a trade war. But there are several potential outcomes.

Mansoor Mohi-uddin of UBS says: "We expect that if the Treasury refrains from labelling China a currency manipulator, then there may be a knee-jerk relief reaction in the US dollar. However, if China is labelled a manipulator, then the US dollar is likely to fall again against all Asian currencies?.?.?.?as the market worries that the US will aim to impose sanctions and China responds by buying fewer US Treasuries."

Ashraf Laidi of MG Financial says that even if the Treasury report does not label China a currency manipulator, the result will be an eventual decline in the dollar "on the rationale that the only reason the Treasury spared China has to be the result of a secret deal or gentleman's agreement".

Such a deal would see China revalue in coming months, at a time when it does not appear to be caving in to US pressure.

philip.coggan@ft.com 
   RF48822923   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSm13 : Money/Forex Markets | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REchina : China | usa : United States | asiaz : Asia | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTCOM00020060510e2590002z  



 HDFT.com site : Dollar falls to one-year lows.   BYNeil Dennis    WC181 words   PD10 May 2006   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPThe dollar slid to one-year lows against the euro, sterling and the Swiss franc on Wednesday, on speculation that the US Federal Reserve would later hint at a pause in its current interest-rate increase cycle.

The US central bank is expected to lift overnight lending rates by a quarter of a percentage point for the 16th consecutive time, taking interest rates to 5 per cent.
   TDBy mid-morning in London, the euro had risen against the greenback to $1.2784, having struck a fresh year-high of $1.2804. Sterling stood at $1.8680, having earlier hit $1.8734.

The dollar fell to Y110.56 against the Japanese yen, off an earlier eight-month low of Y110.53, as speculation mounted that the Bank of Japan might soon start raising interest rates.

There were also concerns that the Japanese authorities were poised to intervene in the foreign exchange market after finance minister Sadakazu Tanigaki said sharp moves were undesirable and that he was closely watching the market. 
   RF48839192   INi81401 : Central Banking | i831 : Financial Investments | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | iinv : Investing/Securities   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | c33 : Contracts/Orders | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter   REswitz : Switzerland | usa : United States | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTCOM00020060511e25a00011  



 HDBull Run -- Behind Surging Stock Market: Old-Fashioned Economic Boom --- Defying Gloomy Predictions, Profits Rise, Prices Don't; Dow's Record Approaches --- The Return of `Goldilocks'   BYBy E.S. Browning    WC2,048 words   PD11 May 2006   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGA1   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 2006, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LPAfter Hurricane Katrina hobbled economic growth late last year and as oil prices soared, many investors thought the economy, corporate profits and the stock market would be running on empty by now.

Instead, an economic rebound has sent corporate profits to an 11th consecutive quarter of double-digit gains, the longest streak since at least the 1950s. Surprisingly strong growth in the economy and corporate profits has shaken stocks out of their doldrums. The Dow Jones Industrial Average is now within sight of its record close.
   TDUnlike the great 1990s bull market, which was sustained by a wave of new technology, this one has the feel of an old-fashioned economic boom, the type investors saw in the 1950s and 1960s. What many thought would be a limited rebound created by Chinese industrial demand has turned into a long-running story as once-unloved sectors such as commodity producers and oil drillers continue to thrive. Helping fuel the U.S. stock surge are once-skeptical investors, who are now funneling money into the market in the hope of getting in on a lengthier boom.

Despite yesterday's 16th consecutive interest-rate increase by the Federal Reserve, the Dow industrials finished at 11642.65, up 2.88 points, just 80.33 points short of the record hit at the height of the technology bubble on Jan. 14, 2000. (Markets often take a short breather in the face of milestone numbers.) After falling a little less than 1% last year, the Dow has risen 8.6% in 2006. In total, it's gained almost 60% since the bear market ended in October 2002 with the blue-chip average at 7286.27.

"The economy continues to surprise people and earnings continue to surprise people," says Charles Mayer, who heads the U.S. money-management team at Pioneer Investments in Boston, where he supervises about $50 billion in investments. "A lot of these stocks still have a lot of strength." He's sticking with oil companies, commodity producers and mining companies, which have powered much of the gain in his funds.

Bearish investors warn that the latest market surge is just a "blowoff" in which stocks make a final push before turning down, perhaps later this year. They point to lurking inflation pressures and worry that the market already is showing signs of age, with fewer and fewer stocks hitting new highs. That means indexes are being driven by an ever-smaller group of companies.

Investors are closely watching whether corporate profits continue to exceed rising expectations, or start to fall short, as they did when the last bear market began in 2000. Notably, both the Standard &Poor's 500-stock index and the Nasdaq Composite Index remain well below their own records because of their heavy exposure to hard-hit technology stocks.

What helped drive stocks higher in the late 1990s was the rise of the Internet and information technology. They combined to boost labor productivity and to spark the market's love affair with technology companies such as Cisco Systems Inc. and Dell Inc.

Today, the stock market is benefiting from something broader: consumer demand at home and powerful economic growth abroad.

A series of developments that skeptics thought would kill the bull market -- resurgent inflation, rising labor costs, falling consumer spending, a collapsing housing market -- haven't materialized. Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke gave investors a boost in late April when he told Congress that surging energy prices have so far failed to bleed into other prices.

While the Fed raised its benchmark overnight lending rate to 5% yesterday, many investors saw the Fed's subsequent statement as an indication that it's prepared to call at least a temporary pause to its rate increases, possibly as soon as its next meeting in late June. Any decision will depend on whether signs of inflation turn up in the economic data.

"You think of how crude oil has gone through $40, $50, $60, now $70" a barrel, says Michael Driscoll, who trades oil stocks at New York brokerage firm Bear Stearns. "Every prognosticator has said that these kinds of oil-price increases are going to force the economy to a grinding halt. It hasn't happened."

Despite other inflation forerunners, such as high gold prices, the falling dollar and rising bond yields, inflation hasn't yet turned into a serious problem. The yield of the benchmark, 10-year Treasury note, which drives other interest rates such as fixed mortgage rates, remains low by past standards even though it jumped to 5.13%, from less than 4% last year.

The situation resembles the Goldilocks economy of the 1990s -- not too hot, not too cold -- with inflation moderate and economic growth downright strong. The annual economic-growth rate hit 4.8% in the first quarter, the fastest pace since 2003. Compensation costs for employers rose only 0.6% in the first quarter, the smallest quarterly gain in nearly seven years.

Despite sluggish wage growth, consumer spending rose at a 5.5% annual rate in the same period. In April, the first month of the new quarter, chain-store sales surpassed expectations, reinforcing the idea that consumer spending remains strong.

Large companies reported first-quarter profit increases of 14%, the 11th consecutive quarter of double-digit gains, according to Thomson Financial, which tracks profit reports. That's the longest streak since Thomson began tracking such data in 1954. The profits reflect both the economy's strength and extensive cost-cutting during the 2000-02 bear market, which left companies more careful about how they spend.

The stock market's ability to keep powering ahead will depend heavily on whether this scenario can be sustained. Despite doubts, some money managers are barreling into small, fast-growing stocks of the kind that have led the market higher. Unlike in the 1990s, the market's leaders aren't big household names such as Intel and Dell, but smaller companies involved in businesses such as mining and industrial equipment.

Market bull Douglas Cote is buying the stocks of companies whose performance is closely tied to economic growth, notably small companies such as JLG Industries Inc., which makes machinery for mines and industry, and Christopher &Banks Corp., a women's clothing retailer.

"The reason I am bullish is that corporate profits continue to defy expectations," says Mr. Cote, who oversees $15 billion at New York money-management group ING Investment Management. "If corporate profits are surging, you should be in the market."

Small stocks tend to be more volatile and less protected from economic vagaries than larger stocks. They're often the first to decline when a bull market peaks. Mr. Cote, however, is convinced that small stocks still have room to rise, even though their indexes have been hitting records for months. By his calculations, analysts' forecasts call for profits at small companies to grow twice as fast as at large ones, something that happens when the economy remains strong.

It is a truism of investing that markets respond not to actual news, but to investors' expectations. Bull markets often begin after recessions when rebounding companies easily exceed expectations. As a bull market matures, expectations rise and the rate of economic progress tends to slow. Bull markets ultimately fail when expectations get so high that corporate performances no longer can surpass them.

Since the start of the 20th century, bull markets have averaged a little more than two years in duration. Some analysts worry that this one, which has been going on for three and a half years, is overdue for at least a 10% pullback.

Others note that bull markets have been getting longer and stronger. The longest since 1900 was the bull market of the 1990s, which ran from late 1990 until early 2000. The current one is the fifth longest, according to Ned Davis Research in Venice, Fla.

Economists and money managers who thought that mundane commodities had no place in an information-age portfolio have been proven wrong. Exxon Mobil's stock has doubled since the middle of 2002 and is up almost 14% this year alone. Its market capitalization is now greater than that of 1990s market-darlings General Electric Co. and Microsoft Corp. Exxon now has a total market value of about $390 billion, the world's largest.

Surging economies in developing countries are helping drive this phenomenon. China and India are running through industrial commodities at unprecedented rates, bolstering the performance of U.S. commodity stocks. Short-term copper futures now trade at six times their 2001 levels and oil and nickel futures have more than quadrupled.

Optimists say this kind of world-wide economic growth is one reason to believe the economy has entered a phase of "secular," or long-running growth, not just a temporary "cyclical" upswing. They also cite the cost-cutting of the last bear market, the changing economics of oil and low interest rates. Many believe the skeptics will continue to be surprised at the strength of the economy, and the market.

"The move in energy, commodities and industrials is a larger secular move than some people give it credit for," says Mr. Mayer of Pioneer Investments.

"To produce $1 of GDP, you use half as much oil as you did in 1964," adds Mr. Cote. "That is because we are transitioning from a manufacturing economy to a service economy and you need a lot less oil in a service economy. Oil isn't going to bring this economic growth to a halt any time soon."

Further supporting the stock run-up, some long-time skeptics recently have thrown in the towel.

For much of the current bull market, Merrill Lynch investment strategist Richard Bernstein urged clients to invest in bonds and stable companies such as food and drug makers that perform better in a slowing economy. He thought aggressive Fed interest-rate increases, aimed at preventing inflation, would hold back the economy. But since late last year, the Fed has been giving ever-stronger indications that it's preparing to halt its interest-rate increases.

"I personally think that the Fed is making a mistake, but who cares" what I think, Mr. Bernstein says. Ultimately, he says, the Fed may be forced to fight inflation by raising rates again, but for now, he wants clients to go where the money is. That means switching to more-speculative stocks that benefit from a strong economy, such as technology, biotech and mid-tier energy companies.

However, some money managers who have been bullish for years are using the rally as an opportunity to take profits. Jon Brorson, head of growth-stock investing at New York money-management firm Neuberger Berman, is paring holdings of the stocks that gave him solid profits in recent years, such as Boeing Co., Murphy Oil Corp., copper-maker Phelps Dodge Corp. and oil refiner Valero Energy Corp.

Low interest rates have pumped huge amounts of what economists call liquidity, or available cash, into the stock market. Mr. Brorson believes it will begin to dry up, producing a stock pullback centering on the biggest recent gainers. Although he sees no signs yet that the economy is slowing, interest-rate increases often take months to show their effects. "I think the Fed eventually will get its man: It will slow the economy down," Mr. Brorson says.

Money manager Steve Leuthold, chairman of Leuthold Weeden Research in Minneapolis, is trying to have it both ways. Since the autumn, he has been cutting his exposure to U.S. and foreign stocks for his main investment fund, figuring that both groups are due for a pullback.

But he kept hold of commodity-related stocks, believing that the commodity boom has more room to run. Even though his fund lost some money because of the collapse of commodity trader Refco Inc., his commodity-related stock investments have soared. That helped push his main investment fund up 15% last year, even though he's been wrong -- so far at least -- about the direction of the overall stock market. 



License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | i831 : Financial Investments | iinv : Investing/Securities   NSm11 : Equity Markets | c1521 : Analyst Comment/Recommendation | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e1101 : Economic Growth | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | npag : Page-One Story | c15 : Performance | c152 : Earnings Projections | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | nanl : Analysis | c21 : Output/Production | reqris : Editor's Choice - Investing/Securities | reqr : Editor's Choice - Industry Trends/Analysis   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCCMR | DJCS | EWR | NRG | PIC | FED | USG | BSC | CYC | ENE | IDU | MMR | NND | PGO | RGT | TPT   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument J000000020060511e25b00035  


 CLMCredit Markets   HDTreasury Prices Are Little Changed --- Market Expects a Pause In  Interest-Rate  Increases As Fed Leaves Options Open   BYBy Laurence Norman and Michael Mackenzie    WC1,096 words   PD11 May 2006   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGC4   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 2006, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LPThe Treasury bond market still believes a pause is coming in the Federal Reserve's tightening campaign, even as the central bank kept its options open.

Along with a quarter-percentage-point increase in the federal-funds rate to 5%, the Federal Open Market Committee kept the idea of another rate increase in June alive, saying "some further policy firming may yet be needed to address inflation risks." It also emphasized that any further rate increases will depend "importantly" on the incoming data.
   TDThe market sold off in an initial response to the statement, and yields -- which move inversely to prices -- rose, as bond investors had pegged the odds of a pause in June around 65% before the FOMC statement was released.

But prices exited from active trade little changed, and the two-year note's yield failed to move beyond the 5% mark.

At 4 p.m., the two-year note was down 1/32, or 31.3 cents per $1,000 face value, at 99 25/32 to yield 4.992%, compared with 4.975% Tuesday. The 10-year note rose 2/32 to 95 7/32 to yield 5.128%.

The odds of a rate increase in June are "now close to fifty-fifty," said Jim Caron, fixed-income strategist at Merrill Lynch &Co. in New York.

That is also reflected in short-term interest-rate futures, which show the odds of a June increase at 44%, compared with 50% odds just after the FOMC statement was published.

Scott Gewirtz, head of Treasury trading at Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in New York, said the statement itself was neutral and that explained the modest nature of the selloff.

"I think they avoided overtly signaling a pause but they left themselves a huge amount of flexibility," Mr. Gewirtz said.

Policy makers also highlighted inflation risks in their statement -- and that was the trigger for the market's biggest move in the wake of the statement's publication -- a flatter yield curve, said Richard Gilhooly, senior interest-rate strategist at BNP Paribas. Longer-term yields are sensitive to inflation expectations, while short-term yields react most to official interest-rate changes.

In recent trade, the yield curve as measured by the difference between two-year and 10-year yields had flattened to 0.13 percentage point, its lowest level since April 26, the day before Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke made his comments about a possible pause in rate increases to Congress.

How far the flattening goes will now be determined by the reception given to today's auction of $13 billion in new 10-year notes. "A good auction will help rally the back end," Mr. Gilhooly said.

In the wake of the Fed's rate move, commercial banks are raising their prime rate to 8% from 7.75%. Many consumer-lending rates, such as interest on credit cards and home-equity loans, are tied to the prime rate.

Municipal Bond

The Government Development Bank for Puerto Rico has delayed today's planned sale of $800 million bonds, a GDB spokeswoman said.

The sale, which would have been the largest this week in the tax-exempt bond market, has been put off at least temporarily because of a downgrade Monday by a major ratings firm of $25 billion of the commonwealth's debt, said spokeswoman Maria Rosario.

The island territory has been in the grips of a fiscal crisis that has partially closed its government, as well as eroded its shaky credit rating and that of the GDB, which has made extensive loans to the government.

Impatient about a budget impasse that has kept the Puerto Rican government in a partial shutdown since May 1, Moody's Investors Service Monday took its rating on the commonwealth's general obligation bonds down one peg to Baa3, the firm's lowest investment-grade rating and just one step above junk-bond status.

It also cut its ratings on Puerto Rico's appropriations debt to Ba1, its highest junk-bond rating. The company said it was keeping Puerto Rico on a watch list for possible further downgrades.

Corporate Bond

Embarq Corp. is shopping a $4.485 billion three-part debt offering this week and investors are already lining up for the deal. A person familiar with the offering said roughly $17 billion in orders have poured in for the offering, which is expected to price this week.

This deal comes after $4 billion in new debt from Abbott Laboratories in the investment-grade market on Tuesday.

Embarq is Sprint Nextel Corp.'s local land-line phone business that is being spun off to Sprint shareholders May 17. It has garnered the lowest possible investment-grade ratings of triple-B-minus from Standard &Poor's, Fitch Ratings and Moody's Investors Service. S&P has a negative outlook on the company, while Fitch and Moody's are stable.

The business has "lots of cash" that is expected to be used to pare down debt, said Eric Geil, credit analyst at S&P. But "beyond the next couple of years, we're really unsure where the business may go," he said. That is because the land-line sector of the telecommunications market is shrinking, while the wireless and cable sectors are expanding.

Yield-starved investors, however, are willing to overlook the gloomy outlook.

GM Bonds Shift Out of Reverse

General Motors Corp.'s bond ratings are on review for yet another downgrade by both Moody's Investors Service and Standard and Poor's, but that hasn't stopped investors from snapping up the debt securities lately.

The company's 8.375% bonds due in 2033 have risen over the past few trading sessions and yesterday hit 76.5 cents on the dollar, representing a yield of about 11%. That is much improved from a low of about 66 cents on the dollar at the end of December 2005, according to data from MarketAxess.

Earlier this week, GM revised its first-quarter results to a profit from a loss effectively ending a five-quarter streak of reported losses.

"We are putting our vote in the constructive outcome column," wrote analyst Glenn Reynolds of independent bond-research firm CreditSights Inc., in a report out late Tuesday, when he raised his rating on GM's bonds to "overweight" from "underweight."

---

Serena Ng contributed to this article. 

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   NSm12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | e1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCCMR | DJCB | EWR | TRE | USG | NCY | NND | TEL | TPX | CRD | MIM   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument J000000020060511e25b00022  



 CLMMonday's Markets   HDDow Inches Up, Less Than 140 From Its Record   BYBy E.S. Browning    WC543 words   PD9 May 2006   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGC1   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 2006, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LPTHE DOW JONES Industrial Average edged up to a fresh six-year high, as investors began biting their fingernails about tomorrow's Federal Reserve interest-rate meeting.

After soaring 138.88 points on Friday, the Dow industrials tacked on an additional 6.80 points, or 0.06%, to finish at 11584.54. The Dow has surged 8.1% this year -- leaving it less than 140 points shy of its record close of 11722.98 on Jan. 14, 2000.
   TDFriday's gains were powered by a soft Labor Department report on April hiring. That sparked hopes that economic growth is moderating, which would ease inflation fears and permit the Fed to stop raising interest rates soon. With Friday's big gain under their belts, and with the Fed meeting on the horizon, investors took a breather yesterday.

"You've got people who are very nervous and waiting to see what [Fed Chairman Ben] Bernanke says," said Tim Smalls, head of U.S. stock trading at Greenwich, Conn., brokerage firm Execution LLC. "Everybody will be very, very cautious" until they see the Fed's post-meeting statement tomorrow afternoon, he added.

Investors widely expect the Fed tomorrow to raise its benchmark short-term lending rate -- its target rate for overnight bank lending -- to 5%, marking the 16th consecutive quarter-point increase since the Fed started raising rates in June 2004. Investors are hoping that the Fed's statement will hint at a coming pause in the rate-increase campaign beginning at the Fed's following meeting, on June 28 and 29, although investors suspect that the Fed also will suggest that it could resume raising rates if inflationary pressures reappear.

The dollar has been falling on the prospect of an end to rate increases, which would make dollars less attractive as investment vehicles. The dollar fell to a 7 1/2-month low against the yen, although it rose against the euro.

Reflecting the stock market's wait-and-see approach, the Dow Jones Transportation Average finished the day unchanged at 4957.91, matching Friday's record finish. The Russell 2000 small-stock index declined slightly.

The Standard &Poor's 500-stock index inched downward from its five-year high hit Friday, falling 0.08%, or 1.10 points, to 1324.66. It still is ahead 6.1% in 2006. The Nasdaq Composite Index rose 0.10%, or 2.42 points, to 2344.99, up 6.3% this year.

Crude-oil futures fell 42 cents to $69.77 a barrel after Iran's president contacted President Bush about their nuclear-weapons dispute.

In major U.S. market action:

Stock and bond prices were mixed. There were 1,672 stocks that rose; 1,615 fell. The 10-year Treasury note fell 2/32, or 63 cents for each $1,000 invested, pushing the yield up to 5.119%. The 30-year bond was up 2/32 to yield 5.190%.

The dollar was mixed. Late in New York, it traded at 111.69 yen, down from 112.49, while the euro fell against the dollar to $1.2706 from $1.2729. 



License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   NSm11 : Equity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | e1202 : Interest Rates | gvtre : Treasury Department | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m131 : Money Markets | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | mntdbt : National Government Debt/Bond Markets | nsum : News Digest | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | gvexe : Executive Branch | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | niwe : IWE Filter   REjap : Japan | usa : United States | asiaz : Asia | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America   IPCPIC | TRE | USG | STT | JPY | NND | TPX | USD | MIM | PMK | TFR | TPT   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument J000000020060509e2590003n  


 CLMAhead of the Tape   HDAhead of the Tape   BYBy Justin Lahart    WC412 words   PD10 May 2006   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGC1   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 2006, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP[Today's Market Forecast]

Fed End
   TDWall Street wants Federal Reserve policy makers to say where interest rates are going next.

The honest answer is, "We don't know." It's an answer Wall Street has a hard time accepting.

When the Fed's Open Market Committee meets today it will in all likelihood lift its overnight target rate to 5% from 4.75%, the 16th quarter-point increase in a row.

Then most economists think the Fed will, for the first time in two years, stand pat when it meets next in late June. Investors agree -- interest-rate futures put the odds of June rate increase at about 40%.

Comments from Fed officials suggest they'd like to hold off on a June increase, taking some time to measure the economy's temperature before considering another move.

That isn't quite the same as saying they will hold off on an increase, says Goldman Sachs economist Ed McKelvey. The idea of a pause is predicated in part on a belief the economy isn't overheating. If the economy doesn't cooperate with that view, there will be more rate increases, sooner rather than later.

Making matters tough for the Fed: Even if the economy -- thanks to high interest rates, high fuel prices and a cooling housing market -- really is slowing, inflation looks to be on the rise. By June, the Fed's preferred measure of inflation will likely be above 2%, the upper bound of what Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke has said he's comfortable with. The last thing he wants is a bond market that finds him soft on inflation.

Investors have grown very accustomed to the Fed signaling to them what's coming next. They're so desperate for an answer now that they're at risk of turning a "may" into a "will," as they did two weeks ago when Mr. Bernanke told Congress that the Fed "may decide to take no action at one or more meetings."

Part of the problem here, says Lehman Brothers economist Ethan Harris, is that many investors are using "Greenspan decoder rings," interpreting Mr. Bernanke's remarks as if they came from the Fed's nuanced former chairman, Alan Greenspan. Maybe "maybe" just means "maybe" when it comes from the new chairman.

---

Please send comments and questions to justin.lahart@wsj.com. 



License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | ecat : Economic News | gvexe : Executive Branch | m11 : Equity Markets | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCPIC | FED | USG | NND | AOT | TFR   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument J000000020060510e25a00020  


 CLMTuesday's Markets   HDDow Rises Again, Nears a Record; Gold Tests $700   BYBy Peter A. McKay    WC569 words   PD10 May 2006   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGC1   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 2006, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LPTHE DOW JONES Industrial Average took another step toward a record, but other stock-market measures were mixed. Gold prices rose again, nearing $700 an ounce.

Corporate news -- including a lowered profit forecast by computer maker Dell -- pushed major indexes around, but many investors were sitting on the sidelines ahead of today's meeting of Federal Reserve policymakers. A statement from the Fed, including a possible interest-rate increase, is expected around 2:15 p.m. Eastern time.
   TDThe Dow climbed 55.23 points, or 0.5%, to 11639.77, up 8.6% on the year and 83.21 points shy of the record set in January 2000. General Motors, the Dow's most downtrodden component in recent months, rallied, helped by the company's release of revised financial results for the first quarter and an upgrade by Deutsche Bank analysts, who now view the auto maker's stock as a "hold" rather than a "sell."

The Fed is widely expected to raise its key target for short-term interests rate one-quarter percentage point to 5%. But Wall Street will look for signs that this hike will be the last in a series that has already lasted more than two years, said Jim Bianco, president of Bianco Research, a Chicago research firm.

"People are so sensitive to the language the Fed uses," said Mr. Bianco. "Billions of dollars will change hands because someone moved a comma."

Among other major market indicators, the Standard &Poor's 500-stock index rose 0.48 point, less than 0.1%, to 1325.14, up 6.2% on the year. The Nasdaq Composite Index shed 0.3%, or 6.74 points, to 2338.25, up 6% on the year, as Dell's woes spread elsewhere in the technology sector.

Besides the Fed's statement, investors today will respond early to the earnings of two bellwether companies. Following yesterday's close of trading, Walt Disney and Cisco Systems announced results that beat analysts' expectations. Cisco rose initially in after-hours trading but ended down 1.5%; Disney shares rose 1.4%.

Gold for May delivery jumped 3.2%, or $21.60, to a fresh 25-year high of $699.40 a troy ounce on Nymex's Comex division, boosted by dollar weakness. Futures for June delivery, the most-active contract, finished above the psychologically important level of $700 at $701.50, also up $21.60.

The rally in the yellow metal and other commodities is drawing interest from investors who haven't dabbled in the sector in the past. "People are using gold to diversify," said Richard Radez, founder of the precious-metals consulting firm Radez Investment Group Inc.

Crude oil ended at $70.69 per barrel, up 92 cents or 1.3% on Nymex, and up 16% on the year.

In major U.S. market action:

Stocks rose and bond prices fell. The 10-year Treasury note shed 4/32, or $1.25 for each $1,000 invested, pushing the yield up to 5.134%. The 30-year Treasury bond shed 7/32 to yield 5.206%.

The dollar weakened. Late in New York, it traded at 111.12 yen, down from 111.69 yen, while the euro rose against the dollar to $1.2752 from $1.2706. 



License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   COpcltd : Dell Inc   INi3302 : Computers/Electronics | i3302003 : Desktop Computers | icomp : Computing | icph : Computer Hardware   NSm11 : Equity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | e1202 : Interest Rates | gvtre : Treasury Department | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m131 : Money Markets | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | mntdbt : National Government Debt/Bond Markets | nsum : News Digest | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | gvexe : Executive Branch | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | niwe : IWE Filter   REjap : Japan | usa : United States | asiaz : Asia | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America   IPCPIC | TRE | USG | STT | JPY | NND | TPX | USD | MIM | PMK | TFR | TPT   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument J000000020060510e25a00033  


 HDEconomists Give Bernanke a B+ For First Three Months on Job   BYBy Tim Annett    WC526 words   PD10 May 2006   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGA2   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 2006, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LPEconomists give Ben Bernanke a B+ for his first three months as Alan Greenspan's successor as Federal Reserve chairman but say he could use a little more polish when it comes to communicating with financial markets.

A new WSJ.com survey of 47 economists finds nearly half give the rookie Fed chairman a B for overall performance; 18 give him an A and six a C, which works out to a solid B+.
   TDWith one interest-rate increase under his belt and another expected today, economists surveyed give Mr. Bernanke high grades for his monetary-policy calls. Twenty-eight gave Mr. Bernanke an A, 14 gave him a B and three gave him a C. Only one economist gave him a D, and nobody flunked him. (One economist didn't assign a letter grade.)

The Fed's policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee is expected to raise the target for the federal-funds rate, charged on overnight loans between banks, by a quarter percentage point to 5%, which would be the 16th consecutive meeting with a quarter-point increase.

Peter Hooper, chief U.S. economist at Deutsche Bank, gave Mr. Bernanke a B+ overall, explaining, "It's just about impossible to be perfect. He's been very solid on the policy front and has shown some rough edges on communications."

In the survey, 20 of 47 economists gave Mr. Bernanke a B on communications, while 13 gave him a C and 10 handed out an A. There were four Ds.

Mr. Bernanke, more plain-spoken than Mr. Greenspan, has long argued the benefits of clearly communicating the Fed's thinking about the economy. But many still are getting acquainted with the differences between Mr. Bernanke's style and Mr. Greenspan's famously opaque pronouncements.

Several economists surveyed made reference to comments that CNBC anchor Maria Bartiromo says Mr. Bernanke made to her at the recent White House Correspondents Association dinner, which caused a stir in the financial markets when she reported on the air last week that he said his congressional testimony had been misinterpreted.

Advised economist James F. Smith of the University of North Carolina: "Never talk to Maria again."

Markets will scrutinize the Fed's end-of-meeting statement to look for any signals on whether the Fed anticipates lifting rates at the end of June. Mr. Bernanke told a congressional committee recently that the Fed could take a pause in rate lifting but said that wouldn't necessarily mean it was done raising rates this year. With the federal-funds rate expected to be at 5% after today's meeting, Fed officials say they are waiting for more data on the economic and inflation outlook to decide whether to lift rates further.

In the survey, economists' median expectation is that the rate will finish the year at 5%. Most of the economists -- 28 of the 46 who answered the question -- advised the Fed to end, or at least take a pause in, its rate-raising campaign. 



License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | ecat : Economic News | gvexe : Executive Branch | m131 : Money Markets | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCEMB | PIC | FED | USG | NND | TPX | LMJ | TPT   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument J000000020060510e25a0003m  


 HDU.S. raises interest rates to 5-year high _ leaves investors guessing about next step     BYBy JEANNINE AVERSA     CRAP Economics Writer   WC909 words   PD11 May 2006   ET06:39   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.  
   LPWASHINGTON (AP) - The U.S. central bank is no longer on autopilot when it comes to boosting interest rates.  

The Federal Reserve's next move, at its June meeting, could be another increase. Or it could opt for the first time in two years to take a break from its credit-tightening campaign and leave rates alone, depending on how economic activity and inflation unfold.  
   TDAfter bumping up borrowing costs steadily since June 2004, Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke and his colleagues on Wednesday suggested that future interest rate decisions will be much less predictable.  

Those looking for a clear signal one way or the other about future moves didn't get one. "The Bernanke monetary sphinx did not blink," said Brian Bethune, economist at Global Insight.  

The Fed's latest action pushed up the federal funds rate, which is the interest that banks charge each other on overnight loans, to 5 percent. It marked the 16th consecutive quarter-point increase in the past two years.  

In response, commercial banks raised their prime lending rate by a corresponding amount, to 8 percent, for certain credit cards, home equity lines of credit and other loans.  

Both the funds rate and the prime rate are at their highest points in just over five years.  

Future decisions on interest rates, though, will hinge more heavily on what upcoming barometers say about economic activity and inflation, the Fed policy-makers indicated.  

If surging energy prices should spark broader inflation, the Fed could opt to bump up rates again. If the economy should show signs of slowing more than anticipated, a pause in rate raising could be in store.  

"The Federal Reserve doesn't want to be viewed as being behind the curve in fighting inflation. At the same time, the other misstep they desperately want to avoid is to continue to hike rates just as business activity begins to downshift," said Bernard Baumohl, executive director of the Economic Outlook Group, a consulting firm.  

Fed policy-makers offered a largely positive assessment of the economic climate, although they continued to express concern about the potential for inflation to flare up.  

Further moves "may yet be needed to address inflation risks," they said. Any such action, they added, "will depend importantly on the evolution of the economic outlook as implied by incoming information."  

Economists said this language -- more detailed than a previous policy statement on March 28 -- gave the Fed more flexibility in terms of future interest-rate decisions.  

If the economy doesn't slow to a more sustainable pace -- as the Federal Reserve expects -- and high energy prices start feeding into the prices of lots of other goods and service, then the Fed could opt to boost rates at its next meeting on June 28-29, or at some other point.  

However, if economic growth does slow -- something that could reduce inflation pressures -- then the Fed might pause in its rate-raising campaign at the June meeting, or perhaps later this summer.  

Many economists believe the Fed will take a break from rate-raising, although they have mixed opinions on when that will happen.  

Some believe Wednesday's increase will be the last for a while. "My sense is still that their default position is to pause in June," said Stephen Stanley chief economist at RBS Greenwich Capital.  

Other economists, however, predict the funds rate will rise to 5.25 percent in June and then the Fed will move to the sidelines. A few believe the rate will rise to 5.50 percent before a pause.  

The stock market, which ended mixed on Wednesday, wasn't sure whether to view this Fed statement as leaning toward another increase or toward a pause.  

The economy, in the first three months of this year, grew at a brisk 4.8 percent pace, the fastest in 2 1/2 years. That is expected to slow to about 3 percent in this April-to-June quarter, still a healthy pace.  

One challenge facing the Fed is figuring out whether high energy prices will feed inflation, slow overall economic activity or perhaps lead to both scenarios. Another challenge is gauging the extent to which the housing market, which racked up record high sales five years in a row, will slow this year. A slowdown in the housing market probably would crimp consumer spending and, thus overall economic activity.  

So far, the run-up in energy prices and other commodities has had only a modest effect on the prices of goods and services other than food and energy, the Fed said. Still, "elevated prices of energy and other commodities have the potential to add to inflation pressures," the Fed added.  

Oil prices hit a record high of $75.17 a barrel in late April; they are hovering above $72 a barrel currently. Gasoline prices have marched higher and have topped $3 a gallon in some areas.  

Bernanke took over as chairman on Feb. 1. Of the 16 rate increases, two were ordered by Bernanke's Fed and 14 by that of his predecessor, Alan Greenspan. Before the increases, the funds rate had been sliced to a 46-year low of 1 percent to help the economy recover from the bursting of the stock market bubble, a recession and terror attacks.  

------  

On the Net:  

Federal Reserve:  http://www.federalreserve.gov 
   RF7   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPCtagpf1wcat | sel----- | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | NA FIN ECO US Fed Interest Rates | D8HHC0EO0   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020060511e25b000qh  



 HDFACTBOX-U.S. Fed policymakers' recent comments     WC981 words   PD10 May 2006   ET20:42   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006 Reuters Limited  
   LPNEW YORK, May 10 (Reuters) - The Federal Reserve raised the benchmark interest rate on Wednesday and said it may need to raise rates more to head off inflation pressures.  

The rate rise is the 16th straight move over the past two years, and most economists expect the central bank will at least pause from its tightening campaign at its next meeting in June.  
   TDThe following is a summary of recent comments by Federal Reserve policy-makers:  

* Denotes voting member of the FOMC in 2006. ------------------------------------------------------------  

EXCERPT FROM FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE STATEMENT, MAY 10:  

"The Committee sees growth as likely to moderate to a more sustainable pace, partly reflecting a gradual cooling of the housing market and the lagged effects of increases in interest rates and energy prices.  

"As yet, the run-up in the prices of energy and other commodities appears to have had only a modest effect on core inflation, ongoing productivity gains have helped to hold the growth of unit labor costs in check, and inflation expectations remain contained. Still, possible increases in resource utilization, in combination with the elevated prices of energy and other commodities, have the potential to add to inflation pressures.  

"The Committee judges that some further policy firming may yet be needed to address inflation risks but emphasizes that the extent and timing of any such firming will depend importantly on the evolution of the economic outlook as implied by incoming information. In any event, the Committee will respond to changes in economic prospects as needed to support the attainment of its objectives."  

* NEW YORK FED PRESIDENT TIMOTHY GEITHNER, REPORTED MAY 4:  

"(Bernanke) is a champion of transparency in monetary policy, but he also recognizes that there are limits to what we know about the economic forecast and what that means to monetary policy.  

"And he understands that we can't give the markets more clarity about the forecast or about future policy than we have ourselves."  

MINNEAPOLIS FED PRESIDENT GARY STERN, MAY 3:  

"The outlook for the American economy is very, very promising, certainly for the rest of this year and for 2007 ... Core inflation will remain historically low."  

* ATLANTA FED PRESIDENT JACK GUYNN, MAY 1:  

"If -- and I emphasize if -- my most likely forecast of sustainable output growth and modest inflation is right, then I am of the view that we are very close to having Fed policy properly calibrated for now."  

"But if we were to get a series of indications that those inflation risks are getting translated into cost pressures that are being past through to inflation, I would be near the front of the line in arguing for additional adjustment in policy,"  

CHICAGO FED PRESIDENT MICHAEL MOSKOW, MAY 1:  

"We worry about everything, but my own personal concern is that inflation is at the high end of my comfort zone. I'm talking about core inflation now; subtract oil, and subtract volatile food prices as well."  

* FED CHAIRMAN BEN BERNANKE, APRIL 27:  

"Even if in the committee's judgment the risks to its objectives are not entirely balanced, at some point in the future, the committee may decide to take no action at one or more meetings in the interest of allowing more time to receive information relevant to the outlook."  

"Of course, a decision to take no action at a particular meeting does not preclude actions at subsequent meetings."  

* FED GOVERNOR DONALD KOHN, APRIL 27:  

"The latest reads on business spending and intentions point to continued solid growth in capital spending."  

* SAN FRANCISCO FED PRESIDENT JANET YELLEN, APRIL 19:  

"I think higher rates and other factors will begin to bite but obviously you have got to watch the data. What I'm watching for are surprises."  

* SAN FRANCISCO FED PRESIDENT JANET YELLEN, APRIL 18:  

"I am increasingly concerned about the well-known long and variable lags in monetary policy -- specifically, that the delayed effects of our past policy actions might impact spending with greater force than expected.  

"While I expect the housing sector to slow somewhat, I will be highly alert to the possibility of the policy tightening going too far."  

CHICAGO FED PRESIDENT MICHAEL MOSKOW, APRIL 17:  

"Inflation currently is near the upper end of the range that I feel is consistent with price stability. As such, I believe monetary policy most be vigilant."  

FED VICE CHAIRMAN ROGER FERGUSON, APRIL 17:  

"We must always ask: Do our potential actions credibly mitigate a risk of inflation or a threat to the real economy? Such a standard helps reduce the danger that we might pursue financial stability to the point of changing the behavior of market participants in counterproductive ways."  

* FED GOVERNOR SUSAN BIES, APRIL 13:  

"We're closer (to a neutral interest-rate level) than we were a few months ago. Everyone agrees we are getting closer to the stopping point."  

* FED GOVERNOR DONALD KOHN, APRIL 13:  

"At this juncture, given the apparent strength in demand and the narrowing margin of unused resources, I am focused on making sure that inflation and inflation expectations remain well anchored."  

DALLAS FED PRESIDENT RICHARD FISHER, APRIL 11:  

"I think that with the conduct of monetary policy that we have had recently, and with what I expect to be the future thoughtfulness of monetary policy going forward, that we will continue to be able to contain inflation and provide the conditions for continued growth. That is our job," he said.  

ACTING PHILADELPHIA FED PRESIDENT WILLIAM STONE, APRIL 7:.  

"With our economy continuing its expansion and the Fed maintaining a watchful eye over potential risk factors, it is imperative that the Federal Reserve remain vigilant to signs of inflation.  

"But I believe it is now appropriate to allow incoming data on inflation and economic growth to guide our policy adjustments going forward."  
   RFECONOMY-FED-COMMENTS|LANGEN|ABN|M|D|E|RBN|U|RNP|DNP   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | e1202 : Interest Rates | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mcpdbt : Corporate Debt/Bond Markets | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCFED | DBT | INT | MCE | CEN | STIR | PLCY | FED/QUOTES   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument LBA0000020060510e25a002bm  



 SECOMMENT   HDBernanke's balancing act means slow times ahead STEPHEN CECCHETTI.   BYBy STEPHEN CECCHETTI    WC824 words   PD9 May 2006   SNFinancial Times   SCFTFT   EDAsia Ed1   PGPage 13   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPBarring a catastrophe, Ben Bernanke, chairman of the Federal Reserve, and his colleagues will tomorrow announce the 16th consecutive 25 basis point increase in the federal funds rate target, bringing it to 5 per cent. The big question is: what will they do next?

Inflation is rising, the housingmarket is weakening and oil pricesare up 50 per cent in the past year. The response of policymakers to this challenge will almost surely be to pause as they wait for more information to clarify the very hazy economic picture.
   TDStarting with inflation, the March US consumer price index contained an ominous signal. Housing costs rose0.44 per cent for the month (annualised, that is 5.4 per cent). Normally, one should not put too much stock in one month's data, but in this case we should.

US inflation is unusual in that it treats renters and owners symmetrically using surveys to infer the rents homeowners would pay if they were to rent the houses from themselves. Because two-thirds of Americans own their own home, this rent-based measure represents nearly one-quarter of the headline inflation index. So, understanding inflation means understanding rents. Here the news is very bad.

Over the past five years, prices of homes have risen by more than twice as much as rents. Last month's numbers suggest that this gap will be closed mainly through rent increases, rather than house price declines. At the current pace, with rents rising5 1/2 per cent per year, this will take three years, adding more than a full point to headline inflation each year.

The housing boom, through the impact of increased wealth on consumption, has been raising real gross domestic product growth by about 1 1/2 percentage points a year for the past five years. With flat housing prices, this engine of growth has disappeared.

Finally, we come to oil prices. When energy prices rise everyone worries about inflation but the biggest impact is on growth. We now have to pay foreigners more for the energy we are already using; and we are stuck with overly energy-intensive automobiles and capital equipment. The result is that spending on non-energy items has to grow much less quickly, if at all. The result is lower growth.

I have painted a bleak picture: rising inflation and falling growth. Stabilising one destabilises the other. How will Mr Bernanke and the rest of his Federal Open Market Committee react? In recent months, they have emphasised both the importance of anchoring long-term inflation expectations and how low inflation enhances the Fed's other statutory objectives of high employment and moderate long-term interest rates. The message is that policymakers are committed to keeping inflation low. That is their primary objective.

As for the current circumstance, two forces will combine to slow everything down. The first is uncertainty. Second, there is the need to balance the competing goals of low inflation and stable growth. As I have argued, there are strong reasons to expect inflation to rise and growth to fall. On their own, these would require diametrically opposed interest rate policies. Put them together and the appropriate response is to bring inflation down slowly so as to keep growth as stable as possible.

At times like these a system where inflation is the sole (or even primary) objective of monetary policy can create difficulties. The problem is communicating why it is that inflation is going to be allowed to rise so that real growth does not deteriorate too badly. It is a difficult balancing act but there is little anyone can do about that.

By the end of 2006, rates will be still above 5 per cent. To figure out how much higher, we can use the following rule of thumb: for every percentage point inflation rise above 2 per cent, the federal funds rate target needs to rise by 1 1/2 percentage points above the neutral level of 4 1/2 per cent. So, if inflation were to go to 3 per cent, the federal funds rate would have to rise to 6 per cent. That is the maximum. If growth slows, then there will be no need to get quite that high.

When interest rates were 1 per cent in mid-2004, I calculated they needed to get to 4 1/2 per cent. In mid-2005, when it became clear how long it would take to get there, I began thinking 5 per cent would be the peak. With interest rates so low for so long, housing price increases are now leading to higher rents, which feed directly into headline inflation. Controlling this means continuing to raise interest rates. Regardless, balancing the competing forces means going slowly.

The writer is the Rosenberg Professor of Global Finance at the International Business School, Brandeis University 
   RF20060509J113.030   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | c152 : Earnings Projections | c314 : Pricing | cusags : Usage Statistics | e1103 : Inflation/Prices | ecat : Economic News | m14 : Commodity Markets | m143 : Energy Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | c15 : Performance | c31 : Marketing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTFT000020060509e2590000u  



 SECOMMENT AND ANALYSIS   HDMarkets in search of guidance in an age of uncertainty - INTEREST RATES: Bernanke's Fed wants investors to make their own decisions about where the US economy is heading.   BYBy KRISHNA GUHA and JENNIFER HUGHES    WC1,187 words   PD10 May 2006   SNFinancial Times   SCFTFT   EDLondon Ed1   PGPage 15   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPFinancial markets are nervous. Ben Bernanke, the chairman of the US Federal Reserve, and his fellow members of the Fed's Open Market Committee discuss interest rates today and investors are more edgy than usual as they await the outcome.

"Fed watching" is standard market practice around the worldbut investors are particularly sensitive about the statement that will accompany this decision and the clues it may give as to the likely future path of US interest rates.
   TDRecently, the slightest nugget of new information has produced volatile reactions in bonds, stocks and currencies. Such behaviour is not unusual for the bond market but it is strange to see stocks and currencies similarly on edge.

Part of the explanation is that investors know the Fed is coming to an inflexion point after an uncommonly steady series of rate rises. It is very likely to pause its tightening soon. Mr Bernanke has made it clear that a pause does not necessarily mean an end to tightening, and that the Fed still has a tightening bias. But investors do not know for sure whether the next move after a pause will be up or down.

This is a level of uncertainty that has been missing for at least two years, and so the markets are frantically searching for clues as to the Fed's intentions.

The second factor unsettling markets is Mr Bernanke himself, who replaced Alan Greenspan only three months ago. He and the markets have had little chance yet to get used to one another after 18 years of Mr Greenspan, who was nicknamed the "Maestro" for the apparent ease with which he could direct markets.

By comparison, Mr Bernanke is poorly understood. Some in the market still talk about a dovish "helicopter Ben" - after a frequently misinterpreted speech he made in 2002 pointing out that the Fed could take steps equivalent to dropping dollar bills from helicopters if necessary to prevent deflation.

Last week, these factors combined to produce sharp stock and bond falls when Maria Bartiromo, an anchor on the CNBC network, said that Mr Bernanke had told her that the markets had misunderstood his testimony to Congress the previous week.

Then, markets had rallied after the chairman forecast that growth would slow to a more sustainable pace this year and said that even if the Fed judged that the risks to growth and stability were not entirely balanced, it might pause while it gathered new information.

Ms Bartiromo said: "I asked chairman Bernanke whether the markets got it right after his congressional testimony. He said flatly: 'No.'" Stocks and bonds, on course to finish higher, slid rapidly as investors factored in the risk of more rate rises.

Such blunt comments by Fed officials on specific market moves, particularly in response to their own comments, are extremely rare. The Fed has refused to comment on the alleged conversation. Since the "Bartiromo affair", market watchers have engaged in an intense he-said-she-said debate about whether this was a deliberate leak or a rookie slip-up, and what it means for future Fed credibility with the markets.

"While it may be fun to engage in such speculative title-tattle, there is no denying that Mr Bernanke was happy to express his dissatisfaction with the market's interpretation of his testimony," says Ray Attrill, director of research at the 4Cast consultancy, who adds that it was even stranger that markets had not reacted more sharply to the original testimony.

"Had the market quickly moved to price out risks of a tightening beyond May, Mr Bernanke's fit of pique would have been more understandable," he argues-.

But is this see-saw really Mr Bernanke's fault? Others say communications difficulties are hard to avoid at this stage of the rate cycle.

"Let's have a sense of perspective here," says Mark Cliffe, chief economist for the ING group. "We're coming to the end of a hyper-predictable period and communications were going to be an issue regardless of the changing of the guard - Greenspan himself would have faced the same problem."

The new uncertainty is striking because the Fed has been able to give the market clear guidance over the past three years, carefully signalling its intentions as it lifted rates from the unusually low level of 1 per cent, beginning in June 2004.

"However you choose to interpret Bernanke's comments, the only racing certainty we have is that it is no longer certain that we're going to have a rate hike at each meeting," says Simon Derrick, head of currency strategy at Bank of New York. "The Fed is taking away the market's stabilisers and that is why there is this intense focus on all things Fed."

At this juncture, the Fed is not in a position to give the market the strong guidance it wants. The Fed's central forecast is that the US economy will slow to about its trend rate later this year. But it recognises that there is a high level of uncertainty surrounding that forecast. What happens next will depend crucially on how incoming data confirm or revise that forecast.

The Fed wants to let go and force the market to make its own judgments about where the economy and rates are heading. But the market is still clinging on to its every word.

Last week's incident was not the first time the market had swung one way and then another in response to Fed pronouncements. In March, stocks tumbled after the Fed left unchanged the language in the statement accompanying its rate decision, eschewing the chance to signal that an end to rate rises was in sight. That was interpreted as a signal of more rate rises ahead.

Three weeks later, stocks staged their biggest rally of the year when the minutes of that meeting were published, and revealed that some Fed governors had been concerned that keeping the same language would indeed be read as hawkish by the markets. Traders promptly concluded that the committee had not meant to signal more rises at all.

Since then, generally strong economic data have fuelled fears that the Fed will in fact have to tighten policy further. Market fever has reached the stage where each new set of strong numbers strikes another blow to stocks and bonds.

"There are so many people in the market with so much at stake that a lot of them immediately jump on to each little thing," says Alan Ruskin, global strategist at RBS Greenwich Capital Markets. "We just don't have a clear sense of whether the economy might slow, or that it won't, or that inflation could nudge higher as the economy slows - and that could cause all sorts of new conflicts for interest rate policy."

Which in turn would create a new set of worries for the markets. 
   RF20060510L115.056   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTFT000020060510e25a00029  



 SEFT MARKETS   HDPressure on dollar ahead of Fed verdict GLOBAL OVERVIEW.   BYBy DAVE SHELLOCK    WC459 words   PD10 May 2006   SNFinancial Times   SCFTFT   EDLondon Ed2   PGPage 44   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPThe dollar came under renewed pressure yesterday as the markets remained uncertain about what the Federal Reserve would say after today's meeting of its interest rate-setting open market committee.

The US currency briefly dipped below the Y110 level to touch an eight-month low against the Japanese yen, while the euro moved up to within striking distance of Monday's one-year high of Dollars 1.2787.
   TDTreasury bonds were also weaker in the run up to a Dollars 21bn auction of three-year notes as investors fretted about the market's ability to take on new supply, given the uncertainty about future US rate policy.

Another quarter-point rise in the Fed funds target rate to 5 per cent is considered a certainty by economists. What the markets will be looking for is any hint from the US central bank that it might be ready to take a pause in its tightening cycle.

Precious metals had a positive session, with gold creeping through the Dollars 700 an ounce level for the first time in 25 years. Platinum, meanwhile, touched a new all-time peak of Dollars 1,235 an ounce.

Among base metals, copper and zinc hit all-time highs while aluminium pushed above Dollars 3,000 a tonne for the first time in 18 years.

US crude oil futures climbed back above Dollars 70 a barrel amid lingering worries about Iran's nuclear programme. The US said a letter from the Iranian president to President George W. Bush had failed to settle the nuclear dispute that is under consideration by the United Nations Security Council.

US equities put in mixed performances, with the Dow Jones Industrial Average hitting a fresh six-year high but the technology-heavy Nasdaq Composite index falling back after a profits warning from Dell Computer.

At the close in New York, the Dow was 0.5 per higher and back above 11,600, while the Nasdaq was 0.3 percent lower. The S&P 500 was flat.

Europe managed a more positive performance. The FTSE Eurofirst 300 index rose 0.4 per cent to 1,405.55, its first close above 1,400 for nearly five years.

Asian stocks were broadly weaker as concerns about regional currency strength unsettled the markets.

In Tokyo, the Nikkei 225 Average slipped 0.6 per cent while the broader Topix index lost 0.4 per cent. Hong Kong and Taipei also both retreated from Monday's 5 1/2-year peaks. The Hang Seng index fell 1 per cent to 17,133.99. South Korean stocks ended lower after touching a record intra-day high in early trade. 
   RF20060510L244.010   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSm11 : Equity Markets | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REjap : Japan | usa : United States | asiaz : Asia | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTFT000020060510e25a0005r  



 HDWhat will the Fed do after the next  interest rate  hike?     BYBy JEANNINE AVERSA     CRAP Economics Writer   WC849 words   PD9 May 2006   ET19:27   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.  
   LPWASHINGTON (AP) - After a widely expected interest rate increase Wednesday, the Federal Reserve may opt to take a pause in its two-year rate-raising campaign.  

But that does not necessarily mean the central bank is finished raising rates, says Chairman Ben Bernanke.  
   TDIn other words: Pause does not mean stop.  

The Fed chief has not specified when the central bank might take a break from boosting rates. But many economists predict it will be soon -- at the Fed's June 28-29 meeting. Others think it will be later this summer.  

"Bernanke has to walk a tightrope between raising rates too much and slowing the economy or pausing too soon and letting the inflation monster out of the bag," said Greg McBride, senior financial analyst at Bankrate.com.  

What economists do agree on is that the Fed will push up its federal funds rate by one-quarter percentage point to 5 percent on Wednesday. That would mark the 16th increase of that size since the Fed began to tighten credit in June 2004.  

In response, commercial banks are expected to raise their prime lending rate -- for certain credit cards, home equity lines of credit and other loans -- by a corresponding amount, to 8 percent.  

Such moves would lift both the funds rate and the prime rate to their highest points since the spring of 2001.  

Many believe Wednesday's expected increase will be the last one for the funds rate for a while. The funds rate, the interest that banks charge each other on overnight loans, affects a variety of other interest rates charged to consumers and businesses and thus is the Fed's primary tool for influencing activity.  

Economists in this camp predict the Fed will pause at the June meeting because policymakers do not want to push rates too high, which could hurt the economy.  

Other economists, however, insist the Fed will have to push the funds rate up to 5.25 or 5.50 percent to keep inflation under control. Then the central bank will be able to safely move to the sidelines for a while.  

Both camps of economists agree it is a delicate dance that Bernanke and his colleagues face in deciding when to wind down their credit tightening campaign.  

"It is an extremely difficult process to get it exactly right," said Gregory Miller, chief economist at SunTrust Banks.  

Bernanke, who has been on the job since Feb. 1, is more plain spoken than his famously obscure predecessor, Alan Greenspan. But some economists said Bernanke needs to work on sharpening the signals he wants to send to Wall Street -- where a single word uttered by a Fed chief can move stock and bond prices.  

"He has to get a better feel for how the markets will react to the way he phrases things and the markets will have to get a better feel for how he phrases things," said economist Joel Naroff, president of Naroff Economic Advisors.  

When Bernanke raised the possibility of the Fed pausing its credit-tightening campaign in a congressional appearance April 27, stocks rallied. When CNBC reported May 1 that Bernanke said investors had misinterpreted his congressional remarks as an indication the Fed was nearly done raising rates, stocks -- which had been up for most of the day -- slumped.  

"I don't think Bernanke fully recognized the extent to which the markets look at only limited elements of the discussion and they pick out one word or phrase and not the nuances," Naroff said. "I think he is attempting to speak more clearly but that doesn't necessarily mean he is getting his message out clearly."  

Economist Ken Mayland, president of ClearView Economics, thinks Bernanke so far is doing a good job of trying to be more open about the Fed's thinking on the economy and monetary policy while trying to ensure the Fed does not box itself in when it comes to rate actions.  

"The economy is so complex and things aren't 100 percent clear, so he is trying to create wiggle room for the Fed," Mayland said.  

One challenge facing the Fed is figuring out whether high energy prices will feed inflation, slow overall economic activity or perhaps lead to both scenarios. If the Fed is more worried about inflation flaring up, it would lean toward raising rates. If it is more concerned about slower economic growth, that would favor a pause.  

The economy, which grew at a brisk 4.8 percent pace in the first quarter, is expected to slow to a still decent pace of about 3 percent in the second quarter.  

Recent economic barometers showed that manufacturing, service sector activity and retail sales all posted healthy gains in April. Hiring, however, slowed sharply last month, with employers adding just 138,000 jobs, the fewest in six months.  

On the inflation side, some measures of wages are showing big pickups, raising caution flags to some economists.  

------  

On the Net:  

Federal Reserve:  http://www.federalreserve.gov/ 
   RF7   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPCtagpf0wcat | sel----- | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | NA FIN ECO US Fed Interest Rates | D8HGD2B80   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020060509e259005ic  



 HDUPDATE 3-U.S. mortgage creation seen down 17 pct in 2006     BYBy Kristin Roberts and Lynn Adler     WC788 words   PD9 May 2006   ET21:04   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006 Reuters Limited  
   LP(Recasts; changes headline, adds outlook, quotes, bylines)  

CHICAGO, May 9 (Reuters) - Rising U.S. interest rates pushed homebuyers toward fixed-rate mortgages in the second half of last year and will cut total home loan creation by 17 percent this year, a trade group said on Tuesday.  
   TDLenders will issue about $2.4 trillion in loans in 2006, the fifth highest on record, after $2.9 trillion last year and an all-time high of $3.9 trillion in 2003, the Mortgage Bankers Association predicted.  

The five highest years on record were all set this decade as interest rates fell to generational lows. The Federal Reserve is expected to raise interest rates on Wednesday for the 16th straight time in nearly two years, helping take the steam out of U.S. housing.  

Thirty-year fixed rate mortgages should end the year around 6.90 percent, considered low historically but high enough to stifle home refinancing and thus overall loan volume, the MBA said. Rising rates boosted the volume of both traditional and interest-only fixed-rate loans in the second half of last year, the trade group added.  

While mortgage creation remains lofty, the current declines nonetheless put pressure on corporate earnings, said Doug Duncan, the MBA's chief economist.  

"From the perspective of the mortgage banker it will be a tougher year," Duncan said. "From the perspective of the borrower, it will be a great year because the mortgage banker will be passing through every penny of cost savings they can to the consumer to keep their business."  

FED WATCH  

Fed rate increases are starting to bite because recent new loans are heavily skewed toward adjustable-rate products that will be reset at higher interest rates. The bias is shifting back toward fixed-rate loans as a result.  

The MBA said first mortgage originations overall jumped 14 percent in the second half of 2005.  

Fixed-rate products accounted for 47 percent of loan originations in the second half of last year, up from 42 percent in the first half. Demand for fixed-rate interest-only loans jumped to 13 percent of origination volume in the second half from 7 percent in the first, the group said.  

"As short-term rates increased over the second half of 2005, homeowners moved away from adjustable rate loans into fixed-rate loans," said Duncan.  

Mortgage rates began to climb in the second half of 2005 after a months-long campaign of short-term rate hikes by the Federal Reserve.  

As mortgage rates moved up, the U.S. housing market began to ease following a five-year rally that shattered sales and construction records. The 30-year fixed-rate mortgage in the latest week stood at 6.59 percent, hitting its highest since June 2002, according to Freddie Mac.  

The housing market and price appreciation were "normalizing," Duncan said  

Duncan, speaking to reporters at a Mortgage Bankers Association event in Chicago, also said he expects the Federal Reserve to raise interest rates again on Wednesday by a quarter-percentage point to 5 percent, and then stop.  

"The Fed is sensitive to the fact that while we've had refi booms before, this refi boom is different than the two previous ones," Duncan said.  

In 1994 or 1999, refinancings reached a peak 35 percent of applications before immediately falling. This time, refis reached about that same peak in late 2003 and stayed there for 2-1/2 years.  

About one quarter of mortgage holders now have loans with adjustable terms. "There are a higher share of households that have some interest rate sensitivity that are going to be impacted by their conduct of monetary policy," Duncan said.  

Delinquencies could rise modestly and disposable income shaved as more mortgages reset at higher interest rates.  

LOAN MIX  

The group said originations of reverse mortgages, which allow the elderly to convert part of their home equity into income without selling their houses, jumped sharply in the second half of the year, up 45 percent over the level of originations in the first half of 2005.  

Of all originations in the second half of last year, 19 percent were for single-family attached homes and 76 percent were for single-family detached homes. Almost two-thirds of single-family attached home originations were for condos or cooperatives, according to the group.  

Duncan said condos were leading the cool-off in the housing market. The supply of condos on the market is giving buyers more leverage in purchase negotiations than sellers, he said.  
   RFFINANCE-MORTGAGES (UPDATE 3)|LANGEN|ABN|E|RBN|U|D|M|MNI|RNP|DNP   INibcs : Business/Consumer Services | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ibuildpr : Building Materials/Products | icre : Construction/Real Estate   NSe1122 : Mortgage Applications/Refinancing | e1202 : Interest Rates | ginda : Independent Agencies/Regulatory Bodies | gvexe : Executive Branch | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mcpdbt : Corporate Debt/Bond Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCFIN | MTG | DBT | BNK | LOA | INT | MCE | REA | MUNI | REGS | WASH | CON | BLD | AGN   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument LBA0000020060509e2590020q  



 HDFed raises interest rates to 5-year high _ leaves investors guessing about next step     BYBy JEANNINE AVERSA     CRAP Economics Writer   WC823 words   PD10 May 2006   ET23:53   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.  
   LPWASHINGTON (AP) - The Federal Reserve boosted Americans' borrowing costs for the 16th time in a row on Wednesday -- this time to the highest level in five years -- but suggested what happens next will be much less predictable.  

Chairman Ben Bernanke and his Fed colleagues left their options wide open to order yet another increase or to take a break in their two-year rate-raising campaign.  
   TDDecisions on interest rates will hinge more heavily on what upcoming barometers say about economic activity and inflation, the Fed policymakers indicated.  

If surging energy prices should spark broader inflation, the Fed could opt to bump up rates again. If the economy should show signs of slowing more than anticipated, a pause in rate raising could be in store.  

To keep the economy and inflation on an even keel, the Fed unanimously decided on Wednesday to increase its federal funds rate by one-quarter percentage point to 5 percent. It marked the 16th increase of that size since the Fed began to tighten credit in June 2004.  

The funds rate, the interest that banks charge each other on overnight loans, affects a variety of other interest rates charged to consumers and businesses and thus is the Fed's primary tool for influencing economic activity.  

In response, commercial banks raised their prime lending rate -- for certain credit cards, home equity lines of credit and other loans -- by a corresponding amount, to 8 percent.  

The actions lifted both the funds rate and the prime rate to their highest points in just over five years.  

Fed policymakers offered a largely positive assessment of the economic climate, although they continued to express concern about the potential for inflation to flare up.  

Further moves "may yet be needed to address inflation risks," they said. Any such action, they added, "will depend importantly on the evolution of the economic outlook as implied by incoming information."  

Economists said this language -- more detailed than a previous policy statement issued on March 28 -- gave the Fed more flexibility in terms of future interest-rate decisions.  

If the economy doesn't slow to a more sustainable pace -- as the Federal Reserve expects -- and high energy prices start feeding into the prices of lots of other goods and service, then the Fed could opt to boost rates at its next meeting on June 28-29 or a some other point.  

However, if economic growth does slow -- something that could reduce inflation pressures -- then the Fed might pause in its rate raising at the June meeting or perhaps later this summer.  

Many economists believe the Fed will take a break in its rate-raising campaign this year -- although they have mixed opinions on when that will happen. Some believe Wednesday's increase will be the last for a while. Others predict the funds rate will rise to 5.25 percent in June and then the Fed will move to the sidelines. A few believe the rate will rise to 5.50 percent before a pause.  

"We are now in much more uncertain territory. Monetary policy will become a lot less predictable and more focused on data," said Lynn Reaser, chief economist at Bank of America's Investment Strategies Group.  

The economy in the first three months of this year grew at a brisk 4.8 percent pace, the fastest in 2 and a half years. That is expected to slow to about 3 percent in the current April-to-June quarter, still a healthy pace.  

One challenge facing the Fed is figuring out whether high energy prices will feed inflation, slow overall economic activity or perhaps lead to both scenarios. Another challenge is gauging the extent to which the housing market, which racked up record high sales five years in a row, will slow this year. A slowdown in the housing market is likely to crimp consumer spending and thus overall economic activity.  

So far, the run-up in energy prices and other commodities has had only a modest effect on the prices of goods and services other than food and energy, the Fed said. Still, "elevated prices of energy and other commodities have the potential to add to inflation pressures," the Fed added.  

Oil prices hit a record high of $75.17 a barrel in late April; they are hovering above $72 a barrel currently. Gasoline prices have marched higher and have topped $3 a gallon in some areas.  

Bernanke took over as chairman on Feb. 1. Of the 16 rate increases, Bernanke's Fed ordered two and his predecessor, Alan Greenspan, 14. Before the increases, the funds rate had been sliced to a 46-year low of 1 percent to help the economy recover from the bursting of the stock market bubble, a recession and terror attacks.  

------  

On the Net:  

Federal Reserve:  http://www.federalreserve.gov/ 
   RF7   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPCtagpf0wcat | sel----- | cati   IPDInternational | NA FIN ECO US Fed Interest Rates | D8HH62180   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020060510e25a0054o  



 HDCHRONOLOGY-Fed funds rate changes since 1990     WC724 words   PD10 May 2006   ET20:26   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006 Reuters Limited  
   LPNEW YORK, May 10 (Reuters) - The Federal Reserve on Wednesday raised the benchmark federal funds rate to 5.0 percent from 4.75 percent, the central bank's 16th consecutive interest rate hike since it began tightening monetary policy in June 2004.  

The following is a chronology of the Federal Reserve's changes in the federal funds rate since 1990.  
   TDMoves are measured in basis points (bps), each of which equals one-hundredth of a percentage point: 2006   


May 10             Raised 25 bps  to  5.00 pct
March 28           Raised 25 bps  to  4.75 pct
Jan 31             Raised 25 bps  to  4.50 pct
2005
Dec 13             Raised 25 bps  to  4.25 pct
Nov 1              Raised 25 bps  to  4.00 pct
Sept 20            Raised 25 bps  to  3.75 pct
Aug 9              Raised 25 bps  to  3.50 pct
June 30            Raised 25 bps  to  3.25 pct
May 3              Raised 25 bps  to  3.00 pct
March 22           Raised 25 bps  to  2.75 pct
Feb 2              Raised 25 bps  to  2.50 pct
2004
Dec 14             Raised 25 bps  to  2.25 pct
Nov 10             Raised 25 bps  to  2.00 pct
Sept 21            Raised 25 bps  to  1.75 pct
Aug 10             Raised 25 bps  to  1.50 pct
June 30            Raised 25 bps  to  1.25 pct
2003
June 25            Cut 25 bps     to  1.00 pct
2002
Nov 6              Cut 50 bps     to  1.25 pct
2001
Dec 12             Cut 25 bps     to  1.75 pct
Nov 6              Cut 50 bps     to  2.00 pct
Oct 2              Cut 50 bps     to  2.50 pct
Sept 17            Cut 50 bps     to  3.00 pct
Aug 21             Cut 25 bps     to  3.50 pct
June 27            Cut 25 bps     to  3.75 pct
May 15             Cut 50 bps     to  4.00 pct
April 18           Cut 50 bps     to  4.50 pct
March 20           Cut 50 bps     to  5.00 pct
Jan 31             Cut 50 bps     to  5.50 pct
Jan 3              Cut 50 bps     to  6.00 pct
2000
May 16             Raised 50 bps  to  6.50 pct
March 21           Raised 25 bps  to  6.00 pct
Feb 2              Raised 25 bps  to  5.75 pct
1999
Nov 16             Raised 25 bps  to  5.50 pct
Aug 24             Raised 25 bps  to  5.25 pct
June 30            Raised 25 bps  to  5.00 pct
1998
Nov 17             Cut 25 bps     to  4.75 pct
Oct 15             Cut 25 bps     to  5.00 pct
Sept 29            Cut 25 bps     to  5.25 pct
1997
March 25           Raised 25 bps  to  5.50 pct
1996
Jan 31             Cut 25 bps     to  5.25 pct
1995
Dec 19             Cut 25 bps     to  5.50 pct
July 6             Cut 25 bps     to  5.75 pct
Feb 1              Raised 50 bps  to  6.00 pct
1994
Nov 15             Raised 75 bps  to  5.50 pct
Aug 16             Raised 50 bps  to  4.75 pct
May 17             Raised 50 bps  to  4.25 pct
April 18           Raised 25 bps  to  3.75 pct
March 22           Raised 25 bps  to  3.50 pct
Feb 4              Raised 25 bps  to  3.25 pct
1993
No rate changes
1992
Sept 4             Cut 25 bps     to  3.00 pct
July 2             Cut 50 bps     to  3.25 pct
April 9            Cut 25 bps     to  3.75 pct
1991
Dec 20             Cut 50 bps     to  4.00 pct
Dec 6              Cut 25 bps     to  4.50 pct
Nov 6              Cut 25 bps     to  4.75 pct
Oct 31             Cut 25 bps     to  5.00 pct
Sept 13            Cut 25 bps     to  5.25 pct
Aug 6              Cut 25 bps     to  5.50 pct
April 30           Cut 25 bps     to  5.75 pct
March 8            Cut 25 bps     to  6.00 pct
Feb 1              Cut 50 bps     to  6.25 pct
Jan 9              Cut 25 bps     to  6.75 pct
1990
Dec 18             Cut 25 bps     to  7.00 pct
Dec 7              Cut 25 bps     to  7.25 pct
Nov 13             Cut 25 bps     to  7.50 pct
Oct 29             Cut 25 bps     to  7.75 pct
July 13            Cut 25 bps     to  8.00 pct
  
   RFECONOMY-FED (CHRONOLOGY)|LANGEN|Table|ABN|E|RBN|U|D|M|MNI|RNP|DNP   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | e1202 : Interest Rates | gvexe : Executive Branch | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mcpdbt : Corporate Debt/Bond Markets | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCFED | CEN | MCE | INT | PLCY | MUNI | DBT | WASH | STIR | FED/CHRONO   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument LBA0000020060510e25a002ax  



 HDRPT-ANALYSIS-No sign yet commodities boom fueling U.S. inflation     BYBy Ros Krasny     WC893 words   PD9 May 2006   ET11:31   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006 Reuters Limited  
   LP(Repeats to additional subscribers)  

NEW YORK, May 8 (Reuters) - There was a time when rocketing prices for gold, copper and oil would have heralded a dangerous acceleration in U.S. inflation.  
   TDSo far, though, there is little evidence the recent surge in commodities is feeding into core U.S. prices.  

That potentially gives the Federal Reserve the confidence in needs to take a breather in its 22-month interest-rate rising campaign and means Americans will not face accelerating prices for most consumer goods.  

"This goes down as the mildest pass-through to final prices ever recorded," Merrill Lynch economist David Rosenberg wrote of the commodities bull market in a research note.  

He said two factors are keeping pass-through at bay: Strong gains in U.S. worker productivity, which restrains wages, and the "intensive competitive strains" of globalization.  

Others sense that pass-through is limited because few commodities are actually scarce, and that sky-high prices more reflect the advent of commodities as a new asset class by hedge funds and other speculators.  

Warren Buffett, chairman of Berkshire Hathaway Inc., weighed in this week on copper prices. "You are looking at a market that's responding more to speculative forces than fundamental forces," the investing legend said.  

Of all the commodities, oil <CLc1> has attracted the most ink, and the Fed is striving to balance the inflationary impact of record energy costs with their potential to crimp consumer and business spending.  

"Our estimate is that every $10 (per barrel) rise in petroleum lowers potential GDP growth by about 0.25 (percentage points), so that's the double-edged sword," said William Strauss, senior economist and economic adviser at the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago.  

Overall, the Reuters/Jefferies Commodity Research Bureau index <.CRB>, a gauge of 19 different commodities futures markets, is up about 15 percent over the past year.  

Gold <GCc1>, the classic inflation hedge, and copper <HGc1>, a litmus test of industrial demand, have joined crude oil among top advancers, rising by some 62 percent and 150 percent, respectively, during that time.  

"Despite these seemingly monumental price increases, the impact on consumer price inflation is likely to be very modest and probably won't show up for another 12 to 15 months anyway," said Paul Ashworth, senior international economist at Capital Economics in London.  

Instead, recent oil price increases could clip $43 billion off real U.S. consumption this quarter alone, he said.  

While Fed officials undoubtedly monitor often-volatile commodity prices, they are more focused on economic data than markets for confirmation on pass-through.  

"We've seen energy prices spike up before, then they've collapsed as rapidly. If we get some kind of demand pullback from China, for example, energy prices could fall dramatically," Strauss said.  

Year-on-year inflation measured by the core personal consumption expenditures price index -- the Fed's favorite gauge -- is near the top of the central bank's "comfort zone."  

But the core PCE index has not made new highs so far in 2006. March's 2.0 percent year-on-year rise matched a level seen in December. Producer prices have remained largely under wraps as well.  

In the Fed's latest Beige Book, an anecdotal assessment of economic forces, the central bank said that despite high energy costs and rising input prices, many U.S. companies have had only mixed success raising prices in a highly competitive environment.  

WILD COMMODITY SPECULATION?  

In recent years, hedge funds have turned commodity futures into an asset class, chasing sometimes limited contract liquidity with unlimited cash to drive prices up.  

Warren Staley, chief executive of Cargill Inc., the giant agricultural company, theorizes that hedge-fund buying has divorced prices for some products from their fundamentals.  

"There's more liquidity than I ever remember," Staley said after a recent speech. Speculators can distort prices to the point that end-users try to "stay out of the way" until the dust settles, he said.  

The upshot could be wider spreads between physical and futures prices -- which would tend to limit the impact of higher futures prices down through the wholesale chain.  

Similarly, a Merrill Lynch study shows the gap between prices of listed and non-listed commodities, which are mostly shielded from speculative money, hit a record high this year.  

The Institute for Supply Management tracks which physical commodities are in short supply as part of its monthly survey of U.S. factory activity. It found that in April, steel was the sole commodity in short supply, while no products were listed in March -- versus laundry lists of hard-to-get products during commodity price bull markets in 1988-89 and 1995.  

And while China's rapid industrial growth is often cited as a reason for run-ups in many commodities, Merrill Lynch argues that the current price boom has outstripped global growth.  

Capital Economics' Ashworth noted that although the CRB metals index was up 60 percent year-on-year through the end of April, the wider index of spot prices for all industrial raw materials had risen just 18 percent.  

"We estimate that this might eventually translate into a very modest 0.2 percent increase in core CPI inflation," Ashworth said.  
   RFECONOMY-PASSTHROUGH (ANALYSIS)|LANGEN|ABN|O|OIL   INi1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i224 : Non-ferrous Metals | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | ibnk : Banking/Credit | imet : Metals/Mining | i22 : Primary Metals   NSe1201 : Central Bank Intervention | e1202 : Interest Rates | m1421 : Gold Markets | m15 : Derivative Securities | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mcpdbt : Corporate Debt/Bond Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m14 : Commodity Markets | m142 : Metals Markets | mpcsmt : Precious Metals Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCFED | MCE | FIN | BNK | GVD | DBT | DRV | INT | ENE | MET | GOL | GDM | MIN | CRU | ENR | EMBG:DBT | embargokeyE1   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument LBA0000020060512e2590015p  



 HDRPT-US 30-, 15-year mortgages fall in latest week     WC421 words   PD11 May 2006   ET18:14   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006 Reuters Limited  
   LP(Refiles to fix headline)  

WASHINGTON, May 11 (Reuters) - Average interest rates on U.S. 30- and 15-year fixed rate mortgages fell in the latest week, despite a interest rate increase by the Federal Reserve, according to a survey issued by mortgage finance company Freddie Mac on Thursday.  
   TDRates on U.S. 30-year mortgages broke their six-week rise and fell to an average of 6.58 percent from 6.59 percent, while fifteen-year mortgages dipped to an average of 6.17 percent from 6.22 percent last week.  

One-year adjustable rate mortgages also fell in the week to an average of 5.62 percent from 5.67 percent last week.  

A year ago, 30-year mortgages averaged 5.77 percent, 15-year mortgages 5.33 percent and the one-year ARM 4.23 percent, Freddie Mac said.  

"Less-than-expected job growth in April helped mortgage rates to level off this week. Even ARM rates were little affected by the Federal Reserve's increase in the federal funds rate," Frank Nothaft, Freddie Mac vice president and chief economist, said in a statement.  

"However, next week's release of the April consumer and producer price indexes may lift mortgage rates higher if the figures show an acceleration in inflation," Nothaft said.  

On Wednesday, the Fed raised the benchmark federal funds rate for a 16th straight time to 5 percent, its highest level since April 2001.  

Last week the Labor Department said U.S. April nonfarm payrolls grew by a lower-than-expected 138,000 jobs after rising by at least 200,000 in both February and March. The department will issue April producer prices on May 16 and consumer prices on May 17.  

Lenders charged an average of 0.5 percent in fees and points on 30- and 15-year mortgages, both down from 0.6 percent last week. They charged 0.7 percent on the one-year ARM, also down from 0.8 percent.  

The hybrid "5/1" ARM, set at a fixed rate for five years, then adjustable each year following, averaged 6.22 percent, up from 6.21 percent last week, and also up from 5.21 percent a year ago.  

Freddie Mac is a mortgage finance company chartered by Congress that buys mortgages from lenders and packages them into securities to sell to investors or to hold in its own portfolio.  
   RFECONOMY-MORTGAGES (REFILES)|LANGEN|ABN|E|RBN|D|M|RNP   INibcs : Business/Consumer Services   NSe1122 : Mortgage Applications/Refinancing | e1202 : Interest Rates | gvexe : Executive Branch | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mcpdbt : Corporate Debt/Bond Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCMTG | DBT | INT | MCE | FIN | WASH | AGN | CPX   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument LBA0000020060511e25b002ak  



 HDANALYSIS-Waning foreign demand augurs Treasuries bear market     BYBy John Parry     WC835 words   PD11 May 2006   ET22:28   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006 Reuters Limited  
   LPNEW YORK, May 11 (Reuters) - Signs of waning foreign demand for Treasuries in recent auctions have put bond investors on alert for any further confirmation that this has become a bearish trend for U.S. government debt.  

A battered dollar which has fallen to one-year lows against the euro and slumped against a broad swath of counterparts since late April may be one reason foreign enthusiasm for Treasuries is cooling, bond traders said.  
   TD"I think the dollar could definitely be coming into play here," said Mary Ann Hurley, senior Treasuries trader in Seattle at brokerage D.A Davidson.  

"With the current account deficit that we are running I personally think it is very plausible we will see a continued decline in the dollar, which could put upward pressure on U.S. bond yields," Hurley said.  

Bond yields move inversely to their prices.  

As the dollar weakens, the returns on U.S. assets to foreign investors decline as those dollars buy less of the investor's home currency.  

The record U.S. current account gap -- a broad measure of the nation's global trade -- is one of the biggest weights on the dollar. Moreover, as the Federal Reserve gets close to the top of its interest rate hiking cycle, which boosted the currency last year, that is eroding support for the greenback.  

In turn the currency's decline raises questions about the desire of foreign accounts, which own about half the $4.3 trillion marketable Treasury securities outstanding, to continue to add to their hefty holdings.  

At an auction of benchmark 10-year Treasury notes on Thursday, indirect bids, which include those by foreign central banks, fell well below average. That was the catalyst for a burst of selling that propelled the 10-year's yield to a fresh four-year high of 5.18 percent <US10YT=RR>.  

"The indirect bid wasn't that great," said Alan De Rose, a trader at CIBC World Markets in New York.  

Indirect bidders took about 30 percent of the $13 billion 10-year sale, well below the average 40.6 percent that indirect bidders took in these auctions in 2005.  

"It seems like we're starting a decline in the pace of foreign purchases, but it's happening very slowly and that lack of marginal buying has allowed rates to push up over the past few months," De Rose said.  

Two weeks ago, foreign central banks were huge sellers of Treasury bonds, a breakdown of the Federal Reserve's custody holdings showed, with overseas central banks dumping $12.3 billion in Treasury debt for the week ended April 26, an unusually large one-week drop. Custody holdings data for the latest week will be released at 4:30 p.m. (2030 GMT) on Thursday.  

But the ebbs and flows of custody holdings, auctions and other flows data are volatile and many bond market participants are watching for clearer evidence of bearish Treasuries trends over longer periods of time.  

If the declining pace of foreign purchases continues this trajectory "it's not good, but I'm not sure we can extrapolate that it will from the recent pattern," De Rose said.  

However, by the start of this month, the risk that foreign investors might become less aggressive participants in the U.S. bond markets as the dollar continued to weaken had become clearly apparent, so the weak indirect bids at Thursday's 10-year notes auction were not a surprise, said Kenneth Hackel, managing director of fixed-income strategy with RBS Greenwich Capital, in Greenwich, Connecticut in a research note.  

As other currencies have surged against the dollar, foreign investors in Treasuries, if not hedged against currency market fluctuations, may have incurred steep losses.  

For instance, a Japanese investor who owned 10-year Treasury notes at year end has posted a total return of minus 4.2 percent year-to-date on a dollar basis and lost about another 6.2 percent from the yen's appreciation against the dollar, Hackel estimates. Slipping foreign demand for Treasuries may be the result.  

"As today's auction results suggest, a quick net loss of almost 10.5 percent can serve as a powerful deterrent to raising exposure to U.S. assets," Hackel wrote.  

On Monday, the Treasury Department will release March data for net flows into U.S. assets. If that report shows diminished foreign buying for Treasuries, the U.S. government bond market could come under renewed pressure, analysts said.  

"If we don't match or even get somewhat close to the previous month's strong inflow I think that will be problematic for the dollar and for Treasury prices," said Hurley.  

Net purchases of U.S. Treasuries for February, the most recent month available, were $21.9 billion, up from $4.2 billion in January.  

(Additional reporting by Pedro DaCosta)  
   RFMARKETS-BONDS-FOREIGNERS (ANALYSIS)|LANGEN|ABN|E|RBN|D|U|M|MNI|J|UKI|AUF   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | gcat : Political/General News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m131 : Money Markets | m15 : Derivative Securities | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mcpdbt : Corporate Debt/Bond Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ntop : Dow Jones/Reuters Top Wire News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCDBT | GVD | MUNI | INT | MCE | STIR | DRV | MMT | NEWS | US/ | US/N | EMBG:DBT | embargokeyE1E1   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument LBA0000020060514e25b000gu  



 HDANALYSIS-US 2-year notes may star, but only once Fed stops     BYBy John Parry     WC904 words   PD9 May 2006   ET19:41   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006 Reuters Limited  
   LPNEW YORK, May 9 (Reuters) - As bond investors bet that the Federal Reserve will suspend its cycle of interest-rate hikes after one more on Wednesday, some expect the two-year note to become the Treasury market's star performer.  

Yields on short-maturity Treasuries closely mimic shifts in the federal-funds rate, the key overnight lending rate on loans between banks. In past cycles, when the central bank has started to cut interest rates, two-year notes have delivered total annual returns of more than 20 percent.  
   TDEven if the Fed were to hold rates for a while, rather than ease, there may still be money to be made, analysts say.  

But it's not always a slam dunk. This time, the Fed may stray from previous scripts. In congressional testimony in late April, Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke said the Fed could pause its rate hiking campaign, but added that this did not preclude further tightening later.  

Also, bond fund managers already have plowed money into shorter-dated paper, making it quite expensive, some analysts say.  

"The direction of the two-year will be all dependent on what the Fed does with monetary policy, and the market is expecting the Fed to end its tightening cycle here pretty soon," said Jack McIntyre, who helps oversee about $14 billion of global fixed income as associate portfolio manager with Brandywine Global Investment Management in Philadelphia.  

Brandywine began increasing its weighting of shorter-dated Treasuries about 18 months ago, "partly in anticipation of this big backup in yields at the long end of curve," McIntyre said.  

Worries that rising commodities prices may increasingly filter through into core inflation measures have pushed up yields on long-maturity debt comparatively more.  

In mid-January, the yield on both two- and 10-year notes stood at around 4.33 percent. Since then, the two-year yield <US2YT=RR> has risen to 4.97 percent, while the 10-year yield <US10YT=RR> has climbed to 5.14 percent, steepening the curve -- or gap between the two -- to about 17 basis points.  

MAKING DECENT MONEY  

In the three previous interest-rate cycles, two-year yields fell an average of 1.7 percentage points between the time the fed funds rate peaked and when the Fed began to cut rates, according to Kessler Investment Advisors Inc., a Denver-based fixed-income firm.  

In 1995, the Fed began trimming rates from 6 percent, to 5.25 percent in January 1996, triggering swift gains in prices -- which move inversely to yields -- in short-dated maturities. Those who had bought two-year notes about two months before the Fed stopped raising rates then saw annualized returns of about 26 percent, Kessler estimates.  

"On average, six months after the Fed stops raising rates they start cutting rates," Brandywine's McIntyre said. "Typically, they have gone a little too far (in raising), and you can make some decent money on two-years."  

But in this Fed cycle, the two-year note may not dazzle as much as it did then.  

The top of the 1995 tightening cycle was a full percentage point higher than the 5 percent level markets expect the funds rate to rise to on Wednesday. This more-accommodative level may give policy makers less incentive to cut rates.  

"That (previous) scenario is not necessarily applicable, because in this situation nobody is looking for the Fed to necessarily cut," said Richard Gilhooly, fixed-income market strategist with BNP Paribas Securities Corp. in New York. "We are talking about taking a pause from hiking."  

Depending on incoming economic data, the fed funds rate could go on hold for some time. But if inflationary pressures from high energy costs start to markedly spread into core price gauges, the central bank could be forced to go on hiking rates, pushing bond prices down.  

Even if the Fed were to opt for a long pause before trimming rates, returns on two-year notes could be modest compared with expected returns from U.S. benchmark stock indices of almost 10 percent this year.  

There is another reason to be wary. Some major bond market participants have already bid up the two-year as they have piled into short-dated Treasury instruments, avoiding longer maturities because of inflation fears. Longer-dated notes and bonds are particularly vulnerable to rising inflationary pressures, which erode a bond's value over time.  

U.S. bond fund giant PIMCO, with more than $610 billion of assets under management, said it has made a major bet over the past 12 months in short-dated Treasuries -- a factor that some analysts reckon has contributed to their yields rising less than those of longer maturities.  

"We see the front end of the U.S. curve in forward space offering significant value," William Powers, managing director and senior member of PIMCO's portfolio management and investment strategy groups, said in a company newsletter in April.  

BNP's Gilhooly said the short-end trade already has happened. "If you really want to make money in bonds, then you have to take on more duration. That may be the next big bet, when there will be a big shift into the back end of the curve," he said.  
   RFMARKETS-BONDS-FED (ANALYSIS)|LANGEN|ABN|M|D|E|RBN|U|MNI|J|UKI|AUF   NSe1201 : Central Bank Intervention | e1202 : Interest Rates | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m131 : Money Markets | m15 : Derivative Securities | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mcpdbt : Corporate Debt/Bond Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCDBT | GVD | MUNI | INT | MCE | CEN | FED | STIR | DRV | MMT | EMBG:DBT | embargokeyE1E1   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument LBA0000020060512e2590029z  



 HDUS SWAPS - Narrow on supply ahead of FOMC meeting     WC383 words   PD9 May 2006   ET21:17   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006 Reuters Limited  
   LPNEW YORK, May 9 (Reuters) - Supply hedging compressed U.S. swap spreads on Tuesday prior to a widely expected quarter percentage point rate increase by the Federal Reserve at its policy meeting on Wednesday, analysts said.  

Spread premiums on U.S. swaps over Treasuries shrank for a third straight session, tightening 0.50 basis point to 1.25 basis points from late Monday. Ten-year spreads narrowed to 50.50 basis points, their tightest level since late January.  
   TD"We expect spreads to continue ratcheting in for the near term," said RBS Greenwich Capital analysts in a research note on Tuesday.  

In contrast, swap yields barely moved with Treasury yields, as players moved to the sideline in anticipation of clues from the Fed policy-makers on whether the central bank will pause from its rate-raising campaign, analysts said.  

The Fed has lifted its interest rate target 15 times since June 2004 in a bid to curb inflation.  

Uncertainty has ruled the markets recently as traders and analysts consider whether the Fed is likely to pause to take stock of the economy despite stubbornly high energy prices and a tightening labor market.  

The two-year swap yield was 5.42 percent, unchanged from late Monday, and the 10-year swap yield was 5.63 percent, down 1 basis point from late Monday.  

The two-to-10-part of the swap curve flattened 1 basis points from Monday to about 21 basis points.  

Benchmark 10-year Treasury notes <US10YT=RR> fell 3/32 in price to yield 5.13 percent, up 1 basis points from Monday.  

As traders awaited the Fed's statement, supply hedging drove the day's swap trades, which narrowed their spreads, analysts said.  

Investment banks often pay in swaps to lock in yields on the bonds that they underwrite, a move that widens swap spreads. Once the debt is sold, they unwind their "rate locks" by receiving in swaps, a move that narrows spreads.  

Tuesday's biggest bond offerings included a $4 billion deal from Abbott Laboratories , a $1.75 billion transaction from J.P. Morgan and a $700 million deal from Union Bank of California .  
   RFMARKETS-SWAPS|LANGEN|Table|ABN|E|RBN|D|M|MNI|U|RNP|DNP   COrbsct : Royal Bank of Scotland Group PLC   INi814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | m131 : Money Markets | m15 : Derivative Securities | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mcpdbt : Corporate Debt/Bond Markets | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCINT | MCE | DBT | DRV | STIR | MMT | MUNI | SWP/ | EMBG:DBT | EMBG:SWP/ | embargokeyE2   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument LBA0000020060512e259002ev  



 HDUS TREASURY OUTLOOK -It's all about the Fed statement     BYBy Chris Reese     WC468 words   PD9 May 2006   ET22:13   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006 Reuters Limited  
   LPNEW YORK, May 9 (Reuters) - While the Federal Reserve is roundly expected to raise official interest rates at a meeting on Wednesday, investors will closely parse the accompanying policy statement for clues to whether the central bank is planning a pause in its rate-hike campaign.  

"The Fed is clearly poised to raise the Fed funds rate another 25 basis points, the sixteenth such consecutive move, to 5 percent," said David Rosenberg, economist at Merrill Lynch. He added that "the focus though, once again, will be on the accompanying statement."  
   TDOf particular interest will be whether the statement confirms recent testimony from Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke that the central bank is mulling a pause in rate hikes, even if economic data continues to show growth.  

"Even if in the (Federal Open Market) Committee's judgment the risks to its objective are not entirely balanced at some point in the future, the committee may decide to take no action at one or more meetings," Bernanke said late last month.  

Short-term Treasury debt prices, the most sensitive to changes in official interest rates, rallied sharply and yields fell after Bernanke's statement.  

"Look for the Fed to find a way to back away from the comment saying 'some further policy firming may be needed,'" Rosenberg said. "We believe the rate hike on Wednesday will mark the last of the current tightening cycle."  

Others argue that the Fed does not yet know whether it will pause in raising rates at the following policy meeting in June, and the decision at that time will depend on economic data, including recent signs of inflation that may be outside the central bank's presumed comfort level.  

"Though we think that the FOMC will attempt to leave the door open for the committee to either tighten or pause at the June 28-29 meeting, they will have to maintain a cautious attitude regarding prospects for inflation," said Michael Englund, chief economist for Action Economics.  

"The reference to inflation in the last FOMC statement that 'possible increases in resource utilization, in combination with the elevated prices of energy and other commodities, have the potential to add to inflation pressures' will be difficult for the Fed to credibly edit in a manner that would be taken favorably by bond bulls, given the mix of inflation data since the last meeting," Englund said.  

Ahead of Wednesday's meeting and its accompanying statement, investors were ambivalent about whether the Fed will raise rates again in June.  

Short-term interest rate futures show prospects for a one-quarter percentage point increase in rates at the June meeting at about 38 percent.  
   RFMARKETS-BONDS-OUTLOOK|LANGEN|ABN|M|E|RBN|D|U|MNI|AUF   NSe1122 : Mortgage Applications/Refinancing | e1202 : Interest Rates | m131 : Money Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mcpdbt : Corporate Debt/Bond Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCMMT | DBT | GVD | MUNI | INT | MCE | AGN | MTG | USC | STIR | US/O | EMBG:DBT | embargokeyE1   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument LBA0000020060512e259002hr  



 HDU.S. mortgage bonds tighten as focus turns to Fed     BYBy Julie Haviv     WC549 words   PD9 May 2006   ET22:47   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006 Reuters Limited  
   LPNEW YORK, May 9 (Reuters) - Yield spreads on U.S. mortgage-backed securities tightened on Tuesday in subdued trade as market participants turned their attention to the Federal Reserve's policy meeting.  

"It was another stale session as idle money remained idle ahead of the Fed," a senior mortgage trader said. "Hedge funds and money managers are done triple-guessing (the Fed)."  
   TDThe Federal Open Market Committee, the policy-making arm of the Fed, is widely expected to raise its benchmark federal funds rate to 5 percent on Wednesday, its 16th consecutive increase. The bond market will focus on whether the statement it issues in conjunction with the rate hike implies that the central bank is ready to conclude its nearly two-year monetary policy tightening cycle.  

Active 15- and 30-year mortgage securities were 2/32 lower to 2/32 higher. Bond equivalent yields on 30-year 5.50 percent coupon MBS ranged from 5.966 percent to 6.119 percent, unchanged to 0.012 percentage point more than late Monday.  

Prices on 30-year 6.00 percent coupons were unchanged to 2/32 lower. Bond equivalent yields ranged from 6.008 percent to 6.181 percent, unchanged to 0.014 percentage point more than the previous session.  

Benchmark 10-year Treasuries <US10YT=RR> were 3/32 lower at 95-6/32 to yield 5.132 percent. Yields, which move inversely to price, were up from Monday's 5.119 percent.  

Sixteen of 21 U.S. primary government securities dealers polled by Reuters on Friday do not expect Fed policy-makers to raise rates again in late June.  

Mortgage bonds historically perform well at the end of a Fed tightening cycle. That is because it typically coincides with lower interest rate volatility.  

MBS market participants are a bit concerned over why Asian demand has not picked up. Last week Asian investors were absent due to the Golden Week holiday.  

"We are surprised that Asia has been absent at these rate levels. This may very well be a product of the dollar getting shellacked," said Michael Corsi, MBS Strategist at RBS Greenwich Capital.  

Outside of the Fed meeting, MBS market participants were mulling the latest news from Fannie Mae.  

Fannie Mae, still investigating $11 billion in accounting problems, said on Tuesday it identified new errors in two areas, but it still expects to meet capital requirements set by regulators.  

The company also said it has substantially completed its analysis of accounting problems, and the restatement process will likely cost more than $800 million this year.  

Fannie Mae , a shareholder-owned but government-sponsored mortgage finance company, said it found problems in its accounting for consolidation of certain securitization transactions and for the mortgage-backed securities it issues and holds in its own portfolio.  

While the analysis of accounting errors appears near its end, the company does not expect to report restated results through 2004 before the second half of this year.  

"The new errors uncovered were a step backward, but they appear to be on track and focused on getting this whole thing behind them," the trader said.  

(Additional Reporting by Kristin Roberts)  
   RFMARKETS-MORTGAGES|LANGEN|Table|ABN|D|E|RBN|U|M   NSe1122 : Mortgage Applications/Refinancing | e1202 : Interest Rates | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mcpdbt : Corporate Debt/Bond Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCMTG | DBT | INT | MCE | AGN | STIR | CPX | MTG/ | EMBG:DBT | embargokeyE1   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument LBA0000020060512e259002jm  



 HDUPDATE 1-Philippine c.bank says Fed hike expected     WC259 words   PD11 May 2006   ET03:09   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006 Reuters Limited  
   LP   (Adds more detail)  

 MANILA, May 11 (Reuters) - The Philippine central bank governor said on Thursday the latest U.S. interest rate hikes was expected and did not change its own outlook at this time.  
   TD Last week, the Philippine central bank kept its overnight rates steady for a seventh month, and repeated it expected inflation to ease in the second half of 2006 as the impact of a higher sales tax fades and good harvests boost food supply.  

 "The Fed move was as expected. So it doesn't change the equation at this time," Amando Tetangco told reporters via a text message.  

 "Looking ahead, we will continue to be guided by an assessment of the inflation outlook, including possible causes of price pressures such as liquidity, exchange rate movements and other factors."  

 The U.S Federal Reserve lifted interest rates on Wednesday for a 16th straight time by 25 basis points to 5 percent, its highest since April 2001.  

 Philippine inflation dipped to 7.1 percent in April from a year earlier, compared to 7.6 percent in March, due to an easing in price increases for food, fuel and water.  

 But analysts said the cool-off was likely to be temporary and inflation would probably increase as the impact of high oil prices feeds through.  

 The central bank expects inflation to average 7.5 to 8.1 percent this year after 7.6 percent in 2005.    
   RFECONOMY-PHILIPPINES-RATE (UPDATE 1)|LANGEN|ABN|M|PHD|ABX|DNP   NSe1201 : Central Bank Intervention | e1202 : Interest Rates | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REphlns : Philippines | usa : United States | asiaz : Asia | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | namz : North America | seasiaz : Southeast Asia   IPCCEN | MCE | INT | STIR   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument LBA0000020060511e25b00065  



 HDGLOBAL MARKETS-Dollar rebounds, metals reach new peaks      BYBy Alex Richardson      WC750 words   PD11 May 2006   ET08:07   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006 Reuters Limited   
   LPSINGAPORE, May 11 (Reuters) - The dollar rebounded on Thursday, after the U.S. Treasury stopped short of naming China a currency manipulator and the Federal Reserve left the door open to further rises in interest rates.   

Gold hit a 25-year high and key industrial metal copper reached a record, prompting more gains for shares in miners such as Rio Tinto, but Asian stock markets were mostly flat-to-lower, finding little direction from the Fed.   
   TDOil extended this week's rally by climbing above $72 a barrel, building on a 2 percent gain on Wednesday, as U.S. refinery problems raised gasoline supply concerns.   

After taking a battering for days, the dollar found a reprieve on Thursday.   

It rose against the yen after hitting an eight-month low on Wednesday and firmed from a one-year low against the euro.   

"The short-term fear of a dollar crash has gone," said the chief trader at a European investment bank in Tokyo. "From here on we should see a normal market."   

Tokyo's Nikkei <.N225> ended the morning session 0.1 percent lower, while MSCI's broadest index of non-Japan Asian shares <.MSCIAPJ> was down 0.4 percent at 0250 GMT.   

Japanese Internet group Softbank Corp rose 1 percent after posting record profits on Wednesday and forecasting further growth. Olympus Corp. jumped 4.4 percent on a better-than-expected earnings forecast, also posted Wednesday.   

The U.S. central bank raised its key interest rate by a quarter of a percentage point for the 16th straight time on Wednesday, taking it to 5 percent, as expected.   

But all eyes were on the accompanying statement, which was viewed as slightly more hawkish than expected by suggesting further rate increases might be needed to fight inflation.   

"The statement was the same as before, and doesn't give us a clue as to which way we should go," said Hiroichi Nishi, general manager of equity marketing at Nikko Cordial Securities.   

The Dow Jones industrial average <.DJI> closed flat and the Nasdaq Composite Index <.IXIC> fell 0.8 percent.   

YUAN PROXY   

The dollar bought around 111.15 yen <JPY=> at 0215 GMT, having fallen as low at 110.10 yen on Wednesday. The euro <EUR=> was around $1.2734, down from around $1.2785 and below a one-year high of $1.2838 reached the previous day.   

Wednesday's much-anticipated U.S. Treasury report on currency practices was viewed in the market as positive for the dollar, especially against Asian currencies such as the yen, seen as a proxy for China's yuan <CNY=CFXS>.   

It did not name China a currency manipulator, but Treasury Secretary John Snow said in a statement the Bush administration was "extremely dissatisfied" with the slow pace at which Beijing was adopting a more flexible currency regime.   

Gold <XAU=> reached a quarter century peak of $709 an ounce while Shanghai copper futures <0#SCF:> jumped by their daily limits to a record and the benchmark London Metal Exchange copper contract <MCU3> hit a new record above $8,100 a tonne.   

Funds and other investors have poured money into commodities as industrial metals outperform more traditional assets, while robust global demand and falling stocks have supported prices.   

The world's top miner, BHP Billiton , firmed 0.9 percent, while number-two Rio Tinto gained 1.2 percent and gold miner Newcrest Mining Ltd. rose 1.3 percent.   

Australia's S&P ASX 200 <.AXJO> was up 0.1 percent and Seoul's benchmark index <.KS11> slipped 0.1 percent, with little immediate impact seen from the Bank of Korea's expected decision to leave domestic interest rates unchanged.   

Hong Kong's Hang Seng <.HSI>, Singapore's Straits Times <.STI> and Taiwan's benchmark index <.TWII> were down between 0.3 percent and 0.6 percent.   

NYMEX crude for June delivery <CLc1> rose 17 cents to $72.30 a barrel, heading back towards record prices above $75 hit last month.   

Crude futures surged $1.44 on Wednesday because of problems at U.S. two refineries. Worries over a possible supply disruption from exporter Iran due to its nuclear row with the West continued to support the market.   

Benchmark 10-year Japanese government bond yields <0#JPTSY=JBTC> fell 1.5 basis points to 1.975 percent, slipping back from Wednesday's 2.005 percent, the highest since August 1999.   
   RFGLOBAL MARKETS|LANGEN|GNN|DNP   NSmcroil : Crude Oil Markets | m1421 : Gold Markets | e1202 : Interest Rates | m11 : Equity Markets | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | m14 : Commodity Markets | m142 : Metals Markets | m143 : Energy Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mpcsmt : Precious Metals Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument LBA0000020060511e25b000ps  



 HDUS SWAPS-Recover after brief weakness on FOMC     WC429 words   PD10 May 2006   ET22:35   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006 Reuters Limited  
   LPNEW YORK, May 10 (Reuters) - U.S. swap spreads ended steady to tighter on Wednesday after a brief widening on a Federal Reserve policy statement, signaling that the Fed could raise interest rates further to curb inflation, analysts said.  

Swap spreads were unchanged to 0.75 basis point narrower than late Tuesday. They briefly widened by 0.50 basis point moments after the release of the statement of the Federal Open Market Committee at the end of its one-day policy meeting.  
   TD"There were a lot of people happy to receive (in swaps) after spreads widened," said Jon Blumenfeld, an interest-rate strategist at Bear Stearns in New York.  

In addition to bargain-hunting, upcoming corporate supply and the Treasury's auction of $13 billion of new 10-year notes on Thursday kept a lid on swap spread widening, analysts said.  

Moreover, the two-year swap spread narrowed with Eurodollar futures <0#ED:>, which outperformed two-year Treasury notes <US2YT=RR> in the wake of the FOMC statement.  

The FOMC, the Fed's policy arm, raised the fed funds rate by 25 basis points, as expected, to 5 percent, the highest level since April 2001.  

The bond market fell on the initial negative trader sentiment to the FOMC statement, which did not pledge an end to the Fed's nearly two-year-old campaign to tighten monetary policy, Then, the market quickly recovered as traders reconsidered that the Fed may pause at least until late summer, analysts said.  

"They may be looking at more of a definitive wording for a pause," said Jon Basile, a Credit Suisse economist in New York.  

The FOMC said it believes that "some further policy firming may yet be needed to address inflation risks," but added that any more increases will depend on the strength of future economic data.  

In the aftermath of the FOMC statement, the two-year swap yield was 5.43 percent, up 1 basis point from late Tuesday, while the 10-year swap yield was unchanged at 5.63 percent.  

The benchmark 10-year Treasury note <US10YT=RR> was unchanged in price to yield 5.13 percent.  

Even if yields continue to climb, investor appetite for spread products should remain strong, a climate that will keep swap spreads at their current tight levels, analysts said.  

"Even if we move to higher yields, it doesn't mean we'll have wider swap spreads," Bear's Blumenfeld said.  
   RFMARKETS-SWAPS|LANGEN|Table|ABN|E|RBN|D|M|MNI|U|RNP|DNP   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | m131 : Money Markets | m15 : Derivative Securities | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mcpdbt : Corporate Debt/Bond Markets | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCINT | MCE | DBT | DRV | STIR | MMT | MUNI | SWP/ | EMBG:DBT | EMBG:SWP/ | embargokeyE2   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument LBA0000020060513e25a000ev  



 HDNear-term Treasury yield curve bets falter after Fed     BYBy John Parry     WC766 words   PD11 May 2006   ET00:02   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006 Reuters Limited  
   LPNEW YORK, May 10 (Reuters) - Persistent uncertainty about whether U.S. interest rates have finally reached a peak after Wednesday's Federal Reserve rate increase is making investors a bit wary about short-term Treasury debt in the near term.  

But longer-term, once the bond market becomes convinced the Fed has halted its cycle of rate rises, short maturities may rally and longer bonds could falter as traders factor in inflation risks. That would likely widen the yield gap of longer-dated debt over shorter-dated Treasuries -- the so-called yield curve.  
   TDFor now, market bets that the curve will steepen may be put on hold because of the danger that two-year yields will rise if economic data comes in strong enough to force the Fed to boost rates more to curb inflation, analysts say.  

The two-year note's <US2YT=RR> yield, which responds closely to expectations on official rate moves, was at 4.99 percent late on Wednesday, 14 basis points below the 10-year's 5.13 percent <US10YT=RR>.  

"In the short run we are going to get more uncertainty, and the curve should be flattening," said Scott Peng, head of U.S. interest rate strategy with Citigroup in New York. "Over the long haul you would expect the yield curve to eventually steepen, but we view the timing of the start of the steepening with great uncertainty."  

He added: "It doesn't make sense to get into that trade right now, which is very crowded (and is) susceptible to a flattening correction."  

After raising the federal funds target rate for the 16th straight time, to 5 percent, on Wednesday, the Federal Open Market Committee said in its accompanying statement that "some further policy firming may yet be needed to address inflation risks."  

That could put more upward pressure, for a time, on two-year yields.  

Historically, an inverted yield curve, as occurred earlier this year -- with long-maturity debt yields falling below those of shorter maturities -- has signaled a recession in the ensuing six to 12 months. The yield curve has generally been steepening since late March.  

Analysts expect the curve to flatten somewhat in the near term, but not to re-invert.  

"The Fed statement brings the June meeting back more into play," said Peng.  

Looking beyond the next policy meeting in late June and the following one in August, fixed-income strategists are on alert for signs that surging energy and other commodities prices may filter increasingly into core inflation gauges. That will push up longer-maturities yields more steeply than those on shorter maturities, steepening the curve substantially, they said.  

SUMMER LULL, THEN STEEPENING  

"We would expect them (the Fed) to take the summer off and analyze the data and see what happens with commodity prices -- and see if there is any follow-through into inflation at the consumer level," said Kevin Cronin, head of investments with Putnam Investments in Boston.  

If economic data is not too strong and allows the Fed to hold rates at 5 percent in June, yield curve steepening could recommence as soon as next month, some expect.  

"As far as the FOMC is concerned, everything is data- dependent," said John Canavan, market analyst at research company Stone & McCarthy in Princeton, New Jersey. "I expect the economy will remain firm but slow to a more sustainable pace. That will allow the Fed to pause in June.  

"That will leave us with a continued steepening of the curve; the first place we head to is 35 basis points between two-year and 10-year notes," he said.  

On Wednesday, the yield curve flattened after the Fed rate hike to 14 basis points from 16 basis points as bond traders sensed the Fed might be disposed to raise rates again, more than previously thought.  

But the flattening is unlikely to become a sustained trend.  

"We would expect to see some risk premium built back into the yield curve given the current level of commodities and wage pressures we are seeing," said Putnam Investments' Cronin.  

Some analysts expect the gap between two-year and 10-year notes to widen to between 40 and 50 basis points by the end of September,  

If the fed funds rate remains at 5 percent and inflation concerns remain through year-end, the 10-year note's yield could rise to between 5.75 percent and 6 percent, from 5.13 percent late on Wednesday, Cronin said.  
   RFMARKETS-BONDS-CURVE|LANGEN|ABN|D|MNI   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | gcat : Political/General News | gvtre : Treasury Department | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m131 : Money Markets | m15 : Derivative Securities | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mcpdbt : Corporate Debt/Bond Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ntop : Dow Jones/Reuters Top Wire News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | gvexe : Executive Branch | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCDBT | GVD | MUNI | INT | MCE | STIR | DRV | MMT | NEWS | US/ | US/N | EMBG:DBT | embargokeyE1   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument LBA0000020060513e25a000g7  



 HDU.S. Treasuries slip ahead of 10-year note auction     BYBy Pedro Nicolaci da Costa     WC433 words   PD11 May 2006   ET14:19   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006 Reuters Limited  
   LP(Recasts, adds comments, updates prices)  

NEW YORK, May 11 (Reuters) - U.S. Treasury debt prices fell on Thursday as dealers looked to cheapen longer-dated issues before an auction of $13 billion of 10-year notes.  
   TDData on retail sales proved weaker than forecasts but not enough to alter the market's outlook on official interest rates.  

"We have a 10-year auction today and I think there was some expectation that economic data could have been worse -- all of a sudden, there was some selling," said Ted Ake, head of bond trading with Mizuho Securities USA in New York.  

Benchmark 10-year notes <US10YT=RR> slipped 7/32 and were yielding 5.16 percent, close to a four-year high and up from 5.13 percent Wednesday.  

Market strategists also cited some spillover from a sharp decline in the German Bund market, where yields were hitting 20-month highs.  

"The U.S. bond market traded down in sympathy," said Andrew Brenner, head of fixed income at Hapoalim Securities.  

The Federal Reserve boosted its target federal funds rate to 5 percent on Wednesday, leaving the door open to a pause in tightening but also not discounting the possibility that it might resume rate increases later.  

With the Fed on the fence, so was the market. A majority of primary bond dealers believe the Fed is done, according to the latest Reuters poll, but a significant minority still see the central bank boosting rates further.  

"They don't know if they are going to pause or continue, and we don't know" said David Sloan, senior economist at 4Cast Ltd.  

Two-year notes <US2YT=RR> were flat and yielding 5.00 percent, while five-year notes <US5YT=RR> dipped 2/32 and were offering a yield of 5.04 percent. The 30-year bond <US30YT=RR> dropped 17/32 to yield 5.23 percent from 5.20 percent.  

In one of the week's few notable data releases, retail sales climbed 0.5 percent last month following a 0.6 percent gain in March, and beneath forecasts for a 0.7 percent gain.  

Sales excluding autos also fell short of predictions, coming in at 0.7 percent against estimates of 0.9 percent. For more details, see [nN10392065].  

Analysts said the reading was too inconclusive to influence the Fed's interest-rate policy decisions. (Additional reporting by John Parry)  
   RFMARKETS-BONDS (UPDATE 3)|LANGEN|ABN|D|E|RBN|U|M|MNI|J|UKI|AUF|RNP|DNP   COmizsec : Mizuho Securities Co | mizfin : Mizuho Financial Group, Inc   INi64 : Retail/Wholesale | i831 : Financial Investments | i83102 : Security Brokering/Dealing | iinv : Investing/Securities   NSe1201 : Central Bank Intervention | e1202 : Interest Rates | gcat : Political/General News | m131 : Money Markets | m15 : Derivative Securities | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mcpdbt : Corporate Debt/Bond Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ntop : Dow Jones/Reuters Top Wire News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCDBT | GVD | MUNI | INT | MCE | STIR | DRV | MMT | NEWS | US/ | US/N | FED | RET | EMBG:DBT | embargokeyE1R1:1   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument LBA0000020060511e25b001om  



 HDUPDATE 1-US rate futures stagnate after April retail sales      WC326 words   PD11 May 2006   ET14:37   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006 Reuters Limited   
   LP(Adds details)   

CHICAGO, May 11 (Reuters) - U.S. short-term interest rate futures quickly retreated on Thursday after a mild rally when U.S. April retail sales fell short of forecasts.   
   TDChances of another Federal Reserve rate increase in June <FFN6> rose to 40 percent, in line with Wednesday's close, after slipping to 36 percent on the data.   

The U.S. Commerce Department said April retail sales rose by 0.5 percent, and excluding autos were up 0.7 percent -- in both cases a shade below median Wall Street forecasts.   

Sales excluding high-priced gasoline edged up just 0.1 percent after rising 0.7 percent in March, casting doubt on consumer demand and bolstering the case for a Fed rate pause.   

Even so, analysts said the report failed to trigger heavy buying in futures, especially following Wednesday's Federal Open Market Committee meeting, when short-term U.S. interest rates were raised a quarter percentage point, as expected.   

"These data are unlikely to have much impact on the Fed," said Richard Iley, senior economist, North America, at BNP Paribas in New York.   

At a time when many look for the Fed to hold the benchmark federal funds rate at 5 percent after 16 consecutive increases, the FOMC's statement kept the focus on inflation risks.   

"Upside potential (in futures) looks to be capped at current levels. The focus ... will continue to be numbers related to inflation and inflationary pressures," said Rudy Narvas, analyst at 4CAST Ltd.   

Also on Thursday, U.S. initial jobless claims for the week ended May 6 were 324,000, above the Wall Street median forecast of 315,000.   

However, continued claims fell to the lowest since January 2001, suggesting continued strength in the labor market that could keep wage inflation worries alive.   
   RFMARKETS-FEDFUNDS-RETAIL (UPDATE 1)|LANGEN|ABN|E|RBN|M|D|U|MNI|RNP|DNP   INibcs : Business/Consumer Services | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe1105 : Consumer Sentiment | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | e1202 : Interest Rates | m131 : Money Markets | m15 : Derivative Securities | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mcpdbt : Corporate Debt/Bond Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | e1107 : Retail/Wholesale Sales   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCMUNI | DBT | FED | GVD | DRV | INT | MCE | CEN | MMT | STIR | FIN | BNK   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument LBA0000020060511e25b001q6  
 Page 1 of 1      2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.


 

 Page 1      2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.

