 


 HDFT.com site : Dollar steady ahead of US rate decision.   BYPeter Garnham    WC665 words   PD29 June 2006   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPThe dollar marked time against the euro and the yen on Thursday as investors awaited clues from the Federal Reserve over the future path of US interest rates.

The dollar ticked 0.1 per cent higher against the yen to Y116.45 and climbed just 0.1 per cent against the euro to $1.2546 in quiet trade ahead of the US central bank's interest rate decision, due at 18.15GMT.
   TDThe Federal Reserve was widely expected to raise US interest rates for the seventeenth policy meeting in a row from 5 per cent to 5.25 per cent, however analysts said the market would be looking for any pointers over future US monetary policy.

Rob Carnell, economist at ING, said the Federal Reserve did not like to surprise investors with its rate decisions, and with a 25 basis point rate rise universally expected by the consensus of economists, all eyes would naturally turn to the accompanying statement to ascertain what was coming next.

According to Mr Carnell, the Federal Reserve might have backed itself into a corner over monetary policy and seek to shift the basis for future rate decisions away from fears over inflationary pressure towards concerns over growth.

"The slowdown in US growth so far, although clear, has been insufficiently decisive to determine rate decisions. But with the Treasury bond market acting as an anti-inflation 'vigilante', any thoughts the Fed might have had about riding out short-term increases in core inflation have looked likely to be 'punished' by higher yields and lower growth," said Mr Carnell. "It is very likely that the Fed will want to take back control of monetary policy from the bond and money markets at this meeting. The most obvious thing for the Fed to do would be to back-pedal from the data dependency clause in the statement."

However, Ashraf Laidi, chief currency analyst at MG Financial Group, said he thought the Federal Reserve would keep its options open and keep the phrase "some further policy firming may be needed" in the statement, given recurring inflationary expectations in the US coupled with the recent bounce in oil prices.

"Any doubts that the tightening cycle would end this summer due to evident signs of an economic slowdown have been dispelled by a set of data releases that did not convey sufficient urgency to shadow the Fed's immediate battle on inflation," he said.

Elsewhere, the pressure on the Bank of Japan governor Toshihiko Fukui continued over his investment with a fund manager now indicted for insider trading.

Kozo Yamamoto, head of the ruling Liberal Democratic Party's monetary policy panel, became the first senior politician form the party to call for Mr Fukui's exit, saying he should resign "immediately".

Derek Halpenny, senior economist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, said Mr Yamamoto has long been "anti-BOJ" and his call was unlikely to hold much sway with other more senior members of the Japanese government.

However, Mr Halpenny said Mr Yamamoto's call would ensure that the media attention on the affair was maintained and the longer the damaging affair remained in the media spotlight the more difficult it would become for Governor Fukui to remain in office.

"Whatever the outcome, a July rate hike followed by a long pause is still the likeliest course of monetary policy in Japan which may contrast with the outlook of policy in the US if this evening's statement is similar to the statement on May 10," said Mr Halpenny. "That realisation could well be the catalyst for the next lurch upwards in the dollar against the yen".

Sterling fell 0.2 per cent against the dollar to $1.8155 and lost 0.1 per cent against the euro to GBP0.6909 after figures from the Nationwide Building Society revealed house prices had risen a weaker-than-expected 0.3 per cent in June. 
   RF49855918   INi81401 : Central Banking | i831 : Financial Investments | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | iinv : Investing/Securities   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | c33 : Contracts/Orders | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | e52 : Euro Zone/Currency | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTCOM00020060630e26t0000s  



 HDFT.com site : Soaring eurozone borrowing increases risk of rate rise.   BYRalph Atkins in Frankfurt    WC524 words   PD29 June 2006   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPSoaring private sector borrowing and eurozone money supply figures on Thursday gave extra ammunition to European Central Bank hardliners in the battle against inflation ahead of next week's interest rate setting meeting.

The latest data, highlighting the robustness of the eurozone's economic upswing, will exacerbate ECB fears about the distortions caused by low interest rates. However, Jean-Claude Trichet, ECB president, has so far not given any indication that the central bank might step up the speed of interest rate rises. The ECB was last night waiting to digest the US Federal Reserve's latest statement.
   TDGrowth in M3, the broad money supply - which the ECB regards as indicating long-term price trends - accelerated from 8.7 per cent a year in April to 8.9 per cent in May. That was the fastest since April 2003, when it also hit 8.9 per cent, but otherwise the highest since 1990.

Lending to the private sector grew by 11.4 per cent in May, unchanged from April, but otherwise the fastest since late 1989.

With business confidence in Germany, the eurozone's largest economy, this week hitting a fresh 15-year high and the country's unemployment figures yesterday showing a sharper than expected fall, financial markets have attributed a significantly higher probability to an acceleration in the pace of ECB monetary policy tightening.

"If the money and credit data mean anything to the ECB, surely they might now persuade it to act sooner rather than later," said Julian Callow, economist at Barclays Capital.

The ECB lifted its main interest rate by a quarter percentage point to 2.75 per cent on June 8 and is expected to leave borrowing costs unchanged next week. An August 31 rise has been expected by many analysts. But speculation has mounted about a rise on August 3, when traditionally the governing council meets by tele-conference. The ECB has never previously lifted rates at its early August meeting.

At least some members of the ECB's governing council will urge caution, however. Mr Trichet - who avoided references to monetary policy in a speech in Munich yesterday - has made clear that the central bank looks at longer-term trends, rather than volatile monthly numbers. "In all likelihood we will get a message next week from Mr Trichet to calm down," said Elga Bartsch, economist at Morgan Stanley. She added that "you could argue that there is a World Cup factor in almost every German [economic] number".

The German jobless figures, showing a 49,000 fall in the seasonally-adjusted total to 4.54m this month, added to the evidence that Europe's largest economy is stirring after years of sluggish growth.

Employment figures also saw a modest rise for the fourth consecutive month. However, German labour market trends remain confused by the impact of social security reforms.

Separate German manufacturing orders figures showed growth continuing, although the trend pace may have slowed. Orders leapt 4.1 per cent in April after a fall of the same size the previous month. 
   RF49864941   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | e1102 : Money Supply | e52 : Euro Zone/Currency | ecat : Economic News | ecbnk : European Central Bank | eec : European Union | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTCOM00020060630e26t0002p  



 HDFT.com site : Financial and oil stocks lead European rally.   BYNeil Dennis    WC493 words   PD29 June 2006   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPEuropean equities staged a broad-based rally on Thursday, with oil and financial heavyweights up front as investors shrugged off concerns over inflation ahead of the US Federal Reserve's latest interest rate call.

In early trade, the FTSE Eurofirst 300 was up 0.8 per cent to 1,282.40, while Frankfurt's Xetra Dax added 0.8 per cent to 5,500.06. In Paris, the CAC 40 climbed 0.8 per cent to 4,814.01 and London's FTSE 100 gained 0.8 per cent to 5,721.2.
   TDIn New York overnight, the Dow Jones Industrial Average added 0.5 per cent to 10,973.56, while the Nasdaq Composite gained 0.6 per cent to 2,111.84. Later in the US session on Thursday, the Federal Reserve is expected to raise interest rates for the 17th-consecutive time, by a quarter point to 5.25 per cent.

Back in Europe, and heavily-weighted energy and financial stocks led the way, with oil companies benefiting from stable crude prices near recent highs of $72 a barrel. Norway's Statoil added 2.3 per cent to NKr177, while Repsol of Spain gained 1.3 per cent to ?21.86 and Finnish refiner Neste Oil climbed 2.2 per cent to ?26.40.

Britain's BP rose 1 per cent to 615p in spite of facing pressure from the US futures trading regulator, which filed a complaint to a district court in Illinois alleging propane price manipulation.

The Commodity Futures Trading Commission said BP in February 2004 had "with the knowledge, advice and consent of senior management" tried to manipulate US propane prices by cornering the market.

Financial sector gains came in spite of increasing expectations that the European Central Bank will continue raising eurozone interest rates, cooling credit demand. But as equity markets climbed, so too did French insurer Axa by 1.5 per cent to ?25.05, Zurich Financial by 1.2 per cent to SFr266 and Dutch life insurer Aegon by 1.2 per cent to ?12.98.

Embattled aerospace company EADS faced mixed news. TAM, Brazil's biggest airline, agreed to purchase 37 Airbus aircraft, but investment bank JPMorgan was unimpressed as it cut its target price on the stock to ?24 due to the fallout from Airbus delivery delays.

The broker said EADS had lost management credibility and political intervention threw doubt over whether the company could be run in the best interest of shareholders. On Wednesday, chief executive Noel Forgeard told a French parliamentary committee he would not resign. Shares gained 0.3 per cent to ?21.30.

BASF and Bayer, rival German drugs and chemicals groups, rose after ING raised its ratings on both stocks to "buy" from "hold". BASF added 0.6 per cent to ?60.27 and Bayer was 0.6 per cent higher at ?33.52. 
   RF49851816   COnia : European Aeronautic Defence and Space Company N.V - EADS   INi81401 : Central Banking | i831 : Financial Investments | i814 : Banking | iaer : Aerospace/Defense | ibnk : Banking/Credit | iinv : Investing/Securities   NSm11 : Equity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | c33 : Contracts/Orders | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter   REeurz : Europe | fra : France | gfr : Germany | usa : United States | eecz : European Union Countries | medz : Mediterranean | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTCOM00020060630e26t00008  



 HDFT.com site : Treasuries rise as investors await rate rise.   BYJennifer Hughes in New York, Joanna Chung in London and David Turner in Tokyo    WC432 words   PD29 June 2006   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPUS Treasuries rose and yields slipped on Thursday as investors readied for a much talked about relief rally if the Federal Reserve, as expected, raised rates by a quarter-point to 5.25 per cent.

The central bank was due to make its announcement in the middle of the US afternoon.
   TDBy midday in New York, yields on two-year notes were off 2.9 basis points at 5.254 per cent while 10-year yields dipped 3.1bp to 5.220 per cent

"The market appears well positioned for a modest relief rally led by the front end, assuming the Fed limits its tightening to 25bp and delivers a balanced assessment of the risks and policy direction," said David Ader at RBS Greenwich Capital. "At this point, it is hard not to like the market with 10s near their cheapest levels of the cycle."

Eurozone government bonds rose, clawing back the sharp losses in recent sessions, as investors positioned themselves ahead of the US Federal Reserve meeting.

This was in spite of money supply in the region growing slightly above forecast, rising to 8.9 per cent in May, while April growth was revised down to from 8.8 to 8.7 per cent.

In late trading, the yield on the two-year Schatz was down 3.8bp to 3.563 per cent while the 10-year Bund yield was 3.5bp lower at 4.061 per cent.

Gilts perked up after Bank of England interest-rate setters, speaking before the Treasury Select Committee, indicated that imminent rate increases were unlikely. The benchmark rate has remained at 4.5 per cent since August last year.

The yield on the two-year gilt lost 3.8bp to 4.808 per cent and the yield on the 10-year gilt fell 3.2bp to 4.714 per cent.

Meanwhile, UK mortgage lending data and the number of approvals for house purchases, often seen as a good indicator of future demand in the property sector, were strong.

The yields on Japanese government bonds crept up across the maturities on expectations of a rate rise by the US Fed.

But analysts warned that yields could tumble again if the raft of domestic economic figures out this morning, including consumer price data, struck a dovish tone.

The yield on the benchmark 10-year rose 1bp to 1.925 per cent. The five-year yield gained 2bp to 0.875 per cent. 
   RF49862666   COrbsct : Royal Bank of Scotland Group PLC   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSm12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mntdbt : National Government Debt/Bond Markets | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTCOM00020060630e26t0001t  



 HDFT.com site : Dollar extends fall after Fed rate call.   BYNeil Dennis    WC340 words   PD30 June 2006   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPThe dollar continued to fall on Friday, adding to the sharp losses of the previous session prompted by expectations that US interest rates will soon be held in check after two years of steady increases.

The Federal Reserve lifted the main refinancing rate by 25 basis points to 5.25 per cent on Thursday, a widely expected move and the 17th consecutive increase. But the central bank was less hawkish on inflation than many in the currencies market had anticipated, sending the dollar, which had stood near a two-month high against the euro, to a three-week low.
   TDInflation remained a concern, the Federal Open Market Committee said, putting more emphasis on moderating growth conditions. "The dollar will lose its interest-rate support and cyclical growth support here," said analysts at BNP Paribas.

Standing at $1.2529 ahead of the FOMC statement, the euro spiked 1 per cent against the dollar to $1.2658 within minutes. The euro resumed its rise into Asian trade, and by mid-morning in London was up to $1.2711.

The pound got an additional boost from an upward revision to first-quarter UK growth. Year-on-year gross domestic product growth in the quarter was revised modestly up to 2.3 per cent.

"The upward revisions to GDP growth since 2001 will increase the Bank of England's concern about the amount of spare capacity in the UK economy, which was highlighted as one of the main upside risks to inflation in the June Monetary Policy Committee minutes," said Howard Archer at Global Insight.

He added: "This increases the odds of an interest rate hike before the end of the year, although the MPC currently seems in no hurry to act and we believe that it will wait until 2007."

Sterling also spiked 1 per cent within minutes of the FOMC announcement and continued its rally against the dollar to $1.8329, up 0.3 per cent on the session. 
   RF49880731   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTCOM00020060701e26u0000j  



 HDFT.com site : US interest rates.   WC340 words   PD30 June 2006   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPThe Federal Reserve's hand-holding is finally coming to an end. At its latest meeting, it delivered yet another, well-flagged quarter-point interest rate rise, taking Fed funds to 5.25 per cent. That - coupled with the Fed's concerted campaign to bolster the inflation-fighting credibility of Ben Bernanke - should help increase confidence in the new chairman after a shaky start.

But, for the first time in over a year, the accompanying statement really did leave the Fed's hands free for its next meeting after 17 consecutive hikes. The Fed toned down its language a notch further from the previous wording of "some further policy firming may yet be needed to address inflation risks". The next move will depend on the data that emerge on inflation and growth over the next six weeks.
   TDThat will not, however, make the decision easy. The big challenge for the Fed will be balancing confidence in its own forecasts against pressure to react to the inherently backward-looking figures on growth and inflation that will be released between now and August 8.

The Fed stated clearly on Thursday that - while growth is moderating and inflation has been high in recent months - it continues to believe the very fact that the economy is slowing should help to keep a lid on inflation.

That said, the Fed has no better crystal ball than the markets. It cannot be sure what it will do next. As it nears the top of the interest rate cycle, it makes sense for the Fed to widen its room for manoeuvre as far as possible.

It could yet be faced with the problem of backward-looking data being at odds with the economic story that it expects to unfold into the future.

Even if the Fed remains convinced that long-term inflation is under control, more uncomfortably high numbers next month would probably see it forced into another hike to avoid a further wobble in its credibility with the markets. 
   RF49868656   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTCOM00020060630e26u0003l  



 HDFT.com site : Market Overview: Few indications of market nerves ahead of Fed's rate statement.   BYTony Tassell    WC647 words   PD29 June 2006   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPIf financial markets were fearful ahead of the outcome of the US Federal Reserve meeting on interest rate policy yesterday, there was little evidence of it.

In trading leading up to the Fed's statement, equity markets rallied strongly around the globe, US treasuries firmed and commodities jumped.
   TDAnalysts said markets had already fully priced in another quarter-point in the benchmark Fed funds rate to 5.25 per cent - the seventeenth successive increase in the current cycle. But recent speculation that the Fed might raise rates by 50 basis points had faded.

Elliot Spar, strategist at Ryan &Beck, said that factor had supported the US market's gains yesterday and Wednesday. He said providing the Fed statement accompanying its decision was not too hawkish, it could mark the beginning of a "relief rally".

Mr Spar said there were many "sideline" investors who were waiting for the Fed decision to get out of the way and for the S&P 500 index to cross 1,262, its 200-day moving average - a key technical level.

However, he warned that if the statement was hawkish, then markets could fall sharply again.

By midday, the S&P 500 index was 0.8 per cent higher at 1,255.80 while the Dow Jones Industrial Average was 0.6 per cent up at 11,040.24. The Nasdaq Composite was 0.6 per cent higher at 2,124.40.

Sentiment was lifted by a slightly higher than expected revision in first-quarter gross domestic product from 5.3 per cent to 5.6 per cent. The core PCE (personal consumer expenditure) price deflator - the Fed's preferred measure of inflation that is part of the GDP data - was unrevised at 2.0 per cent but lower than the fourth-quarter rate of 2.4 per cent.

In Europe, the FTSE Eurofirst 300 index jumped 1.8 per cent to 1,295.22. In Asia, stocks also rose strongly, partly in response to the gains on Wall Street's Wednesday session. The Nikkei 225 index rose 1.6 per cent to 15,121 in Tokyo while the Kospi index advanced 2 per cent to 1,263.02 in Seoul.

Bond markets were also stronger ahead of the rate decision. Yields on 10-year US Treasuries fell 3.1bps to 5.22 per cent.

In commodity markets, oil rose $1.21 to $73.40, copper jumped 6.3 per cent to $7,335 a tonne and gold was up 1.2 per cent at $588.80 an ounce.

In currency markets the dollar was largely flat against the euro and yen.

Binit Patel and Salman Ahmed, economists at Goldman Sachs, cautioned that markets would continue to be driven by how well central banks walked the tightrope between tightening monetary policy to limit the rise in inflation and tightening policy too much.

"While economies in the rest of the world have the potential to decouple if the US slows, it is less clear that financial markets can decouple in the same way," they said.

Albert Edwards, strategist at Dresdner Kleinwort, questioned how much of the recent turmoil was driven by uncertainty over the Fed's actions. He said a sudden reversal in risk appetite in the middle of May was entirely coincident with a dip in earnings momentum.

"Maybe too much weight is being put on central bank pronouncements rather than the boring old profits cycle," he said. "Any downturn in the profits typically has pronounced effects of equity volatility and the appetite for risk generally."

However, Mary Ann Bartels, technical analyst at Merrill Lynch, said of 22 S&P 500 companies to have reported so far, 71 per cent had beaten estimates, which was "well ahead of historical experience". 
   RF49862653   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSm11 : Equity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | gdip : International Relations | gvbod : Government Bodies | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTCOM00020060630e26t0001i  



 HDFT.com site : US crude spikes above $73 awaiting Fed.   BYChris Flood    WC496 words   PD29 June 2006   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPUS crude prices spiked above $73 a barrel as commodity markets sprang to life after several days of muted trading approaching the Federal Reserve interest rate announcement.

Nymex August West Texas Intermediate jumped $1.21 to $73.40 a barrel while IPE Brent surged $1.50 to $72.91.
   TDTraders suggested a number of related factors had pushed crude higher, including short-covering before the long Independence Day weekend. Crude has also risen for seven consecutive sessions, establishing a new trend, and this attracted specialist traders (Commodity Trading Advisors) who play short-term trends. Front-running of positions ahead of new funds entering commodity markets at the start of the new quarter next week also helped.

Kevin Norrish of Barclays Capital said the latest US data showing gasoline consumption running at 9.45m barrels a day cast doubt on the argument that high prices would damage oil demand.

"There has been very little deviation in the upward trend to US gasoline demand in the face of unprecedented volatility in pump prices over the past 12 months," said Mr Norrish.

Nymex July unleaded gasoline rose 6.7 cents to $2.2700 a gallon.

Rapidly growing demand for ethanol is expected to drive a record increase in industrial grain consumption next year.

The International Grains Council is forecasting that demand for grain for ethanol manufacture will jump by 30 per cent to 65m tonnes. This will drive a record 14 per cent rise in the industrial use of grain to 1.63m tonnes in 2006-07.

The two other main industrial uses for grain are starch and brewing, which are growing more in line with global gross domestic product. IGC forecasts grain demand for starch use will rise 5 per cent to 72m tonnes while brewing industry grain demand will rise 3 per cent to 31m tonnes.

CBOT July corn traded 2.5 cents higher at $228.5 a bushel while CBOT July wheat added 2.5 cents at $374.5 a bushel.

Gold rose 1.6 per cent to $588.80 a troy ounce after hitting a high of $591.80, spurring gains for other precious metals. Silver gained 2.6 per cent to $10.45 a troy ounce while platinum rose 0.8 per cent to $1,193 and palladium edged up 0.6 per cent to $309.

Short-covering before the long weekend helped copper rise 6.3 per cent to $7,335 a tonne. Traders said thin volumes meant price moves for base metals were being exaggerated.

Zinc jumped 5.6 per cent to $3,305 after London Metal Exchange stocks fell by a hefty 1,775 tonnes.

Nickel rose 3.3 per cent to $21,075 a tonne in spite of a 198 tonnes increase in LME stocks. Global nickel inventories have shrunk by 60 per cent this year and now stand at around 3 days of global daily consumption. 
   RF49862700   INi81401 : Central Banking | i831 : Financial Investments | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | iinv : Investing/Securities   NSm14 : Commodity Markets | m143 : Energy Markets | m15 : Derivative Securities | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | c33 : Contracts/Orders | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m142 : Metals Markets | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTCOM00020060630e26t00020  



 HDFT.com site : Turkey ups rates to stem lira sell-off.   BYVincent Boland in Ankara, Michael Bleby in Johannesburg, and Peter Garnham in London    WC553 words   PD28 June 2006   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPThe currencies of countries with gaping current account deficits took another battering on the foreign exchange markets on Wednesday amid expectations that the Federal Reserve will raise US interest rates on Thursday.

The Hungarian forint, the Icelandic krona and the New Zealand dollar all fell against the euro and the US dollar as investors looking to reduce their risk exposure fled emerging markets and countries that rely on global capital flows to finance high current account deficits.
   TDThe Turkish lira also fell initially but recovered after the Turkish central bank raised interest rates on Wednesday for the third time this month. The South African rand also rose on expectations that the central bank would raise rates because of rising inflation.

The most dramatic intervention was by the Turkish central bank, which has been battling a big sell-off in the lira, and rising inflation, for two months. The bank raised its lending rate by 200 basis points to 22.25 per cent in a move that it said was aimed at "enhancing the effectiveness and flexibility of liquidity management".

It is the third time this month that the bank has intervened to lift interest rates as investors fled emerging markets in a global sell-off that has hit Turkey especially hard. The bank raised its borrowing rate - its key policy rate - twice, by a combined 400 basis points, after two emergency meetings of its monetary policy committee.

The move helped the lira to stabilise and recover slightly against a basket of currencies. The lira closed 1.2 per cent higher against both the euro and the US dollar in London trading. Other emerging market currencies were weaker.

The Hungarian forint fell 0.9 per cent, the Icelandic krona fell 0.4 per cent, and the New Zealand dollar fell 1.1 per cent. The South African rand continued to climb back amid expectations that interest rates will rise to fight an inflationary spike. The rand has risen by nearly 3 per cent against the US dollar since Friday.

The Turkish central bank acted again in an attempt to persuade investors to hold the lira, analysts said. Mahmut Kaya, head of research at Garanti Securities, said: "There is a general perception that the lira is is still under pressure and can become weaker. The bank is trying to make staying in the lira more attractive."

Turkey's inflation rate has risen sharply in the past two months, and is threatening to move back into double figures by the end of the year, compared with the bank's target of 5 per cent. Along with worries about political developments ahead of next year's presidential and parliamentary elections, this rise is a key reason why the sell-off in the lira has been so dramatic in recent weeks.

The bank said the chances of inflation staying in single digits this year had increased after recent interest rate rises.

Ozgur Altug, chief economist at Raymond James Securities, said raising the lending rate would raise the cost of shorting the lira. Exploiting local liquidity was one way of launching a speculative attack on the lira, which the bank was seeking to prevent. 
   RF49837797   INi81401 : Central Banking | i831 : Financial Investments | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | iinv : Investing/Securities   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | c33 : Contracts/Orders | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1118 : Trade Figures | e511 : Capital Movements/Invisible Trade | e512 : Physical Trade | ecat : Economic News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e51 : Trade/External Payments | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter   REhung : Hungary | icel : Iceland | nz : New Zealand | turk : Turkey | usa : United States | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | balkz : Balkan States | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | eecz : European Union Countries | eeurz : Central/Eastern Europe | eurz : Europe | meastz : Middle East | medz : Mediterranean | namz : North America | nordz : Nordic Countries | wasiaz : Western Asia | weurz : Western Europe   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTCOM00020060629e26s0001u  



 HDFed's Latest Rate Boost Contains A Hint of a Pause, Lifting Stocks   BYBy Greg Ip and Mark Whitehouse    WC1,203 words   PD30 June 2006   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGA1   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 2006, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LPThe Federal Reserve raised interest rates for the 17th consecutive time, but its words suggested growing prospects for a pause in rate increases, helping to spark a rally in stock markets.

As widely expected, the central bank boosted its short-term interest-rate target to 5.25% from 5%. But for the first time since it began raising rates from a low of 1%, in June 2004, the Fed didn't explicitly say another rate increase was under consideration -- and markets took that as a welcome signal.
   TD"The extent and timing of any additional" rate increases "will depend on the evolution of the outlook for both inflation and economic growth," the Fed said in a statement. By contrast, the Fed's last statement, on May 10, said "some further" rate increases "may yet be needed."

The language shift reflects Fed officials' decreased confidence that they know now what they'll do next, given how much rates already have risen, its view that the economy is slowing and its concern over an unexpected rise in inflation that it nonetheless hopes is temporary. The new language doesn't rule out another rate increase, but gives the Fed added flexibility to base its decision more on coming economic data than on any previous guidance it gave to markets.

The Dow Jones Industrial Average, which was up about 80 points before the statement was released, soared to close 217.24 points higher, a gain of about 2%, its best day in more than three years. The Nasdaq Stock Market was up 3%, its biggest one-day rally since March 2004. Long-term bond yields edged down.

"The Fed was not as hawkish as investors expected, and we're seeing a 'relief rally' here," said David Ader, a strategist at RBS Greenwich Capital. Futures markets lowered the odds of a quarter-percentage point increase at the Fed's next meeting, on Aug. 8, to 60% from 80%.

The Fed statement acknowledged, as many Fed officials have in the last month, that recent measures of inflation have been "elevated." But it softened the sting by suggesting the Fed expects inflation to edge lower as the economy slows. "Economic growth is moderating," the statement said. "Although the moderation . . . should help to limit inflation pressures over time, the (Fed) judges that some inflation risks remain."

Mickey Levy, chief economist at Bank of America, termed it "a favorable statement from the market's perspective, but it's a risky statement from the Fed's perspective." Inflation is likely to accelerate over the next few months, reflecting the lagged impact of strong economic growth in recent years, he said, and that could force the Fed to raise rates again.

Economists, investors and even some on Capitol Hill have lately begun to worry the Fed might raise rates too much, tipping the economy into recession. That concern has been helping roil markets in recent weeks.

In a new Wall Street Journal survey, 12 of 56 economic forecasters said they saw a possible Fed "policy mistake" as the biggest risk to the U.S. economy in the next year -- a greater threat than a housing downturn, inflation, an energy-price crunch or avian flu. Six months earlier, only eight economists cited a Fed mistake as the biggest risk; a housing downturn was at the top of the list.

Some Fed officials share the worries about raising rates too far. All 10 voting members of the 17-member Federal Open Market Committee agreed to raise the target for the Federal funds rate, which is charged on overnight loans between banks. Two committee seats are vacant.

But two of 12 reserve banks did not request an accompanying increase in the less-important discount rate, which is charged on Fed loans to commercial banks. Their presidents -- Janet Yellen in San Francisco and Thomas Hoenig in Kansas City -- have recently warned of the risks of raising rates too much.

The Fed's statement attempts to balance the competing risks of slowing growth and rising inflation. The Commerce Department reported yesterday that the economy grew at a robust 5.6% annual pace in the first quarter. Economists believe growth slipped below 3% in the current quarter under the weight of higher oil prices and interest rates. At the same time, inflation has edged above what Fed officials sometimes call their "comfort zone."

After a period of rising interest rates, the economy often decelerates while inflation rises for a while. But that creates a challenge for new Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke, who faces the task of demonstrating he will be as tough on inflation as his predecessor, Alan Greenspan.

Mr. Bernanke suffered a setback in that effort when he first raised the possibility of a pause in interest-rate increases in April, causing some investors to question his anti-inflation resolve. To compensate, he and numerous other Fed officials in the past month have unleashed a rhetorical broadside, labeling recent inflation developments "unwelcome," "beyond acceptable," "corrosive" and "unhinged," raising market expectations of monetary tightening.

"Bernanke's a new Fed chairman and his credibility is on the line as an inflation fighter," said Scott Anderson, senior economist at Wells Fargo &Co. "That might push him to raise rates higher -- higher than Greenspan would have had to."

The Wall Street Journal survey doesn't see a Fed mistake as the most probable outcome. "That's a risk, that's not the expectation," said Peter Hooper, chief U.S. economist at Deutsche Bank Securities in New York. More than half of the economists in the Journal survey -- 31 of the 56 surveyed -- think the Fed will be able to control inflation without damaging the economy. Only a quarter believe the Fed will overshoot.

Mr. Bernanke likely will elaborate further on the Fed's view of the economy and interest-rate outlook when he testifies before Congress on July 19 as part of his semiannual monetary report.

Economists generally have a high opinion of Mr. Bernanke, who this week oversaw the Fed meeting for the third time. Survey respondents gave him a B-plus for his interest-rate decisions, a bit lower than the "A-minus" they gave him in an early May survey. Lehman Brothers chief U.S. economist Ethan Harris, who gave Mr. Bernanke an A, also gave the media a C for misinterpreting the Fed chairman.

Drew Matus, an economist at Lehman, said the latest statement, by raising the prospect of a pause, seems inconsistent with the hawkish rhetoric of the past month -- and as a result, the Fed could "get caught in another credibility issue." Yesterday, expected inflation, as implied by the behavior of inflation-indexed bonds, rose three-hundredths of a percentage point.

Following the Fed decision, commercial banks raised their prime rate, a benchmark for many consumer and business loans, to 8.25% from 8%.

---

Serena Ng contributed to this article.

---

Online Today: WSJ.com subscribers can read economists' reactions to the decision, plus see how the Fed's statement compares with the one released in May, at WSJ.com/OnlineToday. 





License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | ecat : Economic News | gvexe : Executive Branch | m131 : Money Markets | npag : Page-One Story | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCPIC | FED | USG | NND | TPX | MHD | PGO | TPT   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument J000000020060630e26u0003m  


 CLMCredit Markets   HDIn Junk Deals, Buyers Call the Shots --- Wider Risk Premiums Test Windstream, Nortel Offers; Treasury Prices End Slide   BYBy Tom Sullivan    WC1,211 words   PD28 June 2006   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGC5   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 2006, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LPInvestors in new high-yield offerings have the upper hand for the first time in months, and they are making the most of it, forcing issuers to pay up or pull out.

That poses a strong test for two companies from the telecommunication sector with jumbo deals this week: Windstream Communications and Nortel Networks.
   TDFor the past two months, junk bonds have held up remarkably well as other markets -- especially equities, commodities and emerging markets -- sold off amid interest-rate and economic uncertainty. But three weeks ago, high yield finally threw in the towel and risk premiums widened from near historically narrow levels.

Now that secondary prices have been driven lower, corporate borrowers are expected to pay the piper, especially after disappointing performances in the secondary market of two recent sizable offerings from Intelsat and HealthSouth.

Already this week, deals from Armor Holdings and truck-parts company FleetPride were yanked due to adverse market conditions. Other recent deals have offered concessions in price or covenant protection or both.

"It's definitely a buyers' market," said Patrick Bonebrake, analyst at high-yield research firm KDP Investment Advisors, Montpelier, Vt. But the price tags on bonds offered by Windstream and Nortel this week are quite attractive, KDP wrote in separate research notes.

Windstream is expected to sell $2.5 billion of bonds in two parts in the Rule 144a private-placement market via Merrill Lynch and JPMorgan on Wednesday. The company is being formed through the merger, expected to be completed in late July, of Alltel Corp.'s land-line business and Valor Communications Group Inc.

Fitch Ratings rates the deal as single-B-plus, its highest speculative-grade rating. That's two notches above those from Moody's Investors Service and Standard &Poor's.

The deal is comprised of $800 million of noncallable seven-year senior unsecured notes with a yield expected between 8% to 8.125% and $1.7 billion of 10-year senior unsecured notes, noncallable for five years, with a yield offered of 9%.

The offering could have come "50 to 75 (basis points) tighter two months ago," before volatility upended the equity market, said Melissa Weiler, portfolio manager at Los Angeles-based Trust Co. of the West, with more than $4 billion in high-yield assets.

Officials at Alltel weren't available to comment.

Thursday, Canadian telecom-equipment maker Nortel is expected to price a $2 billion three-part issue in the Rule 144a private-placement market via JP Morgan Securities and Citigroup Global Markets.

It includes noncallable floating-rate notes due 2011, expected to be sold at 4.25 percentage points over the London interbank offered rate, or Libor; noncallable fixed-rate notes due 2013 expected at a yield of 10% to 10.25%; and fixed-rated notes due 2016, noncallable for five years, expected at 10.50% to 10.75%.

"That's good yield for that paper," said KDP's Mr. Bonebrake.

The Nortel offering is rated single-B-minus by S&P and a comparable B3 by Moody's.

An accounting scandal in 2004 uncovered shortcomings in the company's books going back to 2001. Nortel says it is up-to-date with financial reports after a series of restatements.

The question for investors now is whether they "buy into the new management's aggressive cost cutting to increase incremental cash flow by (around) $1.5 billion in three years," Mr. Bonebrake said.

A Nortel spokesman declined to comment on the company's bond offering.

Nortel's deal will come as Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke and the rest of the Federal Open Market Committee are expected to raise the federal-funds rate on Thursday by 25 basis points to 5.25%.

Financing Set for Univision Buy

The private-equity consortium acquiring Univision Communications Inc. has hired Deutsche Bank AG and Credit Suisse Group to lead the $8.25 billion bank loan syndication and $2 billion high-yield bond offerings, respectively, to help finance the $12.3 billion leveraged buyout, according to a source familiar with the deal.

Deutsche Bank will be lead bookrunner on a $750 million revolving bank loan and $7.5 billion in first-lien term loans -- one of the largest ever, according to the source. Credit Suisse will be lead bookrunner on $2 billion of bonds. Bank of America and Wachovia Bank will participate in both the bank loan syndication and bond offering. The deal is expected to price in the first quarter of next year, according to the source.

Treasurys Close Higher

U.S. Treasury prices ended a nearly week-and-a-half-long losing streak and closed higher yesterday, as investors tweaked positions ahead of the Federal Reserve's policy meeting this week.

Beyond the need for positioning, falling stock prices also were giving lift to Treasurys, as trouble in that market often makes government bonds look attractive as a safe harbor to park cash.

In other events, the Treasury sold $22 billion in two-year notes at a yield of 5.239%, in a ho-hum sale. The bid to cover, a gauge of investor interest, stood at 2.28. The indirect bid, which gives insight into investor interest outside of the primary dealers who must bid in the sale, stood at 29.5%, in line with the recent average.

At 4 p.m., the benchmark 10-year note was up 9/32 point, or $2.8125 per $1,000 face value, at 99 12/32. Its yield fell to 5.208% from 5.245% Monday, as yields move inversely to prices. The 30-year bond was up 19/32 point at 88 31/32 to yield 5.237%, down from 5.280%. 


 
                           AUCTION RESULTS 
 
  Here are the results of yesterday's Treasury auctions. All bids are awarded 
at a single price at the market-clearing yield. Rates are determined by the 
difference between that price and the face value. 
 
                          TWO-YEAR NOTES 
 
Applications ...................................  $50,098,434,000 
Accepted bids ..................................  $22,000,092,000 
Bids at market-clearing yield accepted .........           16.87% 
Accepted noncompetitively ......................   $1,104,049,000 
" foreign noncompetitively .....................               $0 
Auction price (Rate) ........................... 99.786183(5.239%) 
Interest rate ..................................           5.125% 
Cusip Number ..................................         912828FJ4 
 
  The bills are dated June 30, 2006, and mature June 30, 2008. 
 
                         FOUR-WEEK BILLS 
 
Applications ...................................  $35,826,369,000 
Accepted bids ..................................  $15,000,007,000 
Accepted noncompetitively ......................     $310,069,000 
Foreign Noncompetitively .......................     $943,800,000 
Auction price (Rate) ........................... 99.628611(4.775%) 
Coupon equivalent ..............................           4.859% 
Bids at market-clearing yld accepted ...........           51.65% 
Cusip number ...................................        912795XN6 
 
  The bills are dated June 29, 2006, and mature July 27, 2006. 
   

Freddie Cuts Mortgage Bonds

Freddie Mac said it slightly reduced its holdings of mortgage bonds in May after two months of solid growth. The housing agency's retained, or investment, portfolio fell $706 million, for an annualized rate of growth of -1.2% in May. That cut annualized growth in the year to date to 4.4%.

In March and April, Freddie added $18.5 billion to its mortgage portfolio.

---

Michael S. Derby and Neil Shah contributed to this article. 

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   COnortel : Nortel Networks Corp   INi3303 : Networking | i7902 : Telecommunications | i79022 : Wireless Telecommunications Services | i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i3441 : Telecommunications Equipment | icomp : Computing   NSm12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | c1521 : Analyst Comment/Recommendation | c17 : Funding/Capital | c171 : Share Capital | c172 : Corporate Debt Instruments | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e1122 : Mortgage Applications/Refinancing | e1202 : Interest Rates | e212 : Government Borrowing | gvtre : Treasury Department | m131 : Money Markets | mntdbt : National Government Debt/Bond Markets | c15 : Performance | c152 : Earnings Projections | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e21 : Government Finance | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | gvexe : Executive Branch | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter   REcana : Canada | caon : Ontario | usa : United States | usar : Arkansas | ustx : Texas | usva : Virginia | namz : North America | uss : Southern U.S.   IPCEWR | TRE | USG | FCL | NND | TEC | TEL | TPX | CRD | MIM   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument J000000020060628e26s00024  



 CLMTuesday's Markets   HDStocks Tumble In Broad Selling Ahead of the Fed --- New Economic Data Boost Odds For Further Rise in Interest Rates; GM Sales Woes Hurt Blue Chips   BYBy Peter A. McKay    WC515 words   PD28 June 2006   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGC1   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 2006, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LPIT WAS A BAD DAY for companies that make things. Woes at most of the Dow Jones Industrial Average's truly industrial component companies sent the market tumbling more than 120 points.

General Motors shares nosedived 6.7% on worries about the auto makers' second-quarter sales. In particular, GM executives warned that year-over-year sales comparisons would be "brutal," considering that last year's totals were boosted by retail incentives programs.
   TDOther Dow components that fared poorly included Boeing, which announced that it is weighing the future of its troubled communications unit Connexion. And Vivendi SA announced that it is selling a stake in E.I. DuPont de Nemours &Co., commonly known as DuPont, in order to remove a tax liability from its balance sheet. Shares in Boeing and DuPont each fell more than 2%. Also, 3M shares fell 1.9%.

All together, the Dow shed 120.54 points, or 1.1%, to close at 10924.74, up 1.9% this year. The Standard &Poor's 500-stock index fell 0.9%, or 11.36 points, to 1239.20, off 0.7% for the year. And the Nasdaq Composite Index fell 1.6%, or 33.42 points, to 2100.25, off 4.8% for the year.

Two new pieces of economic data defied Wall Street expectations, in turn raising fears of higher interest rates ahead of the two-day meeting of Federal Reserve policymakers that begins today and ends tomorrow.

According to the National Association of Realtors, sales of existing homes fell 1.2% in May, smaller than the 1.8% drop expected by Wall Street. Also, the Conference Board reported that its consumer-confidence index rose to 105.7 in June, contrary to expectations for a dip.

Many investors fear the U.S. central bank will prolong its series of interest-rate increases beyond this summer. The Fed is widely expected to make another quarter-point increase in its key interest rate to 5.25% at this week's meeting. Prices of federal-funds futures on the Chicago Board of Trade yesterday reflected nearly 100% certainty by traders regarding such a move.

"A quarter-point hike, at this point, is entirely consistent with the Fed's desire to fight inflation," said Mickey Levy, chief economist at Bank of America. "In their statement, I think they will also acknowledge there's been upward pressure on inflation recently."

In major U.S. market action:

Bond prices rose. The 10-year Treasury note rose 9/32, or $2.8125 for each $1,000 invested, pushing the yield down to 5.208%. The 30-year Treasury rose 19/32 to yield 5.237%.

The dollar was mixed. Late in New York, it traded at 116.28 yen, slightly down from 116.29 yen. The euro was unchanged against the greenback, at $1.2581. 



License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   COdupnt : E. I. DuPont de Nemours & Company | gnmoc : General Motors Company   INi25 : Chemicals | i351 : Motor Vehicles | i35101 : Passenger Cars | iaut : Automobiles   NSm11 : Equity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | e1202 : Interest Rates | gvtre : Treasury Department | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m131 : Money Markets | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | mntdbt : National Government Debt/Bond Markets | nsum : News Digest | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | gvexe : Executive Branch | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | niwe : IWE Filter   REeurz : Europe | jap : Japan | usa : United States | asiaz : Asia | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America   IPCPIC | TRE | USG | STT | JPY | NND | TPX | USD | MIM | PMK | TFR | TPT   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument J000000020060628e26s0003o  


 CLMCredit Markets   HDS&P Puts Ford a Bit Deeper Into Junk --- Treasurys Slip Amid Jitters Of Expected Rate Increase; ICAP to Join the FTSE 100   BYBy Serena Ng    WC1,237 words   PD29 June 2006   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGC5   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 2006, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LPStandard &Poor's yesterday cut Ford Motor Co.'s credit rating by one notch on a weakening business outlook, pushing the auto maker deeper into "junk" territory.

The downgrade, to single-B-plus from double-B-minus, reflected the ratings service's view "that 2006 would be a more difficult year for Ford than previously anticipated," and followed a two-notch cut in January.
   TDThe downgrade is the latest reminder of the different roads that Ford and its rival, General Motors Corp., seem to be traveling in their turnaround plans. While Ford was downgraded, GM announced earlier this week that it is meeting job-cut targets earlier than expected, and bond investors believe that its plans to sell its financing unit, General Motors Acceptance Corp., are likely to proceed, which will provide a larger cash cushion for GM.

"GM is arguably ahead at this point" in terms of turning its business around, S&P credit analyst Bob Schulz said in a conference call with investors. S&P's rating on Ford is one notch above GM's single-B mark.

The cost of default protection on GM bonds has come down sharply since January, while similar protection on bonds issued by Ford has become more expensive. Investors can buy this protection to hedge against the risk of a company defaulting, or to make a bet on how they see the company faring.

Investors must pay about $965,000 annually for a credit-default swap that insures them against default on $10 million of debt issued by either company, according to J.P. Morgan Chase &Co. In March, such protection cost $1.3 million for GM debt and $925,000 for Ford. In other words, investors see GM's debt as being less risky than before, while the market's view of Ford is that the risk of default has risen.

Long-term bonds of both GM and Ford yield about the same amount, close to 11%. The yield on GM's bonds has come down from about 12.5% in January, while yields on Ford's bonds have gone nowhere. Investors tend to demand a higher yield for companies that they think are a greater risk, and the yield can fall when they think a company's fortunes are improving.

In trading yesterday, Ford's 7.45% bonds due in 2031 were flat at 70.5 cents on the dollar, while GM's 8.375% bonds due in 2033 rose one cent to 76 cents on the dollar, according to data from MarketAxess.

"In the last few months there have been some marginally positive signs at GM, and, for Ford, possibly some deterioration," said Kevin Akioka, a bond portfolio manager at Payden &Rygel in Los Angeles. The stocks of both companies reflect these changing outlooks. Since the start of this year, Ford's shares have fallen 15%, while GM's shares have gained 33%.

In an interview earlier this week, Mr. Schulz said while the ratings service has a negative outlook on Ford and GM, "we don't see a near-term risk of bankruptcy at either company."

Both companies are flush with cash. At the end of March, Ford's automotive operations had about $23.7 billion cash, much more than the $17.8 billion in debt it was obligated to repay. GM had $21.6 billion in cash and $32.2 billion in debt, but is expected to reap $10 billion more cash later this year from its sale of a majority stake in GMAC.

S&P's downgrade affected the ratings of Ford Motor Credit Co., which were lowered to single-B-plus, a move that would raise the finance unit's borrowing costs.

Treasury Prices Slip

Treasury bond prices fell yesterday, as investors reduced their exposure to government bonds ahead of a widely anticipated rate increase today by the Federal Reserve, its 17th successive such move.

The selling left yields on the two-, three-, 10- and 30-year notes close to or above the 5.25% level the Fed is expected to lift its target funds rate at the end of its two-day meeting.

Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke has suggested the central bank could pause in the tightening cycle at some point, but a recent uptick in core inflation and still-robust expansion have convinced the market that at least one more Fed tightening is in the offing. That has pressured Treasury prices for the past two weeks.

Much of yesterday's Treasurys selling was technical in nature, with primary dealers -- banks that deal directly with the Fed -- reducing their holdings of Treasurys ahead of the government's sale of $14 billion in five-year notes. The indirect bid for the five-year note was indeed weak, with just 18.3% of demand coming from domestic and foreign institutional buyers and central banks. That is the lowest so-called indirect bid for five-year notes in three years. As a result, dealers ended holding 80% of the $14 billion sold.

At 4 p.m., the benchmark 10-year note was down 10/32 point, or $3.125 per $1,000 face value, at 99 2/32. Its yield rose to 5.249% from 5.208% Wednesday, as yields move inversely to prices. The 30-year bond was down 21/32 point at 88 10/32 to yield 5.285%. 


 
                           AUCTION RESULTS 
 
  Here are the results of the Treasury auction of five-year notes. All bids 
are awarded at a single price at the market-clearing yield. Rates are 
determined by the difference between that price and the face value. 
 
Applications ...................................    $28,690,225,000 
Accepted bids ..................................    $14,000,009,000 
Bids at market-clearing yield accepted .........             8.96% 
Accepted noncompetitively ......................       $201,125,000 
" foreign noncompetitively .....................                 $0 
Auction price (Rate) ........................... 99.660453 (5.203%) 
Interest rate ..................................             5.125% 
Cusip Number ...................................          912828FK1 
 
  The notes are dated June 30, 2006, and mature June 30, 2011. 
   

ICAP to Join FTSE 100

The boom in global fixed-income and derivatives trading during the past decade has produced many winners, none more so than interdealer brokerage ICAP PLC, which tomorrow will join the blue-chip stratosphere of the FTSE 100, London's leading exchange. Interdealer brokers help banks buy and sell various securities and transact derivatives.

For ICAP, it is a world away from its 1986 birth as a boutique broker, with four brokers, specializing in the then-nascent realm of interest-rate derivatives. Accounting for nearly 30% of the global-flow transactions by interdealer brokers, ICAP averages more than $1 trillion in daily volume via its voice and electronic services.

Two Top Trade Groups to Merge

The boards of directors of the Securities Industry Association and the Bond Market Association voted yesterday to merge the two organizations to create the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association, or SIFMA.

Wall Street's biggest trade groups are in effect looking to return to their roots as a single organization; they separated in 1976 with the formation of the Bond Market Association, then known as the Public Securities Association. The merger is subject to a vote of approval by member firms, expected by the end of July. 

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   COfrdmo : Ford Motor Company   INi35101 : Passenger Cars | i98205 : Professional/Labor/Political Bodies | iinv : Investing/Securities | i351 : Motor Vehicles | iaut : Automobiles | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services   NSm12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mntdbt : National Government Debt/Bond Markets | c1521 : Analyst Comment/Recommendation | c172 : Corporate Debt Instruments | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e1202 : Interest Rates | gvtre : Treasury Department | m131 : Money Markets | c15 : Performance | c152 : Earnings Projections | c17 : Funding/Capital | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | gvexe : Executive Branch | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter   REeurz : Europe | uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | usmi : Michigan | eecz : European Union Countries | namz : North America | usc : Midwest U.S. | weurz : Western Europe   IPCCMR | DJCB | EWR | TRE | USG | FCL | NCY | NND | TPX | CRD | MIM | TPT   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument J000000020060629e26t0003b  



 CLMAhead of the Tape   HDAhead of the Tape   BYBy Justin Lahart    WC401 words   PD29 June 2006   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGC1   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 2006, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LP[Today's Market Forecast]

Oddsmakers
   TDWith Federal Reserve policymakers looking set to raise their target interest rate by another quarter point today, it is time to start discussing the "R" word.

The economy has a good head of steam going, so a recession seems unlikely now. But each time the Fed raises its overnight target rate, making credit less accessible, the odds of a recession go a bit higher -- reason enough to start considering scenarios.

Some observers have been on recession watch since late last year, when the yield on the 10-year Treasury note first slipped below the yield on the two-year Treasury. Because investors usually demand higher returns to tie up money in longer-term instruments, such yield inversions are rare. When they have occurred, economists have taken it as a signal the economy could cool, forcing the Fed to cut short-term rates.

In a March speech, Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke played down such talk. The speech referenced research by Fed economists Jonathan Wright and Don H. Kim, who have developed a handy little tool to predict recessions, using 10-year yields, three-month yields and the fed-funds rate. At the time Mr. Bernanke spoke, it put the odds of a recession in the next 12 months at 27%.

The odds remained at 27% yesterday, but if the fed-funds rate is increased to 5.25%, as the Fed is expected to do today, the odds rise to 30%. If the Fed raises its target rate again in August, the possibility of a recession should go higher still.

Other economists are nudging up their recession odds. In a survey of 56 economists to be released by The Wall Street Journal next week, the consensus puts the odds of a downturn in the next 12 months at 20%. Not too high, but up from 15% when they were asked the same question in May.

With the odds creeping higher, James Hamilton, an economist at the University of California, San Diego, says it would make sense for the Fed to hold off on rate increases in August.

Don't count on it. The futures markets now put the odds of an August rate increase at more than 80%.

---

Please send comments and questions to justin.lahart@wsj.com. 



License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | ecat : Economic News | gvexe : Executive Branch | m11 : Equity Markets | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCPIC | FED | USG | NND | AOT | TFR   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument J000000020060629e26t00034  


 CLMWednesday's Markets   HDExpected Fed Boost Gives Markets Pause --- A Quarter-Point Rate Increase Is Considered Nearly Certain; Corporate Earnings Gain Seen   BYBy Peter A. McKay    WC714 words   PD29 June 2006   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGC1   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 2006, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LPSTOCK INVESTORS did some buying and a lot of anxious waiting as Federal Reserve policymakers convened for a two-day meeting.

Yesterday's pace contrasted with the activity seen Monday and Tuesday, when the nearness of the central bank's next gathering loomed large but investors nevertheless were spurred to trading by a wave of corporate mergers.
   TDBarring news of another takeover or other seismic corporate event, investors today will focus on whether the Fed does raise its target for short-term interest rates and, if so, the words it chooses to convey that decision. The Fed's policy statement is due at 2:15 p.m. EDT. Longer-term factors on strategists' minds include second-quarter earnings season, soon to kick off, and the direction of energy prices as the summer heats up.

The Dow Jones Industrial Average gained 48.82 points, or 0.5%, to close at 10973.56, up 2.4% on the year. The Standard &Poor's 500-stock index rose 6.80 points, or 0.6%, to 1246.00, off 0.2% on the year. And the Nasdaq Composite Index rose 11.59 points, or 0.6%, to 2111.84, off 4.2% on the year.

To be sure, there is little suspense about where the Fed will set its key interest rate today. Most economists say a quarter-point increase to 5.25% is nearly certain. Trading in a key futures contract that reflects the odds of changes in monetary policy has been indicating the same result.

But in the wording of the Fed's accompanying commentary -- a somewhat oblique document, even by the standards of Wall Street wonks -- market participants will look for hints of more rate moves to come. Yesterday, futures markets were pricing in an 84% likelihood that Fed policymakers will nudge up rates again when they meet next in August.

Sam Stovall, chief investment strategist at S&P Equity Research, expects most companies to show solid improvement in their second-quarter earnings. He forecasts that S&P 500's component companies will register net income growth of about 10%.

And while oil prices remain high, Mr. Stovall expects them to hold around the current level rather than rise again, a somewhat supportive factor for stocks. That scenario could easily be disrupted at some point by a hurricane or some other supply disruption. "It's definitely an area investors are still worried about, even though it's been a lower priority the last few days," Mr. Stovall said.

But even if companies are expanding their bottom lines and oil stays below $70 a barrel, there's reason to worry whether individual investors will continue to push stocks higher.

Bear Stearns economist John Ryding said home-sales data released this week suggest property prices have peaked. Home-price appreciation has been a source of spending for many Americans, including for stock investments. A cap on real-estate values coupled with a still-hawkish Fed would weigh heavily on the market, economists agree.

However, the market is probably due for a near-term "relief rally," said Larry Adam, chief U.S. strategist at Deutsche Bank Alex. Brown, a portfolio-management unit of Deutsche Bank AG. Such bullish swings often follow the conclusion of a much-anticipated news event such as a Fed rate decision.

Outside the U.S., the Dow Jones World Stock Index, excluding U.S. shares, fell 0.11%, or 0.25 points, to 237.22.

In major U.S. market action:

Stocks rose. Total trading volume for stocks listed on the New York Stock Exchange was 2.16 billion shares, as 2,013 stocks rose and 1,284 fell.

Bond prices fell. The 10-year Treasury note shed 10/32, or $3.125 for each $1,000 invested, pushing the yield up to 5.249%. The 30-year Treasury fell 21/32 to yield 5.285%.

The dollar strengthened. Late in New York, it traded at 116.47 yen, up from 116.28 yen. The euro fell against the greenback, to $1.2553, compared to $1.2581. 

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   NSm11 : Equity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | e1202 : Interest Rates | gvtre : Treasury Department | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m131 : Money Markets | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | mntdbt : National Government Debt/Bond Markets | nsum : News Digest | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | gvexe : Executive Branch | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | niwe : IWE Filter   REeurz : Europe | jap : Japan | usa : United States | asiaz : Asia | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America   IPCTRE | USG | STT | JPY | NND | TPX | USD | MIM | PMK | TFR | TPT   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument J000000020060629e26t0003e  



 CLMFund Track   HDIn Quarter, Sunshine Turned to Clouds   BYBy Tom Lauricella    WC781 words   PD30 June 2006   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGC12   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 2006, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LPFor mutual-fund investors, the second quarter was a boom-to-bust story.

It began with the markets extending the first-quarter rally, chugging along on the expectation that the economic outlook was clear. But everything changed on the afternoon of May 10. That day, Federal Reserve officials made it clear that they would raise interest rates more than the markets expected and that inflation had become an increasing concern.
   TDWithin 24 hours, both the stock and bond markets were off the tracks. The result: The average U.S. diversified stock fund fell 6% between March and the end of trading on Wednesday, reversing the first quarter's gains. The average taxable bond fund shed 1%, according to preliminary data from Lipper Inc.

"There was really no place to hide for the next seven weeks," says Ernie Ankrim, chief investment strategist at Russell Investment Group.

Money managers are holding onto some optimism, arguing that they have yet to see evidence of a significant slowdown in the economy, runaway inflation or collapse in corporate profits that could lead to additional big declines in stocks. In fact, stock prices rose sharply yesterday even though the Fed raised rates again. The rally came on hopes that a moderating economy will allow the central bank to finally pause after increasing rates at 17 straight meetings.

The term that is being used around Wall Street to explain the downturn is "repricing of risk." Investors have decided that, given the uncertainty in the economy, they want "a better cushion," says Jerry Webman, chief economist at OppenheimerFunds.

Hardest hit over the past three months were corners of the markets that provided investors the biggest gains over the past several years. Emerging-markets funds, which began drawing investors late last year after a long drought, fell 9.6% in the second quarter. For investors who got into stocks like these three years ago, at the beginning of the huge rally in developing markets, the gains are still handsome. The average emerging-markets fund is up an average 30.7% a year over that time span.

Stock markets in developed countries overseas also took hits in the second quarter, and, as a result, diversified funds focusing on international stocks lost anywhere from 4.4% to 7.4%, according to Lipper. But they, too, remain up strongly over the past several years.

The market's reversal stings particularly hard for shareholders of funds investing in the stocks of larger, faster-growing stocks. The average large-cap growth fund has lost 7.5% since March 31. And while small-cap growth funds were hit harder this quarter with an 11.3% loss, it's a different story for the longer-term results. Over the past three and five years, large-cap growth has been the worst performing category among broadly diversified stock funds. And so far in 2006 that continues to be the case: The large-cap growth category is down 4.9%, according to Lipper.

Fund managers are finding a silver lining for large-company stocks -- and growth stocks in particular -- in the market's current woes. The argument is that while larger-company stocks have been posting respectable low double-digit earnings gains in recent years, the market has instead been rewarding midsize and smaller companies posting 20%-plus earnings growth.

But now, if the economy cools down a bit without sliding into recession, large companies should still be able to maintain healthier earnings growth and will look more attractive, they say.

Penelope Dobkin, manager of Fidelity Investments' Fidelity Advisor Diversified International Fund, sees similar underpinnings for overseas stock markets. Despite several years of gains, overseas stock-market valuations aren't stretched compared with the U.S. markets and she expects improvements in productivity to boost earnings growth. She also cites corporate restructuring, especially in Germany, as helping the outlook.

In emerging markets, the recent downdraft appears under control compared with previous big downturns, which often spiraled out of control. As evidence, she points to stability in most emerging-market countries' currencies.

"We've thrown the baby out with the bathwater," says Ms. Dobkin. "Sooner or later the market is going to have to go out and find those babies."

With interest-rate increases driving the markets, many bond investors didn't avoid losses either. The average fund in Lipper's general bond-fund category lost 1.1% in the second quarter and is down 2.2% for the year. Short-term bond funds, which are less sensitive to increases interest rates fared slightly better, losing an average of 0.3%. 



License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   INi8150211 : Unit Trusts/Mutual Funds | iinv : Investing/Securities | i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | m11 : Equity Markets | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m16 : Fund Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | nedc : Commentary/Opinion | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCPIC | FCL | NND | MFU | MIM   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument J000000020060630e26u0003g  


 CLMThursday's Markets   HDFed's Calm Words About Inflation Send Stocks Up   BYBy Peter A. McKay    WC584 words   PD30 June 2006   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGC1   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 2006, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LPSTOCKS SHOT HIGHER after investors were pleasantly surprised by the language in the statement that accompanied the Federal Reserve's unsurprising decision to raise interest rates again.

The Dow Jones Industrial Average climbed 217.24 points, or 2%, to 11190.80, up 4.4% on the year. About 80 points of that gain came before central-bank policy makers ended their meeting at 2:15 p.m. Eastern time, when the Fed announced its 17th straight increase in its key interest-rate target. The federal-funds rate was notched up another quarter point to 5.25%.
   TDBut it was the Fed's words, not its numbers, that were most watched by traders. Unlike its last statement in May, when policy makers pointed to the likelihood of more rate increases to tame inflation, the Fed yesterday suggested that "the moderation in the growth of aggregate demand should help to limit inflation pressures over time."

The policy statement added a typically cautious codicil, however, noting that price pressures remain.

Wall Street parsed that prose to mean that the Fed could finally end its rate-increase streak at the policy makers' next meeting, in August. Many traders are now espousing a worst-case scenario of one more quarter-point increase this year, an eventuality that bulls figure would leave companies and their customers in relatively good shape.

Jon Najarian, chief market strategist at PTI Securities, a Chicago brokerage, said professional traders and investors were pleased by the Fed's statement, as most "did not anticipate the possibility of a [rate-increase] pause being anywhere in the wordplay."

All 30 of the Dow's components finished higher, with Alcoa and McDonald's each rising more than 4%. The hamburger chain's stock also benefited from an upgrade by Merrill Lynch analysts, who lifted McDonald's to a "buy" based on expectations for improved sales and margins, especially in Europe.

Other stock indicators also rose strongly. The Standard &Poor's 500-stock index gained 2.2%, or 26.87 points, to 1272.87, up 2% on the year. The Nasdaq Composite Index rallied 3%, or 62.54 points, to 2174.38, off 1.4% on the year.

Ethan Harris, chief U.S. economist at Lehman Brothers in New York, said the gains followed the classic pattern of a "relief rally," in which stocks jump in the wake of a widely anticipated event.

But Mr. Harris offered a skeptic's view on whether the economy and market will play out as bulls plan. His firm still forecasts two more quarter-point rate increases from the central bank this year.

Outside the U.S., the Dow Jones World Stock Index, excluding U.S. shares, rose 1.81%, or 3.67 points, to 206.25.

In major U.S. market action:

Stocks rose. Total trading volume for stocks listed on the New York Stock Exchange was 2.7 billion shares, as 2,801 stocks rose and 509 fell.

Bond prices rose. The 10-year Treasury note gained 11/32, or $3.44 for each $1,000 invested, pushing the yield up to 5.206%. The 30-year Treasury rose 14/32 to yield 5.254%.

The dollar weakened. Late in New York, it traded at 115.07 yen, down from 116.47 yen. The euro rose against the dollar, to $1.2647, compared with to $1.2553. 



License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   NSm11 : Equity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | e1202 : Interest Rates | gvtre : Treasury Department | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m131 : Money Markets | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | mntdbt : National Government Debt/Bond Markets | nsum : News Digest | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | gvexe : Executive Branch | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | niwe : IWE Filter   REeurz : Europe | jap : Japan | usa : United States | asiaz : Asia | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America   IPCPIC | TRE | USG | STT | JPY | NND | TPX | USD | MIM | PMK | TFR | TPT   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument J000000020060630e26u0003j  


 HDFACTBOX-U.S. Fed policymakers' recent comments     WC1,047 words   PD29 June 2006   ET20:40   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006 Reuters Limited  
   LPNEW YORK, June 29 (Reuters) - The Federal Reserve raised the benchmark federal funds rate to 5.25 percent from 5.00 percent on Thursday, the central bank's 17th consecutive interest rate hike since it began tightening monetary policy in June 2004.  

The statement was balanced and acknowledged both easing growth and inflation pressures. The following is a summary of recent comments by Federal Reserve policy-makers:  
   TD* Denotes voting member of the FOMC in 2006. -----------------------------------------------------------  

* FED OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE POST MEETING STATEMENT, JUNE 29  

"Recent indicators suggest that economic growth is moderating from its quite strong pace earlier this year, partly reflecting a gradual cooling of the housing market and the lagged effects of increases in interest rates and energy prices.  

"Readings on core inflation have been elevated in recent months. Ongoing productivity gains have held down the rise in unit labor costs, and inflation expectations remain contained. However, the high levels of resource utilization and the prices of energy and other commodities have the potential to sustain inflation pressures.  

"Although the moderation in the growth of aggregate demand should help to limit inflation pressures over time, the Committee judges that some inflation risks remain. The extent and timing of any additional firming that may be needed to address these risks will depend on the evolution of the outlook for both inflation and economic growth as implied by incoming information. In any event, the Committee will respond to changes in economic prospects as needed to support the attainment of its objectives.  

*ATLANTA FEDERAL RESERVE PRESIDENT JACK GUYNN, JUNE 19  

"My one big wish ... is that as a nation, we as business leaders and bankers and as elected officials, would stop and recognize the dilemma we've got with the federal deficit. We're on an unsustainable path."  

*FEDERAL RESERVE CHAIRMAN BEN BERNANKE, JUNE 15:  

"Although the rate of pass-through of higher energy and other commodity prices to core consumer price inflation appears to have remained relatively low in the current episode -- reflecting the inflation-fighting credibility built by the Fed in recent decades -- the cumulative increases in the energy and commodity prices have been large enough that they could account for some of the recent pickup in core inflation."  

"The significantly higher relative price of energy that we are now experiencing is expected to be relatively long-lasting and thus will likely prompt more significant adjustments by households and businesses over time."  

"In the long run, higher energy prices are likely to reduce somewhat the productive capacity of the U.S. economy. Under the assumption that energy prices do not move sharply higher from their already high levels, these long-run effects, though clearly negative, appear to be manageable."  

*FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD GOVERNOR RANDALL KROSZNER, JUNE 15:  

"If you look at the broader mosaic (of inflation levels), a number of these measure have been moving up to levels that I am less comfortable with."  

"We have a dual mandate of getting inflation to a low and stable level that is compatible with maximum employment growth. But of course, achieving price level stability and maintaining confidence in price level stability going forward is very important. The benefit of containing inflation expectations ... and having price level stability is very good economic growth."  

BOSTON FEDERAL RESERVE PRESIDENT CATHY MINEHAN, JUNE 15:  

"There has been a tendency to credit monetary policy and productivity gains for the big declines in global inflation achieved since the mid-1980s. Now, however, many analysts have started to give weight to the competitive forces engendered by globalization ... I think there's some accuracy in that."  

*CLEVELAND FED PRESIDENT SANDRA PIANALTO, JUNE 12:  

"The core CPI has increased at an annualized rate of more than 3 percent during the past three months. This inflation picture, if sustained, exceeds my comfort level."  

"There is ... a time lag between monetary policy actions and their ultimate effect on inflation. That is, even though the recently reported inflation numbers have been edging upward, I think that the current 5 percent level of the federal funds rate is near a point that is consistent with a gradual improvement in the inflation outlook."  

*FEDERAL RESERVE GOVERNOR SUSAN BIES, JUNE 12:  

"If you asked me today, 'Sue, where are you going to stop?' I couldn't tell you, because we're in the range that we need to be, I think."  

"We're at the point now in the cycle where we're seeing the economy changing."  

"We are very, very data dependent right now. We want to know how new information comes and changes our forecasts of where we are going to be in the next 12 months plus."  

*FEDERAL RESERVE CHAIRMAN BEN BERNANKE, JUNE 9:  

"This productivity revival augurs well for the future of the U.S. economy."  

"Research also suggests that the current productivity revival still has some legs, as the full economic benefits of recent technological changes have not yet been completely realized."  

DIRECTOR OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE'S DIVISION OF MONETARY AFFAIRS VINCENT REINHART, JUNE 9:  

"As long as inflation expectations remain contained, relatively faster growth in prices of imported goods for a time would be associated with a temporary bulge in overall inflation, but would leave no significant imprint on core inflation."  

*FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD GOVERNOR DONALD KOHN, JUNE 8:  

"Price stability is important and I have found the recent inflation data somewhat troubling".  

"They are backward looking ... but they were higher than I had anticipated and that raises a warning flag".  

"At this stage, we have to acknowledge that ... yes, the economy is slowing down and that will help to dampen inflation pressures, but at the same time, there are some danger signs out there that we need to be quite attentive to".  

*ATLANTA FEDERAL RESERVE PRESIDENT JACK GUYNN, JUNE 7:  

"I am not personally, in terms of my own views, going to take a risk that some of this (rise in prices) is transitory and will go away in short order. It is so much harder to get the genie back in the bottle if (we) let inflation get away from us".  

(To access stories on Fed policy click on [FED/AHEAD])  
   RFECONOMY-FED-COMMENTS (FACTBOX)|LANGEN|ABN|M|D|E|RBN|U|RNP|DNP   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | e1202 : Interest Rates | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mcpdbt : Corporate Debt/Bond Markets | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCFED | DBT | INT | MCE | CEN | STIR | PLCY | FED/QUOTES   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument LBA0000020060629e26t001v2  



 HDUS Chamber of Commerce: Fed Seen Hiking Funds Rate To 5.5%     WC497 words   PD28 June 2006   ET18:54   SNMarket News International   SCMARNEW   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006. Market News International, Inc.  
   TD
--Expects Rate Reversal Of Monetary Policy By 2007

By Margaret Chadbourn

     WASHINGTON (MNI) - The Federal Reserve is expected to hike its key 
interest rate to 5.5% by the end of the year, according to the U.S. 
Chamber of Commerce's Economic Outlook released Wednesday. 

     "The Fed will have to be more vigilant in regards to its monetary 
policy. This suggests the Fed will raise rates this week, and another 
time as well," Martin Regalia, chief economist at the U.S. Chamber 
of Commerce, told reporters during a press conference. 

     Fed fund rates will continue to rise because of the acceleration in 
the core rates of inflation, but it is possible the economy will slow 
and the Fed will adjust the rates by a quarter-point reduction in early 
2007, Regalia said. 

     "We will clearly get to a point in time when the Fed will think 
more stimulus is necessary," he said. "It's clear the U.S. economy is 
downshifting, the question is, is it coming to a screeching halt or will 
it be a soft landing?," Regalia added. 

     Regalia said freshman Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke has 
triggered uncertainty in the markets by his off-the-cuff statements to 
the press, which are inconsistent and nontransparent. 
 
     "Bernanke has repeatedly spooked the markets. While he is big on 
transparency, Bernanke's remarks are not enhancing the transparency of 
the Fed. People are more uncertain about where the Fed is going when 
they hear his comments because they don't appear to be consistent," 
Regalia said. 

     Despite GDP gyrations in the fourth and first quarters, the Chamber 
of Commerce expects rates will settle in around a 2.5% to 3% pace this 
year. The main factors slowing down GDP are energy prices and the 
Federal Reserve Board's monetary policy decisions. 

     The U.S. economy is also affected by the expanding trade deficit, a 
continuing problem which places downward pressure on the dollar, 
according to Regalia. 

     "We're looking for the trade deficit to bottom out and only make 
modest improvement over the course of the year. If we're going to 
address fundamentally the U.S. deficit, it will have to be done through 
more than exchange rates," he said. 

     If China does not give up a fixed exchange rate for the yuan, 
Regalia expects the U.S. to take a more aggressive step and will not 
hesitate to name the county a currency manipulator. 

     "This kind of manipulation is untenable in the long wrong. It's 
becoming more problematic and it's not good for the U.S. to be that 
indebted to foreign investors," he said.

     Job growth is also a factor contributing to a lag in the economy, 
Regalia said, and expects the unemployment rate to grow to 5% by the end 
of the year. 

  ** Market News International Washington Bureau: 202-371-2121 **

[TOPICS: MAUDS$,M$U$$$,MMUFE$,MGU$$$,MFU$$$]  
   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBMarket News International, Inc.   ANDocument MARNEW0020060628e26s0008j  



 HDRepeat:US Chamber of Commerce:Fed Hiking Funds Rate To 5.5%     WC498 words   PD29 June 2006   ET07:34   SNMarket News International   SCMARNEW   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006. Market News International, Inc.  
   TD
--Retransmitting Story Initially sent 12:54 ET Wednesday
--Expects Rate Reversal Of Monetary Policy By 2007

By Margaret Chadbourn

     WASHINGTON (MNI) - The Federal Reserve is expected to hike its key 
interest rate to 5.5% by the end of the year, according to the U.S. 
Chamber of Commerce's Economic Outlook released Wednesday. 

     "The Fed will have to be more vigilant in regards to its monetary 
policy. This suggests the Fed will raise rates this week, and another 
time as well," Martin Regalia, chief economist at the U.S. Chamber 
of Commerce, told reporters during a press conference. 

     Fed fund rates will continue to rise because of the acceleration in 
the core rates of inflation, but it is possible the economy will slow 
and the Fed will adjust the rates by a quarter-point reduction in early 
2007, Regalia said. 

     "We will clearly get to a point in time when the Fed will think 
more stimulus is necessary," he said. "It's clear the U.S. economy is 
downshifting, the question is, is it coming to a screeching halt or will 
it be a soft landing?," Regalia added. 

     Regalia said freshman Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke has 
triggered uncertainty in the markets by his off-the-cuff statements to 
the press, which are inconsistent and nontransparent. 
 
     "Bernanke has repeatedly spooked the markets. While he is big on 
transparency, Bernanke's remarks are not enhancing the transparency of 
the Fed. People are more uncertain about where the Fed is going when 
they hear his comments because they don't appear to be consistent," 
Regalia said. 

     Despite GDP gyrations in the fourth and first quarters, the Chamber 
of Commerce expects rates will settle in around a 2.5% to 3% pace this 
year. The main factors slowing down GDP are energy prices and the 
Federal Reserve Board's monetary policy decisions. 

     The U.S. economy is also affected by the expanding trade deficit, a 
continuing problem which places downward pressure on the dollar, 
according to Regalia. 

     "We're looking for the trade deficit to bottom out and only make 
modest improvement over the course of the year. If we're going to 
address fundamentally the U.S. deficit, it will have to be done through 
more than exchange rates," he said. 

     If China does not give up a fixed exchange rate for the yuan, 
Regalia expects the U.S. to take a more aggressive step and will not 
hesitate to name the county a currency manipulator. 

     "This kind of manipulation is untenable in the long wrong. It's 
becoming more problematic and it's not good for the U.S. to be that 
indebted to foreign investors," he said.

     Job growth is also a factor contributing to a lag in the economy, 
Regalia said, and expects the unemployment rate to grow to 5% by the end 
of the year. 

  ** Market News International Washington Bureau: 202-371-2121 **  
   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBMarket News International, Inc.   ANDocument MARNEW0020060629e26t00045  



 SELEADER   HDA well-timed warning But BIS call for changes to  interest rate  setting needs care.   WC489 words   PD28 June 2006   SNFinancial Times   SCFTFT   EDLondon Ed1   PGPage 20   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPThe central bankers' bank does not talk lightly about inflationary pressures. So when the Bank for International Settlements publicly cautions that central banks may need to raise interest rates more quickly, to head off inflation, it must be taken seriously.

The BIS has been brave in opening up this subject in its annual report, and should be applauded for doing so. It has made a timely call for banks to continue tightening monetary policy - as the US Federal Reserve is expected to do tomorrow with a further 0.25 percentage point rise.
   TDThe BIS has also set out a challenge to conventional wisdom, in suggesting that central banks should adjust their thinking about how they set interest rates. Sometimes, it says, it may be better to raise interest rates even if inflation falls below desired levels, provided this avoids deeper undershooting of the inflation target later on.

It is easy to agree that there is more to good economic policy than hitting an inflation target precisely. It is harder to argue that monetary policy should attempt to address other objectives. Strictly speaking, any one instrument can only hit one target.

Moreover, even if one accepts that the recent extended period of low interest rates fuelled a surge in global asset prices and current account imbalances, one should not conclude that central bankers ought to have behaved in a radically different fashion.

First, the long period of stability in inflation and growing output that large parts of the world have enjoyed suggests that central bankers were not disastrously mistaken. A global recession - which was a distinct possibility - would have been a much clearer signal that they had set interest rates at the wrong levels. Second, attempting to target asset prices is extremely hard, for the simple reason that nobody can be sure what the right level is at any particular moment.

This example of the limits of our economic knowledge is one reason for reservations about adopting the more flexible framework the BIS recommends. Central banks should indeed have a lengthy time horizon in making decisions. They should also, as Alan Greenspan, the former chairman of the Federal Reserve, used to argue, adopt a "risk management" approach. But they must not endanger control over inflation. Not only might they make serious mistakes if they did so, but they would risk confusing markets, as well.

That said, there is some scope for them to lean against the wind. If asset prices are soaring to extraordinary heights, but inflation remains under control, it may make sense for central banks to operate a tighter monetary policy than in normal circumstances.

Politicians have handed monetary policy to central bankers, rather than computers. They must, in turn, exercise judgment about the risks ahead. If this leads to modest deviations of inflation from the objective, so be it. 
   RF20060628L120.036   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | bis : Bank for International Settlements | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1101 : Economic Growth | e1103 : Inflation/Prices | ecat : Economic News | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTFT000020060628e26s0002m  



 SESTOCK MARKETS AND CURRENCIES   HDEmerging markets have mixed day CURRENCIES.   BYBy DARRYL THOMSON    WC680 words   PD29 June 2006   SNFinancial Times   SCFTFT   EDLondon Ed1   PGPage 40   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPEmerging market currencies were in the spotlight yesterday as leading currencies were range-bound ahead of the US Federal Reserve's decision on interest rates today.

Currencies that have been punished of late for their country's large current account deficits moved in divergent directions.
   TDThe Turkish lira rose 1.2 per cent to TL1.6160 against the dollar and 1.2 per cent against the euro to TL2.2050 after the country's central bank raised its overnight lending rate by another 200 basis points to 22.25 per cent.

The central bank has withdrawn TL5.2bn (Dollars 3.2bn) from the market over the past 15 days in an attempt to support the currency and ease inflation.

"The lira has been a more effective monetary policy tool for controlling inflation than interest rates," Carlin Doyle of State Street said.

The lira is still 18 per cent weaker than in April.

The South African rand gained 1.1 per cent to R7.187 against the dollar.

It was buoyed up by an acceleration in the targeted CPIX inflation measure to 4.1 per cent from 3.7 per cent, which supported the case for higher interest rates.

The inflation rise also added justification to the central bank's move on June 8, when rates were pushed 50 basis points higher to 7.5 per cent, which at the time had been considered pre-emptive.

Moving in the other direction was the New Zealand dollar. The kiwi hit a two-year low of Dollars 0.5933 against the dollar, down more than2 per cent, after the country announced a trade deficit in May, the first time for three months.

Also suffering were the Hungarian forint, down0.9 per cent to Ft223.50 and the Icelandic krona, 0.4 per cent lower at IKr76.18.

The US dollar rose slightly yesterday ahead of today's Federal Reserve's decision on interest rates. A quarter-point increase to 5.25 per cent is widely expected but the market is awaiting any indication from the central bank on the rate outlook.

Concerns that inflationary pressures are mounting in the global economy has led to interest rate rises in many countries this year as central banks begin a co-ordinated drive to tighten monetary policy.

However, this has in turn increased fears that an over-reaction by central banks could damage global growth.

"The markets are on a knife edge," Ryan Shea of State Street said, adding that they wanted a clear sense of the Fed's thinking.

"They are still assessing how sensitive (Fed chairman) Ben Bernanke is going to be to inflation, and where its trade-off lies versus growth."

Adam Cole at RBC Capital Markets forecast the Fed would pause after this increase to assess the impact of tightening on growth.

He expects one further quarter-point move in the fourth quarter.

But Derek Halpenny of the Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ saw little scope for the Fed to signal the possibility of a forthcoming pause today. "With no convincing sign of an economic slowdown, the Fed is likely to assume that core inflation will continue to exceed its desired level," he said.

The dollar rose 0.5 per cent to Dollars 1.2533 against the euro, 0.1 per cent versus the yen to Y116.26 and 0.4 per cent against the pound to Dollars 1.8171.

The euro eased 0.4 per cent against the yen to Y145.7, having hit an all time high of Y146.65 on Tuesday. The single currency fell 0.1 per cent versus the pound to Pounds 0.6897.

The weakness came in spite of three European Central Bank governing council members adding to the hawkish rhetoric coming from the central bank. UBS estimates markets are now pricing in three quarter-point ECB rate increases by October.

"The euro/yen is viewed as nearing its top, completing the advance from June 2005," strategists at BNP Paribas said. 
   RF20060629L140.088   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | e52 : Euro Zone/Currency | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTFT000020060629e26t0004q  



 HDRepeat:Analysts:FOMC Leaves Leeway to Hike Further or Pause     WC992 words   PD30 June 2006   ET07:34   SNMarket News International   SCMARNEW   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006. Market News International, Inc.  
   TD
--Retransmitting Story Published 15:34 ET Thursday
--Fed Policymakers Looking For Sustained Moderation, Friendlier Core

By Steven K. Beckner

     WASHINGTON (MNI) - After raising the federal funds rate yet again, 
Federal Reserve policymakers did not prejudge the need to raise rates 
further, but made clear it is quite prepared to do so depending on 
whether or not economic growth continues to moderate and/or whether core 
inflation remains "elevated." 

     At the same time, while it did not signal it is ready to pause with 
the funds rate at 5.25%, the Fed's rate-setting Federal Open Market 
Committee did not rule out that possibility in a rate announcement 
explaining its action. 

     But neither did it foreclose further increases in the key money 
market rate to 5.5% or even beyond if the data don't prove conducive to 
a pause. 

     For the seventh straight meeting since it began raising the funds 
rate from 1% two years ago, the FOMC raised the rate at which banks 
borrow reserves from each other overnight by 25 basis points. The vote 
was a unanimous 10-0.

     At the request of the boards of directors of 10 Federal Reserve 
Banks, the Fed Board of Governors, acting in concert with the FOMC, 
raised the discount rate by 25 basis points to 6.25%.

     Its carefully worded and nuanced rate announcement suggested that 
the FOMC is not facing easy or automatic policy choices as it continues 
to incrementally ratchet up its benchmark short-term interest rate. And 
its tone implied that the Fed will be proceeding cautiously after 
raising the funds rate 425 basis points in 24 months.

     Even while continuing to put emphasis on upside inflation risks, 
the statement takes note of a moderation of growth which it has long 
expected will help contain inflation. And it linked further rate cuts to 
the evolution of both sets of forces to a signficantly greater degree 
than it had in the past.

     It is not obvious from a reading of the rate announcement that the 
FOMC will definitely be raising the funds rate again at its next meeting 
on Aug. 8, although that option was certainly left open. The rate 
announcement makes a pause more likely, but only if the FOMC sees 
the right combination of economic moderation and less alarming inflation 
readings.

    The rate announcement began with the observation that "recent 
indicators suggest that economic growth is moderating from 
its quite strong pace earlier this year, partly reflecting a gradual 
cooling of the housing market and the lagged effects of increases in 
interest rates and energy prices."

     That represented a fulfillment of the FOMC's May 10 prognosis that, 
while "economic growth has been quite strong so far this year," growth 
was "likely to moderate to a more sustainable pace ... ." Data since the 
May meeting have seemingly validated the Fed's forecast of less rapid 
growth.

     The latest rate announcement then turned to the inflation picture, 
which has worsened since the last meeting. "Readings on core inflation 
have been elevated in recent months," it said.

     "Ongoing productivity gains have held down the rise in unit labor 
costs, and inflation expectations remain contained," the statement 
continued. "However, the high levels of resource utilization and of the 
prices of energy and other commodities have the potential to sustain 
inflation pressures." 

     That represented a mild escalation of the FOMC's rhetoric on 
inflation from that used in the May 10 rate announcement, which stated, 
"As yet, the run-up in the prices of energy and other commodities 
appears to have had only a modest effect on core inflation, ongoing 
productivity gains have helped to hold the growth of unit labor costs in 
check, and inflation expectations remain contained. Still, possible 
increases in resource utilization, in combination with the elevated 
prices of energy and other commodities, have the potential to add to 
inflation pressures." 

     The key policy paragraph in the latest rate announcement is similar 
to that of May 10 in that both leave the FOMC leeway to raise rates 
further. But the new one differs in an important respect: it puts more 
importance on the outlook for the pace of economic growth.

     "Although moderation in the growth of aggregate demand should help 
to limit inflation pressures over time, the Committee judges that some 
inflation risks remain," the policy paragraph begins.

     "The extent and timing of any additional firming that may be needed 
to address these risks will depend on the evolution of the outlook for 
both inflation and economic growth, as implied by incoming information," 
it continues. "In any event the Committee will respond to changes in 
economic prospects as needed to support the attainment of its 
objectives." 

     In the prior statement, the FOMC had said, "The Committee judges 
that some further policy firming may yet be needed to address inflation 
risks but emphasizes that the extent and timing of any such firming will 
depend importantly on the evolution of the economic outlook as implied 
by incoming information. In any event, the Committee will respond to 
changes in economic prospects as needed to support the attainment of its 
objectives."

     The new formulation implies a greater degree of balance in the way 
the FOMC will be weighing inflation and growth.

     Fed policymakers have been hoping for some time that a moderation 
of demand would bring economic growth back into line with its potential 
or "trend" pace -- in the process bringing core inflation back to within 
a more acceptable 1-2% range. 

     Officials have said that when trend growth has actually been 
achieved, the Fed will be able to conclude that monetary policy is 
roughly "neutral."

     There has been doubt, however, as to whether the economy is in fact 
slowing sufficiently and sustainably to counteract inflation pressures. 
This will continue to be the central issue upon which policymakers will 
focus in the weeks and months ahead.

  ** Market News International Washington Bureau: 202-371-2121 **  
   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBMarket News International, Inc.   ANDocument MARNEW0020060630e26u0004o  



 SELEX COLUMN   HDUS interest rates - THE LEX COLUMN.   WC325 words   PD30 June 2006   SNFinancial Times   SCFTFT   EDUSA Ed1   PGPage 16   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPUS interest rates

The Federal Reserve's hand-holding is finally coming to an end. At its latest meeting it delivered yet another, well-flagged quarter-point interest rate rise to take Fed funds to 5.25 per cent. That - coupled with the Fed's concerted campaign to bolster the inflation-fighting credibility of Ben Bernanke - should help increase confidence in the new chairman after a shaky start.
   TDBut, for the first time in over a year, the accompanying statement really did leave the Fed's hands free for its next meeting after 17 consecutive hikes. The Fed toned down its language a notch further from the previous wording of "some further policy firming may yet be needed to address inflation risks".

The next move will depend on the data that emerge on inflation and growth over the next six weeks.

That will not, however, make the decision easy. The big challenge for the Fed will be balancing confidence in its own forecasts against pressure to react to the inherently backward-looking figures on growth and inflation that will be released between now and August 8.

The Fed stated clearly yesterday that - while growth is moderating and that inflation in recent months has been high - it remains confident that slowing economic growthwill mean inflation risks recede.

The Fed has no better crystal ball than the markets. As it nears a turning-point in the interest rate cycle it makes sense to widen its room for manoeuvre as far as possible.

But it could yet be faced with a problem of past data telling a different story than the one it sees evolving into the future. Even if the Fed remains convinced that long-term inflation is under control, another set of uncomfortably high numbers next month would probably see it forced into another hike to avoid a further wobble in its credibility with the markets. 
   RF20060630U116.800   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | nanl : Analysis | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTFT000020060630e26u0005w  



 HDAnalysts: FOMC Leaves Leeway to Hike Further or to Pause     WC991 words   PD29 June 2006   ET21:34   SNMarket News International   SCMARNEW   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006. Market News International, Inc.  
   TD
--Fed Policymakers Looking For Sustained Moderation, Friendlier Core

By Steven K. Beckner

     WASHINGTON (MNI) - After raising the federal funds rate yet again, 
Federal Reserve policymakers did not prejudge the need to raise rates 
further, but made clear it is quite prepared to do so depending on 
whether or not economic growth continues to moderate and/or whether core 
inflation remains "elevated." 

     At the same time, while it did not signal it is ready to pause with 
the funds rate at 5.25%, the Fed's rate-setting Federal Open Market 
Committee did not rule out that possibility in a rate announcement 
explaining its action. 

     But neither did it foreclose further increases in the key money 
market rate to 5.5% or even beyond if the data don't prove conducive to 
a pause. 

     For the seventh straight meeting since it began raising the funds 
rate from 1% two years ago, the FOMC raised the rate at which banks 
borrow reserves from each other overnight by 25 basis points. The vote 
was a unanimous 10-0.

     At the request of the boards of directors of 10 Federal Reserve 
Banks, the Fed Board of Governors, acting in concert with the FOMC, 
raised the discount rate by 25 basis points to 6.25%.

     Its carefully worded and nuanced rate announcement suggested that 
the FOMC is not facing easy or automatic policy choices as it continues 
to incrementally ratchet up its benchmark short-term interest rate. And 
its tone implied that the Fed will be proceeding cautiously after 
raising the funds rate 425 basis points in 24 months.

     Even while continuing to put emphasis on upside inflation risks, 
the statement takes note of a moderation of growth which it has long 
expected will help contain inflation. And it linked further rate cuts to 
the evolution of both sets of forces to a signficantly greater degree 
than it had in the past.

     It is not obvious from a reading of the rate announcement that the 
FOMC will definitely be raising the funds rate again at its next meeting 
on Aug. 8, although that option was certainly left open. The rate 
announcement makes a pause more likely, but only if the FOMC sees 
the right combination of economic moderation and less alarming inflation 
readings.

    The rate announcement began with the observation that "recent 
indicators suggest that economic growth is moderating from 
its quite strong pace earlier this year, partly reflecting a gradual 
cooling of the housing market and the lagged effects of increases in 
interest rates and energy prices."

     That represented a fulfillment of the FOMC's May 10 prognosis that, 
while "economic growth has been quite strong so far this year," growth 
was "likely to moderate to a more sustainable pace ... ." Data since the 
May meeting have seemingly validated the Fed's forecast of less rapid 
growth.

     The latest rate announcement then turned to the inflation picture, 
which has worsened since the last meeting. "Readings on core inflation 
have been elevated in recent months," it said.

     "Ongoing productivity gains have held down the rise in unit labor 
costs, and inflation expectations remain contained," the statement 
continued. "However, the high levels of resource utilization and of the 
prices of energy and other commodities have the potential to sustain 
inflation pressures." 

     That represented a mild escalation of the FOMC's rhetoric on 
inflation from that used in the May 10 rate announcement, which stated, 
"As yet, the run-up in the prices of energy and other commodities 
appears to have had only a modest effect on core inflation, ongoing 
productivity gains have helped to hold the growth of unit labor costs in 
check, and inflation expectations remain contained. Still, possible 
increases in resource utilization, in combination with the elevated 
prices of energy and other commodities, have the potential to add to 
inflation pressures." 

     The key policy paragraph in the latest rate announcement is similar 
to that of May 10 in that both leave the FOMC leeway to raise rates 
further. But the new one differs in an important respect: it puts more 
importance on the outlook for the pace of economic growth.

     "Although moderation in the growth of aggregate demand should help 
to limit inflation pressures over time, the Committee judges that some 
inflation risks remain," the policy paragraph begins.

     "The extent and timing of any additional firming that may be needed 
to address these risks will depend on the evolution of the outlook for 
both inflation and economic growth, as implied by incoming information," 
it continues. "In any event the Committee will respond to changes in 
economic prospects as needed to support the attainment of its 
objectives." 

     In the prior statement, the FOMC had said, "The Committee judges 
that some further policy firming may yet be needed to address inflation 
risks but emphasizes that the extent and timing of any such firming will 
depend importantly on the evolution of the economic outlook as implied 
by incoming information. In any event, the Committee will respond to 
changes in economic prospects as needed to support the attainment of its 
objectives."

     The new formulation implies a greater degree of balance in the way 
the FOMC will be weighing inflation and growth.

     Fed policymakers have been hoping for some time that a moderation 
of demand would bring economic growth back into line with its potential 
or "trend" pace -- in the process bringing core inflation back to within 
a more acceptable 1-2% range. 

     Officials have said that when trend growth has actually been 
achieved, the Fed will be able to conclude that monetary policy is 
roughly "neutral."

     There has been doubt, however, as to whether the economy is in fact 
slowing sufficiently and sustainably to counteract inflation pressures. 
This will continue to be the central issue upon which policymakers will 
focus in the weeks and months ahead.

  ** Market News International Washington Bureau: 202-371-2121 **

[TOPICS: M$U$$$,MMUFE$,MGU$$$,MFU$$$]  
   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBMarket News International, Inc.   ANDocument MARNEW0020060630e26t00016  



 HDAnalysis: FOMC Leaves Leeway to Hike Further or to Pause     WC1,001 words   PD29 June 2006   ET21:50   SNMarket News International   SCMARNEW   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006. Market News International, Inc.  
   TD
--Retransmitting Story Published 15:34 ET;Changing Headline to 'Analysis'
--Fed Policymakers Looking For Sustained Moderation, Friendlier Core

By Steven K. Beckner

     WASHINGTON (MNI) - After raising the federal funds rate yet again, 
Federal Reserve policymakers did not prejudge the need to raise rates 
further, but made clear it is quite prepared to do so depending on 
whether or not economic growth continues to moderate and/or whether core 
inflation remains "elevated." 

     At the same time, while it did not signal it is ready to pause with 
the funds rate at 5.25%, the Fed's rate-setting Federal Open Market 
Committee did not rule out that possibility in a rate announcement 
explaining its action. 

     But neither did it foreclose further increases in the key money 
market rate to 5.5% or even beyond if the data don't prove conducive to 
a pause. 

     For the seventh straight meeting since it began raising the funds 
rate from 1% two years ago, the FOMC raised the rate at which banks 
borrow reserves from each other overnight by 25 basis points. The vote 
was a unanimous 10-0.

     At the request of the boards of directors of 10 Federal Reserve 
Banks, the Fed Board of Governors, acting in concert with the FOMC, 
raised the discount rate by 25 basis points to 6.25%.

     Its carefully worded and nuanced rate announcement suggested that 
the FOMC is not facing easy or automatic policy choices as it continues 
to incrementally ratchet up its benchmark short-term interest rate. And 
its tone implied that the Fed will be proceeding cautiously after 
raising the funds rate 425 basis points in 24 months.

     Even while continuing to put emphasis on upside inflation risks, 
the statement takes note of a moderation of growth which it has long 
expected will help contain inflation. And it linked further rate cuts to 
the evolution of both sets of forces to a signficantly greater degree 
than it had in the past.

     It is not obvious from a reading of the rate announcement that the 
FOMC will definitely be raising the funds rate again at its next meeting 
on Aug. 8, although that option was certainly left open. The rate 
announcement makes a pause more likely, but only if the FOMC sees 
the right combination of economic moderation and less alarming inflation 
readings.

    The rate announcement began with the observation that "recent 
indicators suggest that economic growth is moderating from 
its quite strong pace earlier this year, partly reflecting a gradual 
cooling of the housing market and the lagged effects of increases in 
interest rates and energy prices."

     That represented a fulfillment of the FOMC's May 10 prognosis that, 
while "economic growth has been quite strong so far this year," growth 
was "likely to moderate to a more sustainable pace ... ." Data since the 
May meeting have seemingly validated the Fed's forecast of less rapid 
growth.

     The latest rate announcement then turned to the inflation picture, 
which has worsened since the last meeting. "Readings on core inflation 
have been elevated in recent months," it said.

     "Ongoing productivity gains have held down the rise in unit labor 
costs, and inflation expectations remain contained," the statement 
continued. "However, the high levels of resource utilization and of the 
prices of energy and other commodities have the potential to sustain 
inflation pressures." 

     That represented a mild escalation of the FOMC's rhetoric on 
inflation from that used in the May 10 rate announcement, which stated, 
"As yet, the run-up in the prices of energy and other commodities 
appears to have had only a modest effect on core inflation, ongoing 
productivity gains have helped to hold the growth of unit labor costs in 
check, and inflation expectations remain contained. Still, possible 
increases in resource utilization, in combination with the elevated 
prices of energy and other commodities, have the potential to add to 
inflation pressures." 

     The key policy paragraph in the latest rate announcement is similar 
to that of May 10 in that both leave the FOMC leeway to raise rates 
further. But the new one differs in an important respect: it puts more 
importance on the outlook for the pace of economic growth.

     "Although moderation in the growth of aggregate demand should help 
to limit inflation pressures over time, the Committee judges that some 
inflation risks remain," the policy paragraph begins.

     "The extent and timing of any additional firming that may be needed 
to address these risks will depend on the evolution of the outlook for 
both inflation and economic growth, as implied by incoming information," 
it continues. "In any event the Committee will respond to changes in 
economic prospects as needed to support the attainment of its 
objectives." 

     In the prior statement, the FOMC had said, "The Committee judges 
that some further policy firming may yet be needed to address inflation 
risks but emphasizes that the extent and timing of any such firming will 
depend importantly on the evolution of the economic outlook as implied 
by incoming information. In any event, the Committee will respond to 
changes in economic prospects as needed to support the attainment of its 
objectives."

     The new formulation implies a greater degree of balance in the way 
the FOMC will be weighing inflation and growth.

     Fed policymakers have been hoping for some time that a moderation 
of demand would bring economic growth back into line with its potential 
or "trend" pace -- in the process bringing core inflation back to within 
a more acceptable 1-2% range. 

     Officials have said that when trend growth has actually been 
achieved, the Fed will be able to conclude that monetary policy is 
roughly "neutral."

     There has been doubt, however, as to whether the economy is in fact 
slowing sufficiently and sustainably to counteract inflation pressures. 
This will continue to be the central issue upon which policymakers will 
focus in the weeks and months ahead.

  ** Market News International Washington Bureau: 202-371-2121 **

[TOPICS: M$U$$$,MMUFE$,MGU$$$,MFU$$$]  
   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBMarket News International, Inc.   ANDocument MARNEW0020060630e26t00018  



 HDReuters Summit-Enough of Fed rate hikes, real estate execs say     BYBy Ben Klayman     WC525 words   PD28 June 2006   ET18:38   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006 Reuters Limited  
   LP(For other news from the Reuters Real Estate Summit, click on  http://today.reuters.com/summit/SummitInfo.aspx?name=RealEstateSummit06&pid=500 )  

NEW YORK, June 28 (Reuters) - U.S. real estate executives hope the Federal Reserve Bank signals interest rate hikes are complete after the latest expected increase this week.  
   TDInflation and potential Federal Reserve interest rate hikes -- and how many of them -- are the top concerns among the executives, who spoke at the Reuters Real Estate Summit. The Fed's policy-making committee begins a two-day meeting on Wednesday.  

The central bank, which has raised rates by a quarter of a percentage point each at 16 consecutive meetings, is widely expected to raise them by at least another quarter point at this meeting.  

"As a businessman it makes me nervous how much they're tightening," Michael Pralle, the head of General Electric Co.'s vast real estate operations, said at the summit, held at Reuters headquarters in New York.  

Beazer Homes USA Inc. Chief Executive Ian McCarthy does not think the Fed has been too aggressive so far, but worries about more increases beyond this week.  

"If there's one more increase ... that would probably be good. Do we need any more than that? I'm not sure that we do," he said. "We don't want to tighten the economy down so far that it impacts the markets."  

A dramatic decline in the U.S. housing market also could damage the U.S. economy, Pralle said.  

"If you have a significant value decline in major markets like New York, Boston and San Francisco, that could significantly impair confidence in the economy," he said, adding he did not think there was a national housing bubble.  

However, Robert Toll, CEO of luxury home builder Toll Brothers Inc. , said the repeated quarter-point interest rate increases have been somewhat maddening.  

"This Chinese water treatment of a quarter of a point (hikes), it hasn't had its desired effect," he said.  

"Do I think the Fed has overdone it? No," Toll added. "I think the Fed has underdone it in the past."  

The executives want the Fed to maintain a balance between fighting inflation and not stifling the economy with its interest rate policies, as the real estate industry has seen stable or rising prices and rents in the various sectors of the market.  

While the second-quarter gross domestic product is expected to slow from the first quarter's blistering 5.3 percent pace, it will remain strong, said Richard Kincaid, CEO of Equity Office Properties Trust , the largest publicly traded office building landlord.  

"My sense is the economy goes to somewhere around 2.5, 3.5 percent GDP," he said. "It slows, but it's still going at a good pace."  

And overconfidence will not be a problem.  

"We all have learned the lessons of being too optimistic," said Robert Speyer, senior managing director for U.S. real estate developer and investor Tishman Speyer.  
   RFPROPERTY-SUMMIT-ECONOMY|LANGEN|ABN|E|RBN|U|D|M|RNP|DNP   INi3302 : Computers/Electronics | i64 : Retail/Wholesale | icre : Construction/Real Estate | ielec : Electronics   NSe1122 : Mortgage Applications/Refinancing | gent : Arts/Entertainment | m16 : Fund Markets | mcpdbt : Corporate Debt/Bond Markets | e1202 : Interest Rates | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCREA | MTG | DBT | CON | ELC | APL | RET | RSUM | REAM | INV | FUND | ENT | PRL | CPX   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument LBA0000020060628e26s001co  



 HD Federal Reserve  mulling interest rates at two-day session     BYBy JEANNINE AVERSA     CRAP Economics Writer   WC762 words   PD28 June 2006   ET21:00   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.  
   LPWASHINGTON (AP) - Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke and his colleagues are poised to boost interest rates, wanting to make sure high energy prices do not spark a broader bout of inflation.  

The Federal Open Market Committee, the group that sets interest rate policy in the United States, met Wednesday to study the U.S. economy's latest vital signs, including the outlook for inflation.  
   TDOne more jump in rates was expected at the conclusion of the Fed's two-day meeting Thursday.  

The central bank is widely anticipated to raise its key federal funds rate by a quarter-percentage point to 5.25 percent in what would be the 17th consecutive rate hike by that amount during credit-tightening cycle that has extended to two years.  

The funds rate influences a variety of interest rates, such as those on adjustable-rate and other mortgages. It also affect rates on business loans.  

In response to the Fed's expected move, commercial banks are poised to boost their prime lending rate -- used for certain credit cards, home equity and other loans -- to 8.25 percent.  

"That will hit people in the pocketbook," said Anthony Sabino, professor of business law and economics at St. John's University.  

The average rate nationally on a home-equity line of credit has gone from 4.77 percent to 8.09 percent in the two years since the Fed began its rate-raising campaign, according to figures compiled by Bankrate.com  

The average rate for a one-year certificate of deposit has climbed from 1.51 percent to 3.80 percent over the same period. The average rate on a savings account, meanwhile, has advanced only from 0.42 percent two years ago to 0.54 percent today.  

It is possible the central bank might nudge rates higher at its next meeting, in August, depending on how inflation and economic activity unfold.  

For Bernanke and his colleagues, the balancing act is this: pushing up rates enough to thwart inflation, but not so high as to hurt the economy.  

Bernanke has said that rising inflation is not welcome and he has made clear that snuffing it out is the Fed's No. 1 job now.  

Before the Fed's series of increases, the prime rate stood at 4 percent and the funds rate was at 1 percent. It was a boon for borrowers, a bane for savers.  

Those extraordinarily low rates were needed to help brace the economy after the stock market bubble burst, the 2001 recession set in, terrorists struck the United States and accounting scandals rocked Wall Street.  

For many borrowers, much has changed over the past two years.  

The average rate on a one-year adjustable rate mortgage has climbed from 4.13 percent to 5.75 percent, the highest since August 2001, according to the mortgage company Freddie Mac. Thirty-year fixed-rate mortgages rates have gone from 6.25 percent to an average of 6.71 percent, the highest in more than four years.  

The average rate on a five-year new-car loan has not moved as much over the past two years -- from 7.45 percent to 8.13 percent, according to Bankrate.com.  

The average interest rate on a variable-rate credit card was about 10.5 percent in 2004 and is at 13.82 percent now, McBride said.  

It is a different picture for some savers. The average interest on a checking account barely has budged over the past two years, inching up from 0.25 percent in 2004 to 0.29 percent currently. A money market savings account is fetching 0.78 percent, compared with 0.45 percent two years ago.  

The average rate on a five-year CD is 4.17 percent, compared with 3.60 percent two years ago.  

Rate increases for some savings products have been subdued because some banks are flush with consumer deposits and do not feel compelled to pay aggressively to attract more money, experts suggest.  

By boosting borrowing costs, the Fed aims to curb consumers' appetite to spend. This would slow overall economic activity and should lessen inflation pressures.  

To anticipate future interest-rate decisions, financial market observers will carefully weigh language in the FOMC statement, focusing on descriptions of inflation. This month Bernanke and other Fed officials have signaled that key inflation gauges have risen to levels at or above the upper end of their comfort zone.  

------  

On the Net:  

Federal Reserve:  http://www.federalreserve.gov/ 
   RF7   INi81501 : Credit Types/Services | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPCtagpf1wcat | sel----- | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | NA FIN US Fed Interest Rates | D8IHD3T80   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020060628e26s002be  



 HDUS mortgage bonds flat as yield curve reinverts   BYBy Julie Haviv      WC565 words   PD1 July 2006   ET00:23   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006 Reuters Limited   
   LPNEW YORK, June 30 (Reuters) - U.S. mortgage-backed securities ended mostly in line with comparable Treasuries on Friday, ending a volatile week on a soft note, as a shift in the Treasury yield curve brought sellers to the market.

The market opened tighter on overseas demand, but gains were lost when the Treasury yield curve re-inverted. A yield curve inverts when short-dated yields move higher than long-dated yields. Such inversion have often preceded economic slowdowns.
   TDAn inverted yield curve is negative for mortgage bonds since it could suppress bank and collateralized mortgage obligation demand. CMOs are structured with MBS and are tailored to meet the specific requirements of investors.

"Another layer of heavy supply was applied to a despondent dealer community," said a senior mortgage trader. "MBS were unable to build upon a weeks worth of tightening."

After tightening for four consecutive sessions, mortgage bonds ended the week mostly unchanged versus Treasuries despite month-end index-related buying, he said.

Active 15- and 30-year mortgage securities were 2/32 to 9/32 higher. Bond equivalent yields on 30-year 5.50 percent coupon MBS ranged from 6.118 percent to 6.264 percent, 0.040 percentage point to 0.042 percentage point lower than late Thursday.

Prices on 30-year 6.00 percent coupons were 6/32 to 9/32 higher. Bond equivalent yields ranged from 6.201 percent to 6.344 percent, 0.039 percentage point to 0.061 percentage point lower than the previous session.

Benchmark 10-year Treasuries <US10YT=RR> were 13/32 higher at 99-27/32 to yield 5.145 percent on Friday. Yields, which move inversely to price, were down from Thursday's 5.202 percent.

There are many factors that are currently supportive of mortgage bonds right now, such as low volatility, a Federal Reserve possibly near the end of tightening, minimal refinancing risk and benign convexity in the mortgage universe.

In the U.S. Treasury market, prices rose as a subdued inflation reading and a weaker-than-expected regional manufacturing report reinforced investors' perception the Federal Reserve is nearing an end to interest rate increases after two years.

Treasuries retained their buoyancy from Thursday, when they rallied after the Fed raised its key rate by 0.25 percentage point to 5.25 percent as expected. Analysts said the Fed statement that accompanied that rate hike left the door open to leave rates unchanged at its Aug. 8 policy meeting.

The U.S. core personal consumption expenditures price index, an inflation gauge closely tracked by Fed policymakers, came in as forecast, rising just 0.2 percent in May. For details, see [ID:nN29251873]

The Chicago Purchasing Managers report showed business activity in the U.S. Midwest expanded at a slower rate than expected in June, and was bullish for bonds. For details, see [ID:nN30121301].

Looking ahead, next week ushers in a slew of key economic data, namely Friday's key jobs report for June.

The payroll report, typically one of the main market movers every month, will garner more attention than usual since it may dictate whether the U.S. Federal Reserve continues its interest rate hikes or opts to pause at its next meeting on August 8. 
   RFMARKETS-MORTGAGES|LANGEN|Table|ABN|D|E|RBN|U|M   NSe1122 : Mortgage Applications/Refinancing | e1202 : Interest Rates | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | cmabs : Mortgage Backed Securities | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | c17 : Funding/Capital | c172 : Corporate Debt Instruments | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCMTG | DBT | INT | MCE | AGN | STIR | CPX | MTG/ | EMBG:DBT | embargokeyE1   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020060703e26u001y7  



 HD Federal Reserve  raises interest rates for 17th consecutive time     BYBy MARTIN CRUTSINGER     CRAP Economics Writer   WC726 words   PD29 June 2006   ET22:29   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.  
   LPWASHINGTON (AP) - The Federal Reserve on Thursday raised a key interest rate for the 17th consecutive time but signaled that any further rate hikes would depend on economic developments.  

The central bank boosted the federal funds rate, the interest that banks charge each other, by a quarter-point to 5.25 percent, the highest level in more than five years. When the Fed started its credit tightening campaign two years ago, the funds rate stood at a 46-year low of 1 percent.  
   TDIn the statement explaining the decision, Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke and his colleagues said that "the extent and timing of any additional firming that may be needed to address these risks will depend on the evolution of the outlook for both inflation and economic growth, as implied by incoming information."  

Wall Street, which had been worried that the central bank could overdo its credit tightening, soared on the Fed's comments, believing that the central bank is at least considering a pause in its two-year credit tightening campaign.  

The Dow Jones industrial average, which was up about 80 points before the mid-afternoon announcement, surged higher after the Fed action. The Dow ended the day up 217.24 points to close at 11,190.80, based on preliminary calculations.  

Analysts said while the Fed expressed concerns about inflation, the central bank also noted that the economy has begun to slow, the outcome the central bank has been seeking to achieve to keep inflation contained.  

"The Fed's acknowledgment that the 17 rate increases are having their desired effect ... was cheered by the markets," said Bob Walters, chief economist at Quicken Loans.  

"There is a sense that another rate hike by the Fed won't be automatic. This is a relief rally," said David Jones, chief economist at DMJ Advisors, a Denver-based consulting firm.  

Jones said the wording of the statement gave a hint of a split on the Federal Open Market Committee, the panel of Fed board members and regional bank presidents, who meet eight times a year to set interest rate policy.  

Jones said one camp is concerned that the jump in energy prices this year could be adding to inflation pressures while another group believes the Fed is running the risk of tightening too much and causing a more severe economic slowdown.  

The committee said that "some inflation risks remain" even though it was likely that a moderation in economic growth "should help to limit inflation pressures over time."  

The Fed's rate hikes have raised the borrowing costs for millions of Americans on everything from home mortgages to auto loans.  

Commercial banks quickly followed the Fed announcement by raising their benchmark prime rate by a quarter-point to a five-year high of 8.25 percent. The changes were led by KeyCorp. and Wells Fargo Bank.  

The latest Fed rate hike had been widely expected, given comments Bernanke made on June 5 in which he called a rise in the rate of inflation an "unwelcome" development, a comment that contributed to a one-day 199-point drop in the Dow Jones industrial average.  

Bernanke, a former Princeton economics professor and chief economist for the Bush White House, took over for venerable Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan on Feb. 1. Bernanke's first five months on the job have seen some rocky times as he has alternately sent markets soaring or plunging based on his comments.  

Some economists have complained that Bernanke, in an effort to be more open about the Fed's thinking, is actually increasing confusion.  

In its statement explaining Thursday's action, the Fed noted that recent indicators suggest that "economic growth is moderating from its quite strong pace earlier this year, partly reflecting a gradual cooling of the housing market and the lagged effects of increases in interest rates and energy prices."  

But at the same time, the statement said that "readings on core inflation have been elevated in recent months."  

Analysts said the Fed could still raise rates for an 18th time at the Aug. 8 meeting if those inflation reading continue to be above the Fed's comfort zone and the economy has not shown further signs of slowing.  

------  

On the Net:  

Federal Reserve:  http://www.federalreserve.gov .  
   RF7   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPCtagpf1wcat | sel----- | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | NA FIN US Fed Interest Rates | D8II3GL00   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020060629e26t000ww  



 SESTOCK MARKETS AND CURRENCIES   HDDollar tumbles on soft Fed tone CURRENCIES.   BYBy PETER GARNHAM and JENNIFER HUGHES    WC651 words   PD30 June 2006   SNFinancial Times   SCFTFT   EDLondon Ed1   PGPage 38   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPThe dollar tumbled against the euro and other leading currencies yesterday as investors treated a tweaking of the tone of the Federal Reserve's statement as a sign that the central bank could pause its steady series of rate rises.

The Fed raised interest rates, as expected, by a quarter-point to 5.25 per cent but slightly softened the tone of its statement. While the bank said "some inflation risks remain" and discussed the chances of "any additional firming that may be needed", it removed the word "yet", which investors thought eased the likelihood of another move in August. Shortly after the decision, the euro was at Dollars 1.261, from Dollars 1.252 before the news. The dollar slid from Y116.2 to Y115.5.
   TD"Position squaring appears to be the driving force, with the market largely seen long of dollars going into the announcement," said analysts at Action Economics.

Mike Berg, at 4Cast consultancy, noted that the euro's rally had been limited by technical resistance at Dollars 1.2620. "But the market is still digesting the communique and there is more price movement to come," he added.

For other currencies the market vigil ahead of the decision had meant that events that might have moved the market - such as expectation-beating eurozone money supply growth data - were largely ignored. Money supply growth in May was 8.9 per cent year-on-year, matching the record pace set in April 2003.

Lena Komileva, G7 market economist at Tullet Prebon, said the data would reinforce the European Central Bank's fears that its current stance on monetary policy was too accommodative.

"Coming on the foot of the firmer Ifo data this week, the data provides justification for a more aggressive ECB stance," she said. "This increases the chances of a 25 basis point move next week, or more likely, a 50 basis point adjustment at the next meeting in August."

Elsewhere, the pressure on Toshihiko Fukui, Bank of Japan governor, continued over his investment with a fund manager now charged with insider trading.

Kozo Yamamoto, head of the ruling Liberal Democratic party's monetary policy panel, became the first senior politician from the party to call for Mr Fukui's exit. Traders have speculated that Mr Fukui's departure might prompt the postponement of an expected interest rate rise from the BoJ next month.

Derek Halpenny, senior economist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, said Mr Yamamoto had long been "anti-BoJ" and his call was unlikely to hold much sway with more senior members of the Japanese government.

"Whatever the outcome, a July rate hike followed by a long pause is still the likeliest course of monetary policy in Japan," said Mr Halpenny. "That realisation could well be the catalyst for the next lurch upwards in the dollar against the yen."

Sterling fell to a two-month low against the dollar, losing 0.3 per cent to Dollars 1.8134, and eased 0.2 per cent against the euro to Pounds 0.6916 as comments from Mervyn King, Bank of England governor, conspired with weaker-than-expected June UK house price data from the Nationwide Building Society to send the pound lower.

Dealers said Mr King's testimony to the UK's Treasury Select Committee, in which he highlighted the deflationary effects of the recent drop in equities and the "surprisingly" limited effects of soaring energy costs on the economy, had reduced the chances of a rise in UK interest rates.

The Hungarian forint fell 1.3 per cent to a fresh record low of Ft284.10 against the euro by the London close as weakness in Slovakia assets hit local markets, adding to the recent pressure on the currency caused by fears over Hungary's current account deficit. 
   RF20060630L138.091   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | e52 : Euro Zone/Currency | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTFT000020060630e26u00054  



 SEFT MARKETS   HDHopes Fed is close to end of rate rise cycle GLOBAL OVERVIEW.   BYBy TONY TASSELL    WC418 words   PD30 June 2006   SNFinancial Times   SCFTFT   EDLondon Ed1   PGPage 40   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPWall Street shares leapt yesterday on hopes that the US Federal Reserve is closer to ending the current cycle of interest rate rises.

The central bank, as widely expected, raised its benchmark Fed funds rate by a quarter point to 5.25 per cent - its seventeenth successive increase. Recent fears that the bank might be bolder and make a 50 basis points rise proved unfounded.
   TDSome economists said both the structure and language of the closely-dissected statement accompanying the decision appeared more dovish than recent statements by Fed officials.

The statement acknowledged that "economic growth is moderating from its quite strong pace earlier this year, partly reflecting a gradual cooling of the housing market and the lagged effects of increases in interest rates and energy prices".

It added slower growth should help limit inflation pressures but over time some inflation risks remain.

James Kauffmann, head of active fixed income at ING Investment Management, said this was likely to raise doubts about whether the Fed would raise interest rates again at its next monetary policy meeting in August. However, he said the Fed had indicated any decision would remain dependent on the flow of economic data. "Some of the language and structure of the statement has changed but the outcome is very predictable," he said.

After the decision, the Dow Jones Industrial Average was 1.3 per cent higher, the S&P 500 was up 1.3 per cent and the Nasdaq Composite up 1.4 per cent.

On bond markets, treasuries extended earlier gains. The yield on the 10-year Treasury fell 4.7bp to 5.204 per cent while the two-year yield dropped 6.2bp to 5.22 per cent.

Quincy Krosby, strategist at The Hartford financial services group, said the rate decision provided the catalyst for some institutional investors to carry out "window dressing" of portfolios ahead of the end of thequarter.

She said the "vigil" by investors watching how far the Fed would raise rates would continue ahead of the August policy meeting.

In Europe, the FTSE Eurofirst 300 index jumped 1.8 per cent.

In Asia, stocks also rose strongly, partly in response to the gains on Wall Street's Wednesday session. The Nikkei 225 index rose 1.6 per cent in Tokyo while the Kospi index advanced 2 per cent in Seoul.

In commodity markets, oil, copper and gold all rose. 
   RF20060630L140.119   COnn : ING Groep NV   INi814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | m11 : Equity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTFT000020060630e26u0005b  



 SEFRONT PAGE - FIRST SECTION   HDMarkets rally after statement from Fed *Nuanced announcement accompanies rate rise.   BYBy KRISHNA GUHA and JENNIFER HUGHES    WC509 words   PD30 June 2006   SNFinancial Times   SCFTFT   EDUSA Ed1   PGPage 1   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved 
   LPThe Federal Reserve fuelled a rally in the markets yesterday after it issued an unexpectedly nuanced statement to accompany the 17th successive rise in interest rates to 5.25 per cent.

While the Fed hardened its previous language on inflation, and signalled a bias to tighten further in the future, it fell short of suggesting a cast iron commitment to raise rates again at the next policy meeting on August 8.
   TDThe S&P 500 index, which was already up 0.7 per cent before the Fed issued its statement, jumped nearly 1.5 per cent on the news. Bond prices also rose, while the dollar tumbled more than a cent against the euro as investors reconsidered the interest rate outlook. Futures traders, meanwhile, priced in a reduced probability of an August rate rise - still about 70 per cent, but down from about 90 per cent the day before.

Fed officials will probably be happy with that result, as it reduces the risk that they will be boxed in by market expectations as to what their next policy move will be. "Flexibility seems very important to the Federal Open Market Committee now, suggesting we may be close to the peak in rates," said Tony Dolphin, director of economics at Henderson Global Investors.

The statement has two main components, a renewed emphasis on inflation and inflation risks, partly offset by a confident assertion that the slowdown in growth, which the Fed desires in order to ease inflation pressure, is taking place. The Fed said "economic growth is moderating" - a shift from May, when it said only that growth was "likely to moderate".

But it toughened up its description of inflation, stating that "readings on core inflation have been elevated in recent months" and that high levels of capacity utilisation and energy prices "have the potential to sustain inflation pressures".

As if to underline that the Fed is paying close attention to inflation, the statement mentioned the word six times, compared with four times in its previous statement. The most significant change came towards the end of the statement, where the Fed junked the phrase "some further policy firming may yet be needed to address inflation risks".

It replaced this with a new sentence that said: "Although moderation in the growth of aggregate demand should help to limit inflation pressures overtime, the committee judges that some inflation risks remain."

The Fed said the "extent and timing of any additional firming that may be needed to address these risks" would depend on the way current data revises its forecast for "both inflation and economic growth".

The mention of growth alongside inflation was taken by investors to signal that the Fed would be careful not to overtighten and kill economic growth in response to short term inflation data.

The statement appeared to reflect the preference of Ben Bernanke, the chairman, for more natural language, greater emphasis on the forecasts. 
   RF20060630U101.043   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | m11 : Equity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | npag : Page-One Story | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTFT000020060630e26u0005q  



 HDRepeat:US Bond Mkt Assoc:Fed Hiking Another 25 bps After Thur     WC573 words   PD28 June 2006   ET07:34   SNMarket News International   SCMARNEW   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006. Market News International, Inc.  
   TD
--Retransmitting Story Initially sent 14:14 ET Tuesday
--Expects 25 bps Rate Cut Early in '07

By Mark Hemingway

     WASHINGTON (MNI) - The Federal Reserve is expected to raise rates 
one more time after this week's FOMC meeting to 5.5% by year's end, 
according to the Bond Market Association's Mid Year Economic Forecast 
released Tuesday. 

     "The committee's interest rate forecast suggests that the Fed will 
raise rates by another 25 basis points before the end of 2006 and then 
reduce rates by a quarter-point sometime in early 2007," the forecast 
said. 

     Citigroup's Roberto DiClemente, chairman of the BMA's Economic 
Advisory Committee, explained the justification for the forecasted rate 
cut. "The potential for some rise in slack, some rise in unemployment 
and with the inflation forecast improving it gets harder to defend the 
status quo from a policy standpoint," he said. 

     As for GDP growth, the forecast calls for 3.4% growth in 2006, 
dropping to 2.9% in 2007. "The combination of expansionary fiscal 
policy, generally supportive but tightening financial market conditions, 
significant productivity growth and stabilizing energy costs provide the 
back-drop for sustained growth," the forecast said. 

     As for this week's expected rate hike, the BMA forecast noted some 
members of the BMA's Economic Advisory Committee are looking for the Fed 
to acknowledge an impending moderation of growth. "Most committee 
members expect the statement to be consistent with past pronouncements 
that further tightening could be needed to address inflation. However, 
some panelists believe it will acknowledge that a moderation in economic 
growth is already under way," BMA Senior Vice President Michael Decker 
said.  

     The BMA forecast cited inflation as the "dominant short-term 
concern" in the markets. "The committee cited increased energy prices 
as the dominant upside risk to their inflation outlook, along with the 
impact of a weaker U.S. dollar and sharply rising labor costs," said 
Robert DiClemente, chairman of the Bond Market Association's Economic 
Advisory Committee and head of U.S. economic and market analysis at 
Citigroup Global Markets," DiClemente said. 

     Despite these concerns, the BMA's forecast calls for inflation to 
ease over the next 18 months. "The median forecast anticipates the core 
Personal Consumption Expenditures, or PCE deflator-the preferred Fed 
gauge-to rise to 2.2 percent in 2006 and remain there through 2007, 
slightly above the 1 to 2 percent range that Fed officials are thought 
to deem desirable," the report said. 

     However, the report did note they expected a short-term spike in 
inflation. "In the second quarter of 2006, panelists expect the core PCE 
deflator to reach 2.9 percent before steadily declining to 2.0 percent 
by the fourth quarter of 2007," the report said. 

     Finally, the consensus view of the BMA's Economic Advisory 
Committee expects the yield curve to remain inverted. "The panel expects 
the yield on the 10-year Treasury note to remain near 5.25 percent at 
the end of September and hold there through mid-2007," the report said. 

     "The panelists believe the short end of the curve will continue to 
be affected primarily by Fed policy," Decker said.  "At the same 
time, the long end will be influenced not only by Fed action, but by 
real rates and inflation expectations together with foreign investor 
demand." 

   ** Market News International Washington Bureau: 202-371-2121 **  
   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBMarket News International, Inc.   ANDocument MARNEW0020060628e26s0004a  



 HDUS Swaps: Steepeners Seen As Customer Base Views Fed As Done     WC396 words   PD30 June 2006   ET19:31   SNMarket News International   SCMARNEW   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006. Market News International, Inc.  
   TD

By Alyce Andres-Frantz

     CHICAGO, June 30 (MNI) - U.S. medium term interest rate swaps were 
mostly steady at midsession Friday despite a large influx of steepener 
flows, observers said. 

     One dealer desk said "this (flow) actually started yesterday," 
following the Federal Reserve's move to hike interest rates to 5.25%. 

     Moreover, the Fed in its accompanying statement said: 

     "The extent and timing of any additional firming that may be needed 
to address these risks will depend on the evolution of the outlook for 
both inflation and economic growth, as implied by incoming information." 

     This compared to the May FOMC whereby the Fed said "some further 
policy firming may yet be needed to address inflation risks but 
emphasizes that the extent and timing of any such firming will depend 
importantly on the evolution of the economic outlook as implied by 
incoming information.", 

     This was interpreted as more dovish than most market participants
expected, thus the subsequent Treasury market rally.

     Steepener action was particularly evident in the 2-year/10-year 
swaps curve where mostly levered accounts either initiated new positions 
or unwound flatteners, a dealer desk confirmed. 

     "Real money has be quiet, I think they are well positioned," one 
swaps trader said. 
 
     She added that the levered community also did some outright 
receiving in the 2-year area earlier in the session. 

     The trader said "our customer base thinks the Fed is done." Thus, 
the aggressive move towards steepeners and better outright receiving in 
the short-end. 

     This comes despite some rather aggressive Fed call by some chief 
economists on the Street. Year-end targets according to a Market News 
International survey of chief economists at the primary dealers has 
year-end Fed funds targets between 5.25% and 6%. 

     The trader said while economic research calls for higher rates and 
wider spreads, "they are not talking to customers," who believe the 
opposite. 

Time  (ET)    2Y Swap/Mid   5Y Swap/Mid   10Y Swap/Mid   30Y Swap/Mid

Fri open     +0.00/47.50    -0.25/54.50   +0.00/58.50     +0.00/61.75
1:00         +0.00/47.50    +0.00/54.75   +0.25/58.75     +0.00/61.75
-- e-mail: aandres@marketnews.com

   ** Market News International Chicago Bureau: 708-784-1849 **  
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBMarket News International, Inc.   ANDocument MARNEW0020060630e26u000bt  



 HDMorning FI Analysis: EGBs Lower As Attention Turns To FOMC     WC1,008 words   PD29 June 2006   ET09:22   SNMarket News International   SCMARNEW   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006. Market News International, Inc.  
   TD

     LONDON (MNI) - European Government bonds opened lower on Thursday, 
taking their cue from weaker USTs overnight following a weak $14.0bln 
5-year Note auction and uncertainty ahead of the US Federal Reserve rate 
decision later this session. Whilst a 25bps rate hike in Fed funds is 
widely expected, the main focus will be on the accompanying statement. 

     Ahead of this, a plethora of event risk is noted, with US initial 
jobless claims, final revision to first-quarter GDP, core PCE and 
personal consumption data all due. In the eurozone, M3 and credit 
aggregates data is released at 0800GMT. ECB Governing Council members 
Caruana and Constancio along with ECB President Jean-Claude Trichet are 
due to speak today. In the UK, Bank of England Governor Mervyn King and 
MPC members -- Bean, Barker and Tucker -- are due to testify to the 
Treasury Select Committee of the House of Commons from 0815GMT. 

     US Treasuries fell following the weak $14.0bln 5-year Note auction, 
which was awarded at 5.203% with 8.96% allotted - the highest yielding 
5-year Note auction since Nov 2000 and at a bid-to-cover ratio of 2.05 
times vs 2.02 cover at the previous auction on May 25. Breakdown of the 
bidding participation showed that indirect accounts were awarded 
$2.529bln or 18.3% of the sale - this is down from 22.1% and is also the 
worst showing since June 2003 in percentage terms. 80.0% was allotted to 
dealers and 1.7% to direct accounts. 

     Traders also reported dealer redistribution selling of the new 
supply and some afternoon leveraged account selling. Policy uncertainty 
had sidelined many accounts ahead of the FOMC rate announcement on 
Thursday at 1815GMT. 

     Whilst a 25bps is widely expected and fully priced into the Fed 
funds strip, which will take the Fed funds rate to 5.25% -- this will be 
the 17th consecutive rate hike in this tightening cycle since June 2004. 
The Fed funds strip is also pricing a slim 12% chance of a 50bps rate 
hike, which has been rumoured in recent sessions, but given recent 
anecdotal evidence of slowing economy, this seems unlikely. Traders note 
that the Fed has ceased its previous rate tightening campaigns with 
50bps rate hikes. 

     Of greater interest will the accompanying statement to gauge the 
probability of the next hike, where the August Fed Funds contract is 
implying a 64% chance of another 25bps rate hike on the August 8 FOMC 
meeting to take Fed funds rate to 5.50%. 

     Elsewhere, there is plenty of event risk ahead of then. Data 
already out includes Swiss CPI data, German May ILO employment data and 
wholesale sales, UK Nationwide house price index. French data includes 
final Q1 GDP and unemployment. Spain data includes retail sales for May 
and flash. 

     Looking ahead, the main German SA unemployment data is due for 
official release at 0755GMT. This is bound to be leaked in advance, but 
the median forecasts for the SA change in unemployment is for a fall of 
30k. 

     Eurozone May M3 money supply and credit aggregates data are 
released at 0800GMT, at the same time as ECB Governing Council member 
Jaime Caruana is due to hold a press conference in Madrid. Also at 
0800GMT, Norway retail sales and unemployment data are due. 

     UK events include the testimony of Bank of England MPC members, 
which includes Bank of England Governor Mervyn King and MPC members -- 
Bean, Barker and Tucker -- to the Treasury Select Committee of the House 
of Commons from 0815GMT. They look set to give a steady signal on rate 
policy and will focus on the bank's May Inflation Report. 

     UK data includes the 0830GMT release of final M4 money supply, 
consumer credit and mortgage approvals data for May. 

     The Norges Bank interest rate announcement is due at 1200GMT and 
the Deposit rate is expected to remain on hold at 2.75%, at the same 
time as the central bank releases its latest inflation report. Also at 
1200GMT, ECB Governing Council member Vitor Constancio is due to speak 
at event hosted by the Portuguese-Spanish Chamber of Commerce and 
Industry in Lisbon. 

     US data at 1230GMT sees the weekly jobless claims, GDP, the chain 
price index, and personal income. 

     Jobless claims are expected to be nearly unchanged in the week 
ended June 24, up a scant 2k to 310k. The four-week moving average 
indicates the underlying trend is hovering around that level. 

     Meanwhile, first quarter GDP is expected to be revised modestly 
higher to +5.6% for the final report on improvements in net exports, 
while the chain price index is expected to be unrevised at +3.3%. 
However, markets have already turned their attention to the second 
quarter. 

     Personal income is anticipated to rise an anaemic 0.2% in May as 
hourly earnings inched up 0.1% and the aggregate hours index declined 
0.2% on a 33.8 hour work week and a 75,000 gain in payrolls. PCE is 
expected to rise 0.4%. A dip in auto sales could slow the durables goods 
component, but non-auto retail sales rose 0.5% on another jump in 
gasoline pump prices and will likely boost the nondurable component. 

     Also at 1230GMT, Canadian data includes GDP and industrial product 
prices. 

     Further US data includes the 1400GMT release of the Help-wanted 
Index, natural gas stocks data at 1430GMT and the Kansas City Fed index 
at 1500GMT. 

     At 1345GMT, ECB President Jean-Claude Trichet speaks on "Further 
Integrating Euro Area Economics: Some Reflections," at the Ifo institute 
in Munich. 

     Later events include Bank of Canada's Jenkins speaking on "What 
monetary policy can and can't do" from 1640GMT, while President Bush is 
due to host Japanese Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi at the White 
House. 

     After that, it is all eyes on the main event, with the FOMC 
announcement due to come at around 1815GMT. 

-- London bureau: +4420 7634 1655; e-mail: nshamim@marketnews.com  
   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | ecat : Economic News   REuk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe   PUBMarket News International, Inc.   ANDocument MARNEW0020060629e26t0005e  



 HDEURO SWAPS-Rates track bond yields lower before Fed verdict     WC281 words   PD29 June 2006   ET16:35   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006 Reuters Limited  
   LPLONDON, June 29 (Reuters) - Euro swap rates fell across the maturity spectrum on Thursday, tracking government bond yields which pulled back from multi-year highs ahead of a key U.S. interest rate decision.  

After a non-stop rise over the past two weeks, bond yields eased after revised U.S. data on first quarter growth soothed concerns about inflation.  
   TDTwo-year euro zone bond yields slipped to 3.55 percent <EU2YT=RR>, having hit a four-year high above 3.63 percent in early trade. Ten-year yields <EU10YT=RR> eased below 4.06 percent, having risen to a two-year high above 4.11 percent earlier this week. However, the moves came in thin trade when most investors were content to wait to see if the Federal Reserve tweaks the wording of its statement after a widely-expected interest rate increase later in the day.  

"People are covering short positions ahead of the Fed's decision," said Alessandro Tentori. "The front end of the market has sold off aggressively in the last 11 sessions and now it's rallying strongly.  

The Federal Reserve is widely expected to raise overnight rates for a 17th consecutive time at 1815 GMT when it wraps up its two-day policy meeting. The big question is what the central bank might say about the need for further credit tightening.  

In the swap market, rates were 2.5 to 3.5 basis points higher in 2- to 50-year maturities and 0.7 percent higher for a one-year maturity.  
   RFMARKETS-FINANCIAL-SWAPS|LANGEN|ABN|M|D|RBN|RNP|DNP|PTD|PMF   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | e214 : Sub-national/Local Borrowing | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m131 : Money Markets | m15 : Derivative Securities | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mcpdbt : Corporate Debt/Bond Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e21 : Government Finance | e212 : Government Borrowing | ecat : Economic News | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REeurz : Europe | usa : United States | weurz : Western Europe | namz : North America   IPCSTIR | MCE | MMT | DBT | DRV | GVD | INT | EUROSWAPS/   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument LBA0000020060629e26t001dn  



 HDSummary Box: Fed statement raises hopes it could be 17 and done for interest rates     BYBy The Associated Press     WC91 words   PD30 June 2006   ET12:39   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.  
   LPRATE RELIEF: After two years and 17 consecutive interest rate increases, the Federal Reserve could finally be finished raising rates to fight inflation.  

SUBTLE CLUES: The central bank announced it was boosting a key rate by one-quarter percentage point but provided several hints that rate increases could be ending.  
   TDSTOCKS RALLY: Wall Street bet on an end to the rate hikes, and the Dow rose 217 points after the announcement.  
   RF7   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagdsp | sel----- | catw   IPDAP National News | Washington | Fed Interest Rates Summary Box | D8IIFVA80   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020060630e26u00199  



 HDANALYSIS-After Treasuries Q2 slide, funds may get more positive     BYBy John Parry     WC841 words   PD29 June 2006   ET22:11   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006 Reuters Limited  
   LPNEW YORK, June 29 (Reuters) - Fund managers, whose selling helped drive down U.S. Treasury bond prices in the second quarter this year, now look likely to buy bonds again as the Federal Reserve's cycle of interest-rate rises near an end.  

The central bank on Thursday lifted the fed funds rate for a 17th straight time, to 5.25 percent.  
   TDWhile federal funds futures on the Chicago Board of Trade still show a slightly better than even chance of an August rate rise, analysts said the Fed's policy statement on Thursday has left the central bank more room to pause its rate increases in August than previously thought.  

Some bond fund managers have been preparing for a scenario of more muted inflation and a slowing economy for some time, and are starting to add to holdings at the longer end of the yield curve.  

Bond-fund giant PIMCO, which has had a major bet on short-dated Treasuries in place for about a year, reckons that not only will these provide hefty returns once the Fed prepares to trim rates, but that long maturities will also gain in price.  

"We still believe the 10-year will be range-bound between 4 and 5.5 percent," said Mark Kiesel, who oversees a team managing $50 billion of fixed-income securities at PIMCO in Newport Beach, California.  

With the 10-year yield near a four-year high, "we are increasingly viewing the market as attractive." He said PIMCO has slightly increased its holdings of longer-dated Treasuries in the past few weeks.  

Kiesel noted some flight-to-safety shifts in the past month into the Treasury market out of riskier global assets such as emerging-market debt, corporate bonds, and junk bonds, and he expects those shifts to continue once the Fed stops lifting rates.  

The fed funds rate may go as high as 5.5 percent, Kiesel said, but added, "I don't think they will go higher than that, because evidence of the economy slowing is going to be hitting us very soon."  

A cooling housing market may be the main catalyst for economic growth to slow, which could limit gross domestic product to about 2.0 percent growth within six months, he said.  

"If housing continues to slow, the Fed would not have any reason to continue raising rates," Kiesel said.  

PAIN WILL TAKE SOME TIME TO DISSIPATE  

However, the pain that holders of U.S. government bonds suffered in the first three months of 2006 as well as in the second quarter may take some time to dissipate. Treasuries are about to end the first half of the year with their largest six-month price decline since early 1999.  

"The quarter that is just about to pass has been marked by simply more defensive posturing on behalf of the portfolios," said William O'Donnell, head of U.S. interest rate strategy and research with UBS in Stamford, Connecticut.  

"The key catalyst has been without a doubt the hawkish rhetoric from the Fed."  

With policy-makers' still warning about inflation, some Wall Street economists reckon the central bank could raise the federal funds rate, the rate on overnight loans between banks, again in August.  

The two-year note's yield <US2YT=RR>, which responds quickly to expectations for Fed policy, surged to 5 1/2-year highs this week above 5.29 percent, from 4.82 percent at the end of the first quarter. The benchmark 10-year yield <US10YT=RR> has risen to a four-year high above 5.25 percent from 4.85 percent at the end of March.  

Lehman Brothers expects the 10-year yield to peak around 5.30 percent as investors start to price in slower U.S. economic growth later this year.  

CAUGHT OFF-GUARD  

The upward shift in rate-hike expectations earlier this month may have caught some fund managers off-guard.  

"Portfolios began the quarter pretty well balanced relative to their duration targets," O'Donnell said. "As the quarter is just about to end, they are much more defensively postured relative to their duration benchmarks."  

Duration measures the sensitivity of a bond's price to interest-rate movements. Longer-dated bond prices move more than those of shorter maturities in reaction to the same magnitude of shift in yield.  

"Our view is that the market has been underestimating, generally, the potential for Fed rate increases, so we have been somewhat defensive in duration," said Bill Kohli, managing director and global specialist in core fixed income, at Putnam Investments in Boston, which has held fewer Treasury securities than its benchmarks suggest for about the past 18 months.  

It is not out of the question that the funds rate could rise as high as 6.0 percent, because of consumer price inflation, and the potential for global economic growth to continue at a quick pace, Kohli added.  
   RFMARKETS-BONDS-QUARTER (ANALYSIS)|LANGEN|ABN|M|D   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | e1202 : Interest Rates | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m131 : Money Markets | m16 : Fund Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mcpdbt : Corporate Debt/Bond Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ecat : Economic News | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCINV | FUND | CEN | MCE | FED | INT | PLCY | MMT | DBT | GVD | US/ | EMBG:DBT | EMBG:PLCY | embargokeyE1   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument LBA0000020060702e26t000ha  



 HDUPDATE 2-Tanigaki says Japan deflation improving, not over     WC313 words   PD30 June 2006   ET06:03   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006 Reuters Limited  
   LP(Adds comments, background)  

TOKYO, June 30 (Reuters) - Finance Minister Sadakazu Tanigaki said on Friday that the deflationary situation in Japan was improving but was not over yet, and wanted Bank of Japan monetary policy to keep supporting the economy.  
   TD"Deflation is improving quite a bit but it is not over yet," he told a news conference. "The Bank of Japan should continue its policy to ensure that the economy clearly emerges from deflation and does not return to it," he added.  

He also said in reply to a question that investments by BOJ Governor Toshihiko Fukui, at the centre of a row for having put money into a scandal-tainted equity fund, did not contravene the central bank's internal rules.  

A media report on Friday said Fukui held $120,000 in a foreign currency account, set up when he was in the private sector.  

On currencies, Tanigaki said his ministry would continue to monitor markets after the yen rose against the dollar after the U.S. Federal Reserve on Thursday gave the clearest signal yet that it may soon take a break from a two-year campaign of non-stop interest rate increases.  

"As always, we continue to monitor the market," he said.  

Tanigaki also said interest rate differentials would be an important factor when overseeing foreign exchange policy.  

He made the remarks after being asked about the possibility of shrinking interest rate differentials between Japan and the United States as investors perceived the Fed may pause in its tightening cycle while the BOJ seeks to raise interest rates from zero.  

The finance ministry controls Japan's currency policy while the BOJ merely acts as its agent in the market.  
   RFECONOMY-JAPAN-TANIGAKI (UPDATE 2)|LANGEN|J|ABN|E|RBN|M|D|U|NAT|ABX|BNX|FUN|RNP|DNP|PTD   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | e1202 : Interest Rates | gcat : Political/General News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ntop : Dow Jones/Reuters Top Wire News | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REjap : Japan | usa : United States | asiaz : Asia | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America   IPCMCE | PLCY | NEWS | BOJ | INT   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument LBA0000020060630e26u0004b  



 HDU.S. central bank raises interest rates for 17th time in a row, but hints the increases might stop     BYBy MARTIN CRUTSINGER     CRAP Economics Writer   WC773 words   PD30 June 2006   ET08:04   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.  
   LPWASHINGTON (AP) - After two years and 17 consecutive interest rate increases, the Federal Reserve is hinting that it might finally be finished raising rates to fight inflation.  

The central bank announced Thursday it was boosting rates to their highest level in more than five years, but provided several hints that those rate increases could be drawing to a close. Stocks posted a huge relief rally, driving the Dow Jones industrial average up by 217 points.  
   TDFor one thing, the Fed modified a phrase it had been using in some variation since December that some future rates hikes may be needed to combat inflation.  

Instead, the central bank said that the "extent and timing of any additional firming that may be needed" will depend on incoming data.  

Also, the central bank noted that the economy was "moderating from its strong pace earlier this year."  

Those changes in the Fed's statement were all Wall Street needed to stage a huge rebound after stock prices took a big hit in early June. At that time, worries about inflation pressures from Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke sent the Dow tumbling by 199 points in a single day.  

"The markets were right to rally. They had become too gloomy about the outlook for interest rates," said Lyle Gramley, a former Fed governor, who predicted that Thursday's rate increase will be the last.  

However, other economists were not so sure. While the Fed did talk about the economy slowing, Bernanke and his colleagues also expressed concerns about rising inflation pressures.  

The central bank said the "high levels of resource utilization" -- Fedspeak for tight labor markets -- and "the prices of energy and other commodities have the potential to sustain inflation pressures."  

"The Fed did acknowledge that the economy is slowing but they also acknowledged that inflation is going up," said David Wyss, chief economist at Standard & Poor's in New York, who predicted a final 18th rate increase at the Fed's Aug. 8 meeting.  

Part of the reason some analysts are looking for another rate increase is that Bernanke is still getting settled into his job, after having succeeded Fed legend Alan Greenspan in February, and he wants to prove his inflation-fighting mettle.  

The Fed's latest move pushed the federal funds rate, the interest banks charge each other, to 5.25 percent and was quickly matched by a quarter-point increase in commercial banks' prime lending rate, which rose to 8.25 percent. Both rates were the highest in more than five years.  

Some economists said the Fed's statement gave hints of a split on the Federal Open Market Committee, the panel of Fed board members and regional bank presidents who meet eight times a year to decide interest rates.  

"I think we see evidence in the release of a spirited debate among policy-makers," said David Jones, chief economist at DMJ Advisors, a Denver-based consulting firm. "It represents a compromise between more hawkish members who are still worried about inflation and others who are starting to worry that the Fed could overdo it on the tightening side."  

The Fed's goal is to engineer a soft landing in which interest rates are tightened enough to slow economic growth to a more sustainable pace and keep inflation from getting out of hand. But often the Fed's efforts bring about a more severe slowdown.  

Greenspan, considered the most successful Fed chairman in history, achieved a soft-landing after a period of tightening in 1994-95. However, two other Greenspan credit-tightening campaigns in 1988-89 and 1999-2000 were followed by recessions.  

At the moment, economists are forecasting a slowdown but not a recession, with overall economic growth, which raced ahead at a sizzling 5.6 percent rate in the first three months of this year, slowing to around 3 percent in the current quarter and around 2.5 percent in the second half of the year.  

However, when growth slows that much, unexpected economic shocks such as a sudden further jump in energy prices or a more severe falloff in housing activity could be enough to result in a more severe slowdown.  

But if that occurs, the Fed has the ability to quickly reverse course and start cutting interest rates, something the central bank has done in the past.  

"Fed officials often find themselves cutting rates within six months of their last tightening move," Gramley said.  

------  

On the Net:  

Federal Reserve:  http://www.federalreserve.gov 
   RF7   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPCtagpf1wcat | sel----- | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | NA FIN US Fed Interest Rates | D8IIBU3G0   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020060630e26u000c7  



 HDU.S. options fear gauge slides after Fed rate hike     BYBy Doris Frankel     WC501 words   PD29 June 2006   ET22:51   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006 Reuters Limited  
   LPCHICAGO, June 29 (Reuters) - The Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index <.VIX> or VIX dropped sharply after the Federal Reserve raised benchmark U.S. interest rates as expected and noted the potential for slower economic growth ahead on Thursday.  

Often referred to as Wall Street's fear gauge, the VIX sank nearly 18 percent to 13.03, after posting a session low of 12.93, it lowest level since mid-May on Thursday as U.S. stocks surged.  
   TDU.S. stocks rallied as market participants interpreted the central bank's policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee policy statement as a signal the Fed may be more inclined to pause after its latest interest rate increase.  

The Fed lifted benchmark rates by one-quarter percentage point, as expected, for a 17th straight meeting, taking the federal funds rate to 5.25 percent, its highest level since March 2001.  

"Today's decline in the VIX is a strong sign that investor anxiety is waning after digesting comments by the FOMC," said Ken Tower, chief market strategist at CyberTrader Inc., a division of Charles Schwab & Co.  

The VIX, which measures projected volatility embedded in near-term Standard & Poor's 500 <.SPX> index option prices, typically runs counter to the S&P benchmark.  

It often rises to indicate participants are becoming more anxious about the market. As investors' fear subsides, VIX levels tend to decline, reflecting more optimism or complacency.  

In a statement announcing its action, the FOMC said there were some recent signs that economic growth was moderating, partly because of the gradual cooling of housing markets and higher interest rates.  

"The key comment from the Fed that moved the markets to the upside was that they view that economic growth has moderated," said Greg Jensen, executive vice president of Spread Trade Systems, a Utah-based options education firm.  

He noted "this hint of a Fed becoming less hawkish than they had been in the past" encouraged investors, and sent the major stock benchmarks to the highs of Thursday's session.  

CyberTrader's Tower echoed that view.  

"Today's stock market rally and the simultaneous sharp decline of volatility as evidenced in the VIX, suggests that investors are much more confident about the Federal Reserve's ability to manage economic growth going forward," he said.  

WHAT'S NEXT?  

Typically, option market makers would have marked down prices before a long holiday weekend such as the upcoming Independence Day July 4th holiday in the U.S. in anticipation of there being fewer trading days before options expiration.  

"But the sharp rally we saw today, did the job for them," said Tim Biggam, options strategist at Man Financial, an options brokerage firm in Chicago.  

"That just leaves position squaring by portfolio managers in front of Friday's end-of-the-month, end-of-quarter period."  
   RFFINANCIAL-OPTIONS-SENTIMENT|LANGEN|ABN|M|D|E|RBN|U|RNP|DNP   NSe1101 : Economic Growth | m15 : Derivative Securities | m16 : Fund Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | e1202 : Interest Rates | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCDRV | EXCA | STX | INV | FUND   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument LBA0000020060629e26t0023f  



 HDCHRONOLOGY-Fed funds rate changes since 1990     WC732 words   PD29 June 2006   ET20:24   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006 Reuters Limited  
   LPNEW YORK, June 29 (Reuters) - The Federal Reserve raised the benchmark federal funds rate to 5.25 percent from 5.00 percent on Thursday, the central bank's 17th consecutive interest-rate hike since it began tightening monetary policy in June 2004.  

The following is a chronology of the Federal Reserve's changes in the federal funds rate since 1990.  
   TDMoves are measured in basis points (bps), each of which equals one-hundredth of a percentage point: 2006   


June 29            Raised 25 bps  to  5.25 pct
May 10             Raised 25 bps  to  5.00 pct
March 28           Raised 25 bps  to  4.75 pct
Jan 31             Raised 25 bps  to  4.50 pct
2005
Dec 13             Raised 25 bps  to  4.25 pct
Nov 1              Raised 25 bps  to  4.00 pct
Sept 20            Raised 25 bps  to  3.75 pct
Aug 9              Raised 25 bps  to  3.50 pct
June 30            Raised 25 bps  to  3.25 pct
May 3              Raised 25 bps  to  3.00 pct
March 22           Raised 25 bps  to  2.75 pct
Feb 2              Raised 25 bps  to  2.50 pct
2004
Dec 14             Raised 25 bps  to  2.25 pct
Nov 10             Raised 25 bps  to  2.00 pct
Sept 21            Raised 25 bps  to  1.75 pct
Aug 10             Raised 25 bps  to  1.50 pct
June 30            Raised 25 bps  to  1.25 pct
2003
June 25            Cut 25 bps     to  1.00 pct
2002
Nov 6              Cut 50 bps     to  1.25 pct
2001
Dec 12             Cut 25 bps     to  1.75 pct
Nov 6              Cut 50 bps     to  2.00 pct
Oct 2              Cut 50 bps     to  2.50 pct
Sept 17            Cut 50 bps     to  3.00 pct
Aug 21             Cut 25 bps     to  3.50 pct
June 27            Cut 25 bps     to  3.75 pct
May 15             Cut 50 bps     to  4.00 pct
April 18           Cut 50 bps     to  4.50 pct
March 20           Cut 50 bps     to  5.00 pct
Jan 31             Cut 50 bps     to  5.50 pct
Jan 3              Cut 50 bps     to  6.00 pct
2000
May 16             Raised 50 bps  to  6.50 pct
March 21           Raised 25 bps  to  6.00 pct
Feb 2              Raised 25 bps  to  5.75 pct
1999
Nov 16             Raised 25 bps  to  5.50 pct
Aug 24             Raised 25 bps  to  5.25 pct
June 30            Raised 25 bps  to  5.00 pct
1998
Nov 17             Cut 25 bps     to  4.75 pct
Oct 15             Cut 25 bps     to  5.00 pct
Sept 29            Cut 25 bps     to  5.25 pct
1997
March 25           Raised 25 bps  to  5.50 pct
1996
Jan 31             Cut 25 bps     to  5.25 pct
1995
Dec 19             Cut 25 bps     to  5.50 pct
July 6             Cut 25 bps     to  5.75 pct
Feb 1              Raised 50 bps  to  6.00 pct
1994
Nov 15             Raised 75 bps  to  5.50 pct
Aug 16             Raised 50 bps  to  4.75 pct
May 17             Raised 50 bps  to  4.25 pct
April 18           Raised 25 bps  to  3.75 pct
March 22           Raised 25 bps  to  3.50 pct
Feb 4              Raised 25 bps  to  3.25 pct
1993
No rate changes
1992
Sept 4             Cut 25 bps     to  3.00 pct
July 2             Cut 50 bps     to  3.25 pct
April 9            Cut 25 bps     to  3.75 pct
1991
Dec 20             Cut 50 bps     to  4.00 pct
Dec 6              Cut 25 bps     to  4.50 pct
Nov 6              Cut 25 bps     to  4.75 pct
Oct 31             Cut 25 bps     to  5.00 pct
Sept 13            Cut 25 bps     to  5.25 pct
Aug 6              Cut 25 bps     to  5.50 pct
April 30           Cut 25 bps     to  5.75 pct
March 8            Cut 25 bps     to  6.00 pct
Feb 1              Cut 50 bps     to  6.25 pct
Jan 9              Cut 25 bps     to  6.75 pct
1990
Dec 18             Cut 25 bps     to  7.00 pct
Dec 7              Cut 25 bps     to  7.25 pct
Nov 13             Cut 25 bps     to  7.50 pct
Oct 29             Cut 25 bps     to  7.75 pct
July 13            Cut 25 bps     to  8.00 pct
  
   RFECONOMY-FED-CHRONOLOGY|LANGEN|Table|ABN|D|M|E|RBN|U|RNP|DNP   INibcs : Business/Consumer Services | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | e1202 : Interest Rates | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ntab : Table | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | niwe : IWE Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCMCE | CEN | BNK | FIN | INT | PLCY | FED | RAT | EMBG:PLCY | embargokeyE1R1:1   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument LBA0000020060629e26t001uc  



 HDRPT-UPDATE 3-Fed raises U.S. rates, softens inflation rhetoric      BYBy Tim Ahmann      WC746 words   PD30 June 2006   ET04:54   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006 Reuters Limited   
   LP(Recasts, adds analyst comments, updates market reactions, adds prime rate changes)   

WASHINGTON, June 29 (Reuters) - The Federal Reserve raised U.S. interest rates a 17th straight time on Thursday, but fired up financial markets by toning down its warnings about the possible need for further increases.   
   TDAs widely expected, the central bank's policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee voted unanimously to lift the benchmark federal funds rate target a quarter-percentage point to 5.25 percent, its highest since March 2001.   

In a statement announcing its action, the Fed said moderating growth should help ease price pressures, even though it held out the possibility it could extend a two-year credit tightening campaign.   

"Although the moderation in the growth of aggregate demand should help to limit inflation pressures over time, the committee judges that some inflation risks remain," it said.   

"The extent and timing of any additional firming that may be needed to address these risks will depend on the evolution of the outlook for both inflation and economic growth, as implied by incoming information," it added.   

U.S. stock and government bond prices rose and the dollar tumbled as financial markets saw the statement as suggesting chances of another boost to borrowing costs in August as lower than traders had wagered before the meeting.   

By late afternoon, the blue chip Dow Jones industrial average <.DJI> surged 217.24 points, or 1.98 percent, the biggest one day percentage gain in over a year.   

The probability of an August rate hike as reflected by trading in interest-rate futures markets fell to about 60 percent after the announcement from above 80 percent before.   

"The language strikes me as being a step back from the relentless hawkish talk the Fed has been engaged in on inflation," said Wan-Chong Kung, a portfolio manager at First American Funds in Minneapolis.   

The fed funds rate governs overnight lending between banks, but it can influence a wide range of borrowing costs.   

In the wake of the Fed's action, many banks raised the prime rate charged for loans to their best customers -- a baseline for credit cards and home loans -- to 8.25 percent.   

KEEPING OPTIONS OPEN   

The increase in the fed funds rate was the latest in a string of quarter-point moves dating to June 2004, when the central bank began moving credit costs up from a 1958-matching low of 1 percent.   

Economists had expected the Fed to extend the series after a number of troubling core inflation readings and tough remarks from officials. But analysts have been divided -- and remained divided -- over how much further the Fed might go.   

"They are definitely not closing the door on anything," said Kurt Karl, chief U.S. economist at Swiss Re in New York. "The economy is in solid shape by the inflation risks are still bigger than the growth risks."   

Some think the higher price of credit the central bank has already put in place will slow economic growth enough to wring inflation pressures out of the system, and the Fed did nod to the restraining influence of its prior actions.   

Others have argued overnight rates might need to be pushed up as high as 6 percent to ensure inflation does not gain a foothold.   

The core U.S. consumer price index, which strips out volatile food and energy prices, has risen a surprisingly steep 0.3 percent in each of the past three months, an acceleration Bernanke had called "unwelcome."   

Lofty energy prices and a historically low unemployment rate, which hit a 5-year low of 4.6 percent last month, have exacerbated the central bank's inflation concerns.   

U.S. Commerce Secretary Carlos Gutierrez told Reuters on Thursday the Fed had done a good job at keeping core inflation tamped down given the sharp acceleration in energy prices.   

"We're not going to second-guess the Federal Reserve," he said. "They've got the tools. They've got the data, the people and the skills."   

At the same time core inflation has picked up, employment growth has slowed and the long-hot U.S. housing market has started to come off the boil. While the economy shot ahead at a 5.6 percent annual rate in the first quarter, economists think it has already throttled back to a more comfortable pace.   
   RFECONOMY-FED (UPDATE 3)|LANGEN|GNN|DNP   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | gpol : Domestic Politics | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument LBA0000020060630e26u0005a  



 HDHK gets a boost as banks again ignore US rate rise     BYBy Susan Fenton and Donny Kwok     WC648 words   PD30 June 2006   ET11:52   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006 Reuters Limited  
   LPHONG KONG, June 30 (Reuters) - Major Hong Kong banks left interest rates unchanged on Friday, ignoring a U.S. rate rise for a second month running and providing a lift for the territory, at least in the short term.  

The local stock market, boosted by comments from the U.S. Federal Reserve indicating further rate rises may be limited, gained further ground in late trade after leading bank HSBC Holdings Plc. left its prime lending rate unchanged at 8 percent.  
   TDThe stock market ended the day up 2.5 percent, its biggest gain in six weeks.  

Hong Kong tends to track U.S. interest rate moves because of its currency peg to the U.S. dollar.  

The Hong Kong Monetary Authority, the territory's central bank, on Friday raised the base rate charged through its overnight discount window by 25 basis points to 6.75 percent. It followed a quarter point rise in the U.S. federal funds overnight bank lending rate on Thursday.  

EXPORTS A RISK  

Hong Kong banks however have more flexibility in tracking U.S. rates and flush market liquidity enabled them to forego the latest U.S. rate rise.  

HSBC subsidiary Hang Seng Bank Ltd left its prime lending rate unchanged at 8 percent and Bank of China (Hong Kong) Ltd and Bank of East Asia Ltd kept their prime rates at 8.25 percent. Other banks were set to follow.  

The rate outlook remains uncertain though and financial markets are likely to stay on edge in coming weeks, analysts said.  

Peter Wong, executive director of Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corp. Ltd., a unit of HSBC Holdings, warned that banks might have to raise rates by a quarter point before the next U.S. Federal Reserve meeting in August if liquidity eased.  

"Interbank rates are fairly stable ... so there is plenty of liquidity in the market and on that basis we did not increase the prime rate," Wong said. "However, we will consider increasing the rate if the interbank market rate moves upward, and even if it is prior to the next Fed meeting, we may increase the lending rate."  

HSBC's prime lending rate has risen to 8 percent from 5 percent in March 2005.  

But Hong Kong consumers appear to have become much less anxious about tightening monetary policy this year, and consumer spending has accelerated.  

Stronger wage growth and vibrant job creation has supported consumption along with hopes that rates are close to peaking, economists said.  

Ratings agency Fitch Ratings said on Friday it expected Hong Kong's economy to remain strong although growth would slow from the first quarter.  

"Hong Kong's gross domestic product growth is likely to exceed 6 percent this year, even with higher interest rates and a cooling of the property market, supported by lower unemployment and the buoyant short-term outlook for the mainland economy," James McCormack, head of Asia sovereign ratings at Fitch, told a conference.  

While consumer spending is expected to remain a driver of economic growth, the trade sector poses a risk.  

Exports had been expected to slow some time this year but in May unexpectedly declined, data this week showed. If that proves the start of a trend, forecasts that Hong Kong's economic growth will exceed 6 percent this year will be downgraded.  

For now, though, economists remain relatively confident that May data was a one-month blip and exports, which are mostly re-exports to and from China, will bounce back in the next few months.  

"It's premature to push the panic button," said Tim Condon, chief economist at ING Financial Markets. "U.S. import demand remains pretty strong and China's exports are still booming."  
   RFECONOMY-HONGKONG-RATES|LANGEN|ABN|M|E|RBN|D|Z|RNP|DNP   COhksbc : HSBC Holdings PLC   INi814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe1118 : Trade Figures | e1202 : Interest Rates | gdip : International Relations | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e51 : Trade/External Payments | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REhkong : Hong Kong | usa : United States | asiaz : Asia | china : China | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America   IPCTCF | MCE | INT | TRD | DIP   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument LBA0000020060630e26u000r8  



 HDUS students rush to lock student loan rates     BYBy Kelly Evans     WC613 words   PD30 June 2006   ET23:48   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006 Reuters Limited  
   LPWASHINGTON, June 29 (Reuters) - U.S. students are rushing to lock in favorable interest rates on their college loans before a nearly 2.0 percentage point rise on July 1.  

The rate rise affects college undergraduates who hold federal "Stafford" loans, the most affordable type of student loan, as well as college graduates who still carry debt they racked up in college, and parents who took out "Parent PLUS" loans.  
   TDInterest rates on existing Stafford and PLUS loans readjust annually on July 1 at a premium over the 91-day Treasury bill rate, which has risen nearly 2.0 percentage points over the past year thanks to the Federal Reserve's current monetary policy tightening cycle.  

Variable-rate federal loans will no longer be available after July 1, when the new law comes into effect. Instead, new loans will carry fixed interest rates of 6.8 percent for Stafford loans and 8.5 percent for PLUS loans.  

"Driving the fixed-rate decision was the fact that rates did drop so dramatically (in recent years)," said Joe Cronin, President and CEO of StaffordLoan.com. The Stafford loan rate bottomed out at 2.77 percent for the 2004-2005 school year.  

"The government in some cases had to subsidize the lenders when the rates dropped below certain minimums," he said. "It got really expensive to maintain."  

Of the 19 million U.S. undergraduates, about 33 percent received some type of federal assistance in the 2003-2004 school year, up from 19.1 percent who had federal loans in 1992-1993, according to the National Center for Education Statistics.  

One reason for the jump in federal assistance may be the soaring pricetag of a college education. The average cost of tuition, room and board at four-year public and private schools has more than doubled since 1990, according a study released this week by the U.S. Census Bureau. The average student now graduates with about $19,000 in federal student loan debt.  

"Average loan balances have increased significantly over the past five years," said Mark Kantrowitz, publisher of FinAid.org. He attributed that increase to the historically low U.S. interest rates, which made variable Stafford loans the most affordable type of federal loan.  

"Prior to September 11, the interest rate on student loans had never been below 6 percent," he said. "Now we're back around the historical average and I don't expect us to ever get that low again."  

Kantrowitz and many others have seen students flock to their websites recently in an effort to assess the impact of the July 1 rate hikes.  

"Traffic is up 200-300 percent from a month ago and it's gone up 10 to 20 percent each day over the last week," said Joe Cronin. "There are some tired people here."  

"The rate change is really going to affect for the most part people who are out of school," he said, since those students who consolidated their loans after graduating are not eligible to consolidate again.  

"Stafford loans are done per semester," explained Kevin Brandt, a software engineer who carries around $15,500 in loans seven years after graduating from college. "They're a bunch of little loans and you wrap them up when you graduate."  

Because Brandt consolidated his loans upon graduation, he cannot take advantage of locking in lower interest rates before they rise on July 1.  

"If you've already consolidated you're stuck," he said. "You're pretty much at the mercy of the Federal Reserve."  
   RFECONOMY-STUDENTS|LANGEN|ABN|E|U|G|RBN|RNP|DNP|PGE   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | gedu : Education | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCINT | MCE | EDU   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument LBA0000020060630e26u0022u  



 HDUPDATE 3-Fed raises U.S. rates, softens inflation rhetoric     BYBy Tim Ahmann     WC740 words   PD29 June 2006   ET09:05   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006 Reuters Limited  
   LP (Recasts, adds analyst comments, updates market reactions, adds prime rate changes)  
   TD WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The Federal Reserve raised U.S. interest rates a 17th straight time Thursday, but fired up financial markets by toning down its warnings about the possible need for further increases.  

 As widely expected, the central bank's policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee voted unanimously to lift the benchmark federal funds rate target a quarter-percentage point to 5.25 percent, its highest since March 2001.  

 In a statement announcing its action, the Fed said moderating growth should help ease price pressures, even though it held out the possibility it could extend a two-year credit tightening campaign.  

 "Although the moderation in the growth of aggregate demand should help to limit inflation pressures over time, the committee judges that some inflation risks remain," it said.  

 "The extent and timing of any additional firming that may be needed to address these risks will depend on the evolution of the outlook for both inflation and economic growth, as implied by incoming information," it added.  

 U.S. stock and government bond prices rose and the dollar tumbled as financial markets saw the statement as suggesting chances of another boost to borrowing costs in August as lower than traders had wagered before the meeting.  

 By late afternoon, the blue chip Dow Jones industrial average surged 217.24 points, or 1.98 percent, the biggest one day percentage gain in over a year.  

 The probability of an August rate hike as reflected by trading in interest-rate futures markets fell to about 60 percent after the announcement from above 80 percent before.  

 "The language strikes me as being a step back from the relentless hawkish talk the Fed has been engaged in on inflation," said Wan-Chong Kung, a portfolio manager at First American Funds in Minneapolis.  

 The fed funds rate governs overnight lending between banks, but it can influence a wide range of borrowing costs.  

 In the wake of the Fed's action, many banks raised the prime rate charged for loans to their best customers -- a baseline for credit cards and home loans -- to 8.25 percent.  

 KEEPING OPTIONS OPEN  

 The increase in the fed funds rate was the latest in a string of quarter-point moves dating to June 2004, when the central bank began moving credit costs up from a 1958-matching low of 1 percent.  

 Economists had expected the Fed to extend the series after a number of troubling core inflation readings and tough remarks from officials. But analysts have been divided -- and remained divided -- over how much further the Fed might go.  

 "They are definitely not closing the door on anything," said Kurt Karl, chief U.S. economist at Swiss Re in New York. "The economy is in solid shape by the inflation risks are still bigger than the growth risks."  

 Some think the higher price of credit the central bank has already put in place will slow economic growth enough to wring inflation pressures out of the system, and the Fed did nod to the restraining influence of its prior actions.  

 Others have argued overnight rates might need to be pushed up as high as 6 percent to ensure inflation does not gain a foothold.  

 The core U.S. consumer price index, which strips out volatile food and energy prices, has risen a surprisingly steep 0.3 percent in each of the past three months, an acceleration Bernanke had called "unwelcome."  

 Lofty energy prices and a historically low unemployment rate, which hit a 5-year low of 4.6 percent last month, have exacerbated the central bank's inflation concerns.  

 U.S. Commerce Secretary Carlos Gutierrez told Reuters Thursday the Fed had done a good job at keeping core inflation tamped down given the sharp acceleration in energy prices.  

 "We're not going to second-guess the Federal Reserve," he said. "They've got the tools. They've got the data, the people and the skills."  

 At the same time core inflation has picked up, employment growth has slowed and the long-hot U.S. housing market has started to come off the boil. While the economy shot ahead at a 5.6 percent annual rate in the first quarter, economists think it has already throttled back to a more comfortable pace.  
   RFECONOMY-FED (UPDATE 3)|LANGEN|RNA|FUN   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | e1202 : Interest Rates | gvexe : Executive Branch | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mcpdbt : Corporate Debt/Bond Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCWASH | FED | CEN | MCE | PLCY | STIR | INT | DBT | MUNI | GVD | ECI   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument LBA0000020060629e26t000f0  



 HDU.S. stock futures rise as Fed rate decision looms     WC413 words   PD29 June 2006   ET12:13   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006 Reuters Limited  
   LPLONDON, June 29 (Reuters) - U.S. stock futures gained on Thursday, indicating an opening rise for Wall Street, with all eyes on the Federal Reserve's interest rate decision and statement later in the New York session.  

By 0955 GMT, U.S. stock futures were showing gains of around 0.2 percent for the three main indexes <SPc1> <DJc1> <NDc1>, lifted by a 1 percent rise in European shares <.FTEU3> and strength in Japanese stocks.  
   TDU.S. stocks rose on Wednesday thanks to gains in the energy sector. The same could be true later with crude continuing to firm above $72 a barrel after weekly inventory data showed crude and gasoline supplies fell more than expected last week.  

The Federal Reserve is widely expected to lift its benchmark fed funds rate by a quarter-percentage point to 5.25 percent at 1815 GMT, a 17th rise in two years with more to come.  

The wording of the Fed's statement has kept investors uncertain amid lingering concerns that the central bank's monetary tightening will slow economic growth and hurt corporate profits.  

"We think the rise we are going get this evening will be the top of the cycle and that the Fed is about to pause. As or when the Fed indicates it is at the peak of a cycle we think the equity market will go up," said Jim Wood Smith at Christows Stockbroker.  

Shares of Walt Disney Co. will be in focus after ticking up after hours on Wednesday after saying it has chosen former Procter & Gamble Chairman and Chief Executive John Pepper to serve as nonexecutive chairman.  

Shares in memory chip maker Micron Technology and Red Hat Inc. look set to fall after slipping after hours following quarterly results.  

Firms due to report earnings later include CA Inc , Constellation Brands Inc , General Mills and Monsanto Co .  

The Dow Jones industrial average <.DJI> gained 48.82 points, or 0.45 percent, to finish at 10,973.56 on Wednesday.  

The Standard & Poor's 500 Index <.SPX> added 6.80 points, or 0.55 percent, to end at 1,246. The Nasdaq Composite Index <.IXIC> advanced 11.59 points, or 0.55 percent, to close at 2,111.84.  

(additional reporting by Rebekah Curtis)  
   RFMARKETS-STOCKS-US-EUROPE|LANGEN|UKI|ABN|E|RBN|U|D|NAT|M|G|C|GRO|MTL|SOF|O|OIL|RNP|DNP   INi1 : Energy | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services   NSgcat : Political/General News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mcpdbt : Corporate Debt/Bond Markets | ntop : Dow Jones/Reuters Top Wire News | e1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REeurz : Europe | uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | weurz : Western Europe | eecz : European Union Countries | namz : North America   IPCSTX | NEWS | FIN | MUNI | DBT | ENR | .N | .L/US   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument LBA0000020060629e26t000pz  



 HDUS TREASURY OUTLOOK-Market on tenterhooks about Fed statement     BYBy John Parry     WC729 words   PD28 June 2006   ET19:41   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006 Reuters Limited  
   LPNEW YORK, June 28 (Reuters) - The U.S. Treasury bond market has largely factored in an interest-rate increase from the Federal Reserve on Thursday, but even minor tweaks in the language in the Fed's statement regarding inflation and economic growth could buffet bonds.  

Although U.S. interest-rate futures signal a high probability of a 25-basis-point hike on Thursday, taking the federal funds target rate up to 5.25 percent, much uncertainty surrounds what the Fed's policy-makers will say in the accompanying statement.  
   TDFutures indicate a strong chance for a subsequent rate increase in August, which is a bearish prospect for Treasuries. But the Fed could well pause to assess incoming economic data on inflation and the housing market, which is starting to cool.  

Bond traders will comb the statement for clues on which economic trends the central bank will consider most closely in the weeks ahead.  

The Federal Open Market Committee could say something like some further policy firming may yet be needed "over time," which would be consistent with the Fed either pausing its tightening in August, or raising rates again then, said Gary Bigg, associate economist with Bank of America in New York.  

If such hints in the statement did not dissuade most bond investors from expecting the Fed to raise rates in August, then thinning volume before the Independence Day holiday on July 4 in the United States could create volatile trading conditions.  

As a result, "I don't think the immediate bond market reaction will be coming from fundamentals," Bigg said.  

"Probably the immediate reaction will be for bonds to sell off because markets are leaning in the direction of an August rate hike," he added.  

WEIGHING WORDS ON INFLATION AND GROWTH  

The Fed has already ratcheted rates up 4 percentage points to 5 percent over the past two years, but inflation worries have prompted many on Wall Street to predict that rate increases will continue.  

So the Fed statement's language on inflation is a potential touchstone for the bond market on Thursday.  

However, given expectations for an August rate hike, "even if the Fed does become a lot more explicit in their views on inflation, I am not sure it will change the market very much," said Joseph DiCenso, fixed-income strategist with Lehman Brothers in New York.  

Besides, he expects the Fed to acknowledge that there are some signs of a pickup in core inflation. But he noted that the central bank may counterbalance that by noting that breakeven spreads of Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, or TIPS -- an alternative inflation gauge -- indicate inflation is more contained.  

The Fed's statement might introduce the idea that economic growth rather than being "likely to" moderate to a more sustainable pace, as in the May policy-setting meeting's statement, now "appears to be" doing so, DiCenso said.  

That allusion to an already softening economy probably would support bond prices.  

In the aftermath of Thursday's Fed statement, bonds might trade in recent ranges.  

DEEPER YIELD-CURVE INVERSION AHEAD?  

But as inflation data influence bond traders' expectations for Fed policy actions in the months ahead, the yield of the two-year Treasury note<US2YT=RR> -- sensitive to Fed rate-hike expectations -- may then rise above 5.50 percent.  

The two-year note's yield is now around 5.27 percent.  

The benchmark 10-year Treasury note's<US10YT=RR> yield, which climbed to four-year highs around 5.25 percent earlier this week, may peak around 5.30 percent, Lehman expects, as investors start to price in a slowing U.S. economy later this year.  

The 10-year note's yield is now around 5.23 percent.  

Over the medium term, that would deepen the inversion of the yield curve, in which two-year Treasury yields exceed 10-year yields.  

Market talk has even surfaced of a more aggressive rate increase of 50 basis points, or half-percentage point, on Thursday, though most investors expect the Fed would hesitate to raise rates more steeply than expected, for fear of roiling markets. In that unlikely event, Treasury debt prices would fall sharply while yields would jump. Bond yields and prices move inversely.  
   RFMARKETS-BONDS-OUTLOOK|LANGEN|ABN|D|M|E|RBN|U|MNI|AUF   NSe1101 : Economic Growth | e1122 : Mortgage Applications/Refinancing | e1202 : Interest Rates | gvtre : Treasury Department | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m131 : Money Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mcpdbt : Corporate Debt/Bond Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | gvexe : Executive Branch | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCMMT | DBT | GVD | AGN | MTG | STIR | MCE | US/O | US/ | EMBG:DBT | embargokeyE1E1   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument LBA0000020060701e26s000di  



 HDUS SWAPS-Slow trading ahead of Fed rate decision     WC374 words   PD28 June 2006   ET20:52   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006 Reuters Limited  
   LPNEW YORK, June 28 (Reuters) - The U.S. interest rate swap market moved little in slow trading on Wednesday, as players waited for the Federal Reserve's interest rate decision at the conclusion of its two-day policy meeting on Thursday.  

Swap spreads over comparable Treasuries were marginally mixed from late Tuesday.  
   TDShort-dated swaps were unchanged, a day after the Treasury Department auctioned $22 billion in two-year notes. Longer swap spreads edged out with a yield rise among their Treasury counterparts after mixed reception to a $14 billion sale of new five-year U.S. government debt.  

Two-year swap yields rose 2 basis points from late Tuesday to 5.73 percent, and 10-year swap yields climbed 2 basis points to 5.82 percent.  

Bond players have been bracing for a quarter percentage point rate increase by the Fed on Thursday, which will raise key short-term U.S. rates to 5.25 percent.  

More importantly, they will seek clues in the Fed's post-meeting statement to determine whether the Fed is prepared to increase rates at its August meeting with the goal to contain growing price pressures, analysts said.  

"Clearly, the market is anxious about the Fed and its anxiety about inflation," said Mustafa Chowdhury, head of U.S. rates research at Deutsche Bank Securities in New York.  

Heightened worries over rising global rates have widened U.S. swap spreads in May.  

Investors had shed long-dated swap positions to counter extended duration on their mortgage holdings as a result of rising yields, according to traders.  

"There has been some mortgage-rated selling last week, which helped the 10-year spread widening. But duration extension will play a smaller role than it used to in the past," Chowdhury said.  

Moreover, unwinding of high-risk trades in the commodity and emerging debt markets has been a key factor in driving swap spreads wider, analysts said.  

After the Fed's widely expected rate increase, swap spreads could retrace toward to low-50s basis point area from the current high-50s basis point area, according to Chowdhury.  
   RFMARKETS-SWAPS|LANGEN|Table|ABN|E|RBN|D|M|MNI|U|RNP|DNP   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | m131 : Money Markets | m15 : Derivative Securities | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mcpdbt : Corporate Debt/Bond Markets | ntab : Table | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | niwe : IWE Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCINT | MCE | DBT | DRV | STIR | MMT | MUNI | SWP/ | EMBG:DBT | EMBG:SWP/ | embargokeyE2   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument LBA0000020060701e26s000en  



 HDSE Asia Stocks-Markets fall on US rate fears ahead of Fed meet     BYBy Koh Gui Qing     WC855 words   PD28 June 2006   ET08:01   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006 Reuters Limited  
   LPSINGAPORE, June 28 (Reuters) - Most Southeast Asian stocks dropped on Wednesday as risk-averse investors worried about how aggressive the Federal Reserve will be in raising interest rates, with banks such as DBS Group the biggest drag in Singapore.  

Singapore's Straits Times Index <.STI> was down 0.29 percent, Philippine stocks <.PSI> had lost 0.72 percent and Malaysian shares <.KLSE> were off 0.09 percent.  
   TDIndonesian shares <.JKSE> shed 1.06 percent, while stocks in Thailand <.SETI> bucked regional weakness and had gained 1.02 percent by 0940 GMT.  

The Fed is widely expected to lift its benchmark lending rate by a quarter percentage point to 5.25 percent on Thursday after a a two-day meeting, although some in the market have speculated the increase could be as much as half a point.  

Regional markets have dropped in the last six weeks as investors worried that higher U.S. interest rates would slow the U.S. economy -- the world's largest -- and dampen demand for Asian exports.  

"If they say inflation is rising and that interest rate hikes are not ending, then markets will take a tumble again," said Phillip Securities Managing Director Loh Hoon Sun.  

The MSCI index for the biggest Asian firms outside Japan <.MSCIAPJ> has lost about 15 percent since hitting a record high of 370.38 on May 8.  

Fund managers said given expectations of rising borrowing   


costs around the world -- central banks in Europe and Japan are
expected to raise interest rates -- investors are cutting their
  

exposure in equity markets and opting to hold cash instead.  

"Investors who have overweighted equities, globally or in Asia, have reduced their exposure somewhat," said APS Asset Management founder and chief investment officer Wong Kok Hoi, adding that global emerging markets had been the worst hit.  

"They now no longer believe we are in a multi-year bull market," he said.  

Still, stocks supported by strong company fundamentals, especially those in China, are attractive investments as long as the firms practice good corporate governance, Wong said.  

"The easy money has been made in Asian equities. That's behind us," said Wong. "If I were to bet my money today, I would bet on China equities."  

Losses in Singapore were led by rate-sensitive bank and property stocks.  

DBS , Southeast Asia's largest lender, fell 1.7 percent. United Overseas Bank , Singapore's second-largest bank, was down 0.7 percent, while Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp. was off 0.8 percent.  

CapitaLand, Southeast Asia's largest property developer, fell 1.8 percent to close at a one-week low.  

Traders said jittery investor sentiment in choppy market conditions also took a toll on defensive stocks such as Neptune Orient Lines Ltd. (NOL) , which lost 1.2 percent.  

"No one is going to be gung-ho before the FOMC meeting," a trader with a regional broker said, referring to the Fed's interest rate meeting.  

NOL -- down some 29 percent in the year to date -- was also dragged down by investor concerns that the firm would be hurt by cyclical weakness in the shipping sector, traders said.  

NOL has a dividend yield of 5.03 percent in 2006, higher than the Straits Times Index's 3.54 percent.  

However, ComfortDelGro , the world's second-largest land transport firm by fleet size, bucked regional weakness and rose as much as 2.1 percent on speculation that taxi operators in Singapore would soon raise fares because of rising diesel prices. The stock ended the day unchanged.  

"Talk that cabs here may raise fares is creating a bit of buzz in ComfortDelGro," a local brokerage dealer said.  

A spokeswoman for ComfortDelGro -- whose 40,000 vehicles make it second only to U.S. Greyhound bus line owner Laidlaw International -- declined to comment.  

Gains in Thailand were led by energy firms after oil prices edged above $72 a barrel on Wednesday on concerns over disruptions to gasoline supply during peak summer demand in the world's top consumer the United States.  

PTT PCL , Thailand's top energy firm, was up 0.9 percent, while PTT Exploration and Production rose 2.9 percent.  

Advanced Info Service , Thailand's top mobile firm, was up 1.8 percent.  

Blue chip stocks led losses in the Philippines as the country's currency hit a six-month low against the dollar on Wednesday.  

Traders said the Philippine peso fell on concern about a possible narrowing yield gap between the peso and the dollar, with the Philippine central bank not expected to raise rates when it reviews policy on Thursday.  

Bellwether Philippine Long Distance Telephone Co. , the country's largest telecoms firm, was off 1.4 percent, while the Philippines' second largest lender, Bank of the Philippine Islands , fell 2.1 percent. [20060628 060127 GMT]  

. [20060628 100415 GMT]  
   RFMARKETS-SOUTHEASTASIA-STOCKS (UPDATE 1)|LANGEN|Table|ABN|E|RBN|SI|PHD|IF|RNP|DNP|PTD|PMF|MARKETS-SOUTHEASTASIA-STOCKS (UPDATE 1) =2|LANGEN|Table|ABN|E|RBN|SI|PHD|IF|RNP|DNP|PTD|PMF|chained   INibcs : Business/Consumer Services | ibnk : Banking/Credit | icre : Construction/Real Estate   NSgcat : Political/General News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ntab : Table | ntop : Dow Jones/Reuters Top Wire News | e1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | niwe : IWE Filter   REdevgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | indon : Indonesia | malay : Malaysia | phlns : Philippines | singp : Singapore | thail : Thailand | usa : United States | asiaz : Asia | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | namz : North America | seasiaz : Southeast Asia   IPCBNK | FIN | REA | STX | NEWS | .SO | .BK | .JK | .PS | .KL | .SI   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument LBA0000020060628e26s0009l  



 HDU.S. Fed set to raise rates, keep options open     BYBy Tim Ahmann     WC600 words   PD29 June 2006   ET06:01   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006 Reuters Limited  
   LPWASHINGTON, June 29 (Reuters) - The Federal Reserve looks set to lift U.S. interest rates on Thursday for a 17th straight time and will likely hold the door open to pushing them even higher in coming months to ward off inflation.  

Most analysts expect the Fed to raise the overnight federal funds rate a quarter-percentage point to 5.25 percent, its highest level since March 2001, although a few have speculated about the potential for a half-point move.  
   TDFaced with signs underlying inflation is quickening even as economic growth slows and concerns about their inflation-fighting resolve, officials on the Fed's rate-setting Federal Open Market Committee have made clear their first priority is price stability.  

"The committee will be vigilant to ensure that the recent pattern of elevated monthly core inflation readings is not sustained," Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke vowed in June 5 comments that helped cement views that rates were heading higher.  

But how much higher is still an open question and analysts will parse the interest-rate announcement the Fed will release after its two-day meeting with particular care for clues.  

"We believe the new directive will be at least as hawkish as the last directive," economists at Lehman Brothers wrote in a preview of the Fed's decision, which is expected to be announced around 2:15 p.m. (1815 GMT).  

After its last meeting on May 10, the Fed said "some further policy firming may yet be needed to address inflation risks." Fed watchers expect that phrase to be repeated, along with accompanying language on the importance of incoming data to future decisions.  

Interest-rate futures markets see a more than 80 percent chance the Fed bumps credit costs up by another quarter-point at its next meeting in August, and any change in how the Fed talks about its policy path could shift the odds.  

Robert McGee, chief economist at U.S. Trust Co. in New York, said he thinks Thursday's widely anticipated rate hike will prove the last in the now two-year tightening cycle.  

"I think they've already done enough to assure that the economy slows down," McGee said. "I think by the end of the year or early next year they'll be backpedaling."  

McGee, however, does not expect the Fed to signal a possible rate-cycle pause. He said any shift in language is likely to await Bernanke's testimony before Congress on monetary policy slated for July 19 and 20.  

Bernanke told Congress in late April the Fed might take a break from its rate-raising campaign at some point to assess the outlook, which sparked concerns in financial markets that the central bank was soft on inflation.  

Since then, Fed rhetoric has largely emphasized the risk of higher prices and markets have shown more faith that the central bank will keep inflation under wraps.  

While policy-makers are expected to nod to signs of slower U.S. economic growth, they are seen steering clear of anything that could undercut their efforts to buttress their inflation-fighting credibility.  

"Our guess is that the statement will appear to give more weight to the pick-up in core inflation, creating an initial presumption of another rate hike in August if current trends persist," wrote Lou Crandall of Wrightson ICAP in New York.  
   RFECONOMY-FED|LANGEN|ABN|C|D|E|M|O|U|MTL|GRO|SOF|OIL|G|RBN|AFA|CSA|LBY|RWSA|RWS|REULB|GNS|ABX|BNX|RNP|PGE   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | e1202 : Interest Rates | gvexe : Executive Branch | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mcpdbt : Corporate Debt/Bond Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCWASH | FED | CEN | MCE | PLCY | STIR | INT | DBT | MUNI | GVD | EMBG:DBT | EMBG:PLCY | embargokeyE1R1:1   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument LBA0000020060629e26t0006c  



 HDU.S. stocks surge as Fed stands by rate policy; Dow soars 217.24     BYBy CHRISTOPHER WANG     CRAP Business Writer   WC902 words   PD29 June 2006   ET22:36   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.  
   LPNEW YORK (AP) - A relief rally carried Wall Street sharply higher Thursday after the Federal Reserve appeared to soften its stance on future interest rate hikes, saying it would consider both the economy's health and inflation as it formulates its policy. The Dow Jones industrial average rose more than 215 points.  

While investors had been expecting the quarter-point increase in short-term lending rates, they were reassured by the central bank's accompanying statement, in which the Fed noted economic growth has moderated but that "some inflation risks remain." The Fed has tended to focus on inflation in past statements, but this time said it would look at the economy's growth rate as well as the impact of inflation in deciding whether to raise rates in the future.  
   TD"It's the first time the Fed has connected the weaker growth with the outlook for inflation," said Markus Schomer, economist for AIG's Global Investment Group. "That's very positive for the outlook going forward."  

That language consoled a market worried that Chairman Ben Bernanke might raise rates so high in his fight against inflation that the economy would suffer. Thursday's hike to 5.25 percent was a foregone conclusion on Wall Street, and many traders are expecting another quarter-point raise when the Fed's Open Market Committee meets in August.  

The Dow surged 217.24, or 1.98 percent, to 11,190.80. The Dow was up about 80 points before the Fed's announcement.  

Broader stock indicators also posted steep gains. The Standard & Poor's 500 index climbed 26.87, or 2.16 percent, to 1,272.87, and the Nasdaq composite index jumped 62.54, or 2.96 percent, to 2,174.38.  

Advancing issues topped decliners by more than 5 to 1 on the New York Stock Exchange, where volume of 1.39 billion shares led the 1.09 billion shares changing hands at the same point Wednesday.  

Bonds rose further on the Fed's statement, with the yield on the 10-year Treasury note tapering to 5.2 percent from 5.25 percent late Wednesday. The 2-year yield dropped to 5.2 percent, a signal of heightened confidence in holding long-term debt.  

Stocks have endured weeks of wildly erratic trading while the interest rate outlook remained cloudy, particularly after Bernanke earlier this month acknowledged that high energy prices could propel inflation. Investors, however, seemed to grow settled with the fact that the Fed would boost rates Thursday and bid stocks higher ahead of the policy decision.  

Schomer said the key change to the Fed's statement was a shift in wording about future rate increases. The central bank previously cautioned that further tightening could be required to contain inflation; in its latest opinion, the Fed simply said "any additional (policy) firming that may be needed" will depend on economic data.  

"That suggested the door is open for more increases," Schomer said. However, "I think the overall tone sounds a little less hawkish."  

But Jack Ablin, chief investment officer at Harris Private Bank, said the statement was inconsistent with the tough talk on inflation used by a number of Fed officials in recent speeches. Although investors may be relieved that the Fed has "taken the teeth out of the statement," the risk of stagflation -- rising inflation in a stalled economy -- is still out there, he said.  

"This is an initial reaction," Ablin said. "The true test will be seen over the coming months as we see some of this trying data."  

The Fed's announcement enabled Wall Street to look past a steep jump in oil prices after a report showed shrinking U.S. gasoline reserves amid the start of the busy summer driving season. A barrel of light crude leaped $1.33 to $73.52 on the New York Mercantile Exchange.  

Elsewhere, the U.S. dollar retreated against the Japanese yen. Gold prices gained to about $590 per ounce.  

Government reports issued hours before the Fed meeting pointed to an economy that isn't overheating. The Commerce Department raised first-quarter gross domestic product growth to a 5.6 percent annual rate but cut the GDP's inflation measure to 3.1 percent, feeding optimism that price increases may be under control.  

A slight rise in jobless claims also bolstered hopes that a gradual weakening of the job market will be mirrored by the economy. First-time unemployment applications rose 4,000 to 313,000 last week, the Labor Department said.  

In corporate news, cereal and snack-food maker General Mills Inc. posted a 52 percent drop in quarterly profit -- matching Wall Street estimates -- after the sale some of its businesses inflated year-ago results. General Mills rose 15 cents to $51.61.  

Ford Motor Co. added to the auto industry's woes after The Wall Street Journal quoted Chairman and Chief Executive Bill Ford as saying the automaker was facing worse-than-expected sales declines amid high gasoline prices. Ford slipped 8 cents to $6.28.  

Merrill Lynch upgraded Dow component McDonald's Corp. to "buy," citing forecasts for improved sales and margins. McDonald's gained $1.59 to $33.56.  

The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies rose 26.28, or 3.82 percent, to 714.32.  
   RF5   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPCtagpf1wcat | sel----- | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | NA FIN MKT US Closing Stocks | D8II3JSO0   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020060629e26t0030i  



 HDStocks surge as Fed stands by rate policy     BYBy CHRISTOPHER WANG     CRAP Business Writer   WC1,006 words   PD30 June 2006   ET01:10   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.  
   LPNEW YORK (AP) - A relief rally carried Wall Street sharply higher Thursday after the Federal Reserve appeared to soften its stance on future interest rate hikes, saying it would consider both the economy's health and inflation as it formulates its policy. The Dow Jones industrial average rose more than 215 points, its biggest one-day point gain in more than three years.  

While investors had been expecting the quarter-point increase in short-term lending rates, they were reassured by the central bank's accompanying statement, in which the Fed noted economic growth has moderated but that "some inflation risks remain." The Fed has tended to focus on inflation in past statements, but this time said it would look at the economy's growth rate as well as the impact of inflation in deciding whether to raise rates in the future.  
   TD"It's the first time the Fed has connected the weaker growth with the outlook for inflation," said Markus Schomer, economist for AIG's Global Investment Group. "That's very positive for the outlook going forward."  

That language consoled a market worried that Chairman Ben Bernanke might raise rates so high in his fight against inflation that the economy would suffer. Thursday's hike to 5.25 percent was a foregone conclusion on Wall Street, and many traders are expecting another quarter-point raise when the Fed's Open Market Committee meets in August.  

The Dow surged 217.24, or 1.98 percent, to 11,190.80, its biggest single-day jump since March 21, 2003, when it added 235.37 points. The Dow was up about 80 points before the Fed's announcement.  

Broader stock indicators also saw their best sessions in years. The Standard & Poor's 500 index climbed 26.87, or 2.16 percent, to 1,272.87, its largest gain since rising 29.52 on March 17, 2003; the Nasdaq composite index jumped 62.54, or 2.96 percent, to 2,174.38, behind a 73.13-point advance on July 27, 2002.  

Advancing issues topped decliners by more than 5 to 1 on the New York Stock Exchange, where consolidated volume of 2.85 billion shares led the 2.24 billion shares that changed hands Wednesday.  

Bonds rose further on the Fed's statement, with the yield on the 10-year Treasury note tapering to 5.2 percent from 5.25 percent late Wednesday. The 2-year yield dropped to 5.2 percent, a signal of heightened confidence in holding long-term debt.  

Stocks have endured weeks of wildly erratic trading while the interest rate outlook remained cloudy, particularly after Bernanke earlier this month acknowledged that high energy prices could propel inflation. Investors, however, seemed to grow settled with the fact that the Fed would boost rates Thursday and bid stocks higher ahead of the policy decision.  

Schomer said the key change to the Fed's statement was a shift in wording about future rate increases. The central bank previously cautioned that further tightening could be required to contain inflation; in its latest opinion, the Fed simply said "any additional (policy) firming that may be needed" will depend on economic data.  

"That suggested the door is open for more increases," Schomer said. However, "I think the overall tone sounds a little less hawkish."  

But Jack Ablin, chief investment officer at Harris Private Bank, said the statement was inconsistent with the tough talk on inflation used by a number of Fed officials in recent speeches. Although investors may be relieved that the Fed has "taken the teeth out of the statement," the risk of stagflation -- rising inflation in a stalled economy -- is still out there, he said.  

"This is an initial reaction," Ablin said. "The true test will be seen over the coming months as we see some of this trying data."  

The Fed's announcement enabled Wall Street to look past a steep jump in oil prices after a report showed shrinking U.S. gasoline reserves amid the start of the busy summer driving season. A barrel of light crude leaped $1.33 to $73.52 on the New York Mercantile Exchange.  

Elsewhere, the U.S. dollar retreated against the Japanese yen. Gold prices gained to about $590 per ounce.  

Government reports issued hours before the Fed meeting pointed to an economy that isn't overheating. The Commerce Department raised first-quarter gross domestic product growth to a 5.6 percent annual rate but cut the GDP's inflation measure to 3.1 percent, feeding optimism that price increases may be under control.  

A slight rise in jobless claims also bolstered hopes that a gradual weakening of the job market will be mirrored by the economy. First-time unemployment applications rose 4,000 to 313,000 last week, the Labor Department said.  

In corporate news, cereal and snack-food maker General Mills Inc. posted a 52 percent drop in quarterly profit -- matching Wall Street estimates -- after the sale some of its businesses inflated year-ago results. General Mills rose 15 cents to $51.61.  

Ford Motor Co. added to the auto industry's woes after The Wall Street Journal quoted Chairman and Chief Executive Bill Ford as saying the automaker was facing worse-than-expected sales declines amid high gasoline prices. Ford slipped 8 cents to $6.28.  

Merrill Lynch upgraded Dow component McDonald's Corp. to "buy," citing forecasts for improved sales and margins. McDonald's gained $1.59 to $33.56.  

The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies rose 26.28, or 3.82 percent, to 714.32.  

In overseas trading well before the Fed's announcement, Japan's Nikkei stock average surged 1.58 percent. Britain's FTSE 100 climbed 1.99 percent, Germany's DAX index added 2.29 percent and France's CAC-40 was higher by 2.23 percent.  

------  

On the Net:  

New York Stock Exchange:  http://www.nyse.com 

Nasdaq Stock Market:  http://www.nasdaq.com 
   RF7   NSm11 : Equity Markets | e1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagdsa | sel----- | cata   IPDAP National News | Domestic US | Wall Street Close | D8II5SB00   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020060629e26t003aq  



 HDU.S. stocks surge as Fed stands by rate policy     BYBy CHRISTOPHER WANG     CRAP Business Writer   WC452 words   PD29 June 2006   ET21:34   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.  
   LPNEW YORK (AP) - A relief rally carried Wall Street sharply Thursday after the Federal Reserve said it would consider the health of the overall economy as well as the direction of inflation as it formulates its interest rate policy. The Dow Jones industrial average soared more than 100 points on the Fed news.  

Investors were reassured by the Fed's statement accompanying an expected quarter-point hike in short-term lending rates. In it, the Fed noted that economic growth has moderated but that "some inflation risks remain." But the central bank, which has tended to focus on inflation in past statements, said it would look at both the economy's growth rate and the impact of inflation in deciding whether to raise rates in the future.  
   TDThat language consoled a market worried that Chairman Ben Bernanke might raise rates so high in his fight against inflation that the economy would suffer. Thursday's rate hike to 5.25 percent was a foregone conclusion on Wall Street, and many traders are expecting another quarter-point increase when the Fed's Open Market Committee next meets in August.  

Stocks have endured weeks of wildly erratic trading while the interest rate outlook remained cloudy, particularly after Bernanke warned earlier this month that the Fed remained concerned that high energy prices could accelerate inflation.  

In late afternoon trading, the Dow was up 185.62, or 1.69 percent, at 11,159.18. The Dow was up about 80 points before the Fed's announcement.  

Broader stock indicators were also sharply higher. The Standard & Poor's 500 index was up 22.88, or 1.84 percent, at 1,268.88, and the Nasdaq composite index jumped 51.28, or 2.43 percent, to 2,163.12.  

Advancing issues topped decliners by more than 4 to 1 on the New York Stock Exchange, where volume of 1.39 billion shares led the 1.09 billion shares changing hands at the same point Wednesday.  

Bonds rose further on the Fed's statement, with the yield on the 10-year Treasury note tapering to 5.2 percent from 5.25 percent late Wednesday. However, the 2-year yield stood at 5.26 percent, indicating a persistant lack of confidence in holding long-term debt.  

The Fed's announcement enabled Wall Street to look past a steep jump in oil prices. Energy traders snapped up crude futures on a report showing shrinking U.S. gasoline reserves amid the start of the busy summer driving season. A barrel of light crude leaped $1.36 to $73.55 on the New York Mercantile Exchange.  
   RF5   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPCtagpf1wcat | sel----- | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | NA FIN MKT US Stocks | D8II2MSO1   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020060629e26t0023p  



 HDUS Treasuries rally on muted inflation, industry data     BYBy Ellen Freilich     WC585 words   PD30 June 2006   ET15:21   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006 Reuters Limited  
   LP(Updates with 3 p.m. prices)  

NEW YORK, June 30 (Reuters) - U.S. Treasury debt prices rose on Friday as a subdued inflation reading and a weaker-than-expected regional manufacturing report reinforced investors' perception the Federal Reserve is nearing an end to interest rate increases after two years.  
   TDTreasuries retained their buoyancy from Thursday, when they rallied after the Fed raised its key rate by 0.25 percentage point to 5.25 percent as expected. Analysts said the Fed statement that accompanied that rate hike left the door open to leave rates unchanged at its Aug. 8 policy meeting.  

Benchmark 10-year notes <US10YT=RR>, which respond to expectations for inflation and for long-term economic growth, climbed 13/32 in price for a yield of 5.15 percent, down from 5.20 percent late on Thursday and compared with 5.22 percent at the end of last week. Bond yields and prices move inversely.  

Two-year notes <US2YT=RR> , which are very sensitive to expectations for Fed monetary policy shifts, rose 2/32, their yields easing to 5.16 percent from 5.20 percent on Thursday and 5.27 percent a week ago.  

Bond investors' sense that the Fed is nearing the end of its two-year tightening cycle and pushed two-year yields down sharply in the latter part of the week.  

INFLATION, MANUFACTURING DATA WERE BULLISH FOR BONDS  

The U.S. core personal consumption expenditures price index, an inflation gauge closely tracked by Fed policymakers, came in as forecast, rising just 0.2 percent in May. For details, see [ID:nN29251873]  

"There was a lot of nervousness about the core PCE price number so there was relief that it came in as expected and not worse," said John Shin, senior economist at Lehman Brothers.  

This was especially so since the next Fed meeting is soon -- on Aug. 8, Shin said.  

"Fed monetary policy is data dependent and there's not that much data coming out between now and then: just two more payroll numbers, one CPI and one more PCE deflator," he said.  

A batch of numbers on consumer sentiment in June showed that consumers' view of their current and future prospects improved in June. Their expectations for inflation over one- and five-year horizons subsided, a development that ought to please Fed policymakers who are trying to influence monetary conditions in a way that will keep inflation expectations -- which can be self-fulfilling -- from flaring.  

The Chicago Purchasing Managers report showed business activity in the U.S. Midwest expanded at a slower rate than expected in June, and was bullish for bonds. For details, see [ID:nN30121301].  

"New orders plunged from last month's extremely high reading while production hit a three-year low ... (making it) increasingly clear that the industrial side of the economy is gradually losing traction," said Richard Iley, economist at BNP Paribas Market Economics.  

A nationwide survey on manufacturing, the Institute for Supply Management (ISM) report, is due on Monday.  

Trading activity dwindled on Friday afternoon. Although bond markets are open on Monday, some traders will take a long weekend that includes Tuesday's Independence Day public holiday.  

"With all the economic numbers out, (attention turned to) Argentina versus Germany," said Shin, referring to the World Cup Soccer match that took place on Friday afternoon.  
   RFMARKETS-BONDS (UPDATE 3)|LANGEN|ABN|E|RBN|D|U|M|MNI|J|UKI|AUF|RNP|DNP   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | gcat : Political/General News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mcpdbt : Corporate Debt/Bond Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ntop : Dow Jones/Reuters Top Wire News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCDBT | GVD | INT | MCE | STIR | NEWS | US/ | US/N | EMBG:DBT | embargokeyE1R1:1   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument LBA0000020060630e26u0017m  



 HDANALYSIS-Central banks to tread softly with eye on markets     BYBy Stella Dawson, Chief ECB Correspondent     WC880 words   PD30 June 2006   ET16:10   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006 Reuters Limited  
   LPFRANKFURT, June 30 (Reuters) - Softly, softly seems to be the message that central bankers are delivering on the path of global credit tightening that lies ahead.  

Financial markets are volatile and the cheap money that sloshed around the global economy after several years of very low interest rates is drying up fast.  
   TDInvestors and policymakers alike are growing increasingly uncertain about a possible global economic slowdown and whether it can dampen worsening inflationary pressures.  

This makes for a combustible mix. One wrong step by central bankers could upset an exceptional period of global expansion.  

"I compare it to crossing the river while feeling the stones," Bill White, economic adviser at the Bank for International Settlements, said after meetings with central bankers from around the world last weekend. "You have to do it very, very carefully."  

The worry is that if central banks soak up excess cash too rapidly, it will prompt investors accustomed to cheap funding to rush for the exits all at once and cause major financial disruptions.  

So far, recent market sell-offs have been welcomed by central bankers as a necessary re-pricing of risk, but they know it could turn disorderly. Bank of England Governor Mervyn King acknowledged as much on Thursday.  

"A degree of uncertainty has entered the economic landscape. That has been brought into focus by the recent turbulence in financial markets," he told a parliamentary committee.  

Little wonder that the Federal Reserve adopted a cautious tone on Thursday when it raised U.S. rates for the 17th straight policy meeting and signalled that the increases it began two years ago may be near an end.  

Similarly the European Central Bank, while it has left no doubt that credit tightening will continue this year, has stuck to a gradual pace. ECB hawks might be gunning for faster increases but President Jean-Claude Trichet has given no hint so far that he wants to raise the tempo.  

The Bank of Japan is poised to start raising interest rates, possibly next month but it too has shown no inclination to rush.  

MONEY STILL CHEAP  

This unusual period of near-simultaneous central bank tightening has led to global liquidity declining at its fastest rate in six years.  

Goldman Sachs calculates that average three-month interest rates in eight major economies have risen 30 basis points over the last quarter, a pace not seen since a 40 basis point rise in mid-2000. Yet these short-term rates remain way below levels seen in previous cycles. They average 3.5 percent today, which was the midpoint of the 2.2-4.8 percent range during the period of easing from late 2000 to mid-2003, Goldman said.  

This would suggest that some more rate tightening remains in store. Morgan Stanley estimates 50 basis points.  

Its currency strategist Stephen Jen said in a research note that real short-term rates today are around 1.5 percent, while in the 1990s they averaged 2 percent.  

Both investment houses warn that costlier financing could disrupt global investment patterns.  

"Rapidly changing liquidity conditions potentially lead also to faster changes in investment behaviour," said Thomas Stolper, a global markets strategist at Goldman Sachs in London.  

Jen agreed. "What this means is that as long as the 'world interest rate' is not in the restrictive zone, the global economy should continue to do well, but global financial prices may suffer," he said in a research note.  

Recent market volatility can be linked to withdrawal of liquidity. Two months after the ECB started raising rates in December, the high-yielding currencies of Iceland and New Zealand were hammered.  

Two months after the Bank of Japan in March ended its quantitative easing policy -- under which it flooded the banking system with cash to combat deflation -- major stock indices, gold and other commodities and some emerging markets were hit.  

Prospects this month that the Fed could push its key rate as high as 6 percent -- since cooled by its statement on Thursday -- coincided with a third wave of selling which has hit emerging markets such as Turkey, South Africa and some in central Europe.  

The amount of money that can shift when funding costs and risk appetite change is huge. For instance, Jen estimates that U.S. money under management totalled $18.6 trillion at the end of the first quarter and it was increasingly invested overseas.  

That far outstrips the $2.7 trillion in Asian central bank foreign exchange reserves, which has caused so much concern in recent years over the possibility that a sudden unwinding of dollar holdings would upset the global economy.  

Central banks' focus will remain on controlling inflation, not preventing market losses, in line with their mandates. But they are also keeping an eye on markets in deciding the pace and size of future rate moves.  

It was a surprise Fed rate rise in 1994 that sparked a bond market crash, followed by a Mexican peso debacle. A round of central bank tightening also preceded the Asian currency crisis four years later. Central banks don't want to go there again.  
   RFECONOMY-CENBANKS (ANALYSIS)|LANGEN|ABN|M|E|RBN|D|ABX|BNX|FUN   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecbnk : European Central Bank | gcat : Political/General News | m131 : Money Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mcpdbt : Corporate Debt/Bond Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ntop : Dow Jones/Reuters Top Wire News | ecat : Economic News | eec : European Union | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations   REeurz : Europe | jap : Japan | usa : United States | weurz : Western Europe | asiaz : Asia | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America   IPCCEN | MCE | FED | ECB | BOJ | MMT | DBT | INT | PLCY | NEWS | GVD | EMBG:DBT | EMBG:PLCY | embargokeyE1   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument LBA0000020060703e26u0019e  



 HDPOLL-Wall St split on Fed Aug rate hike prospects     BYBy Pedro Nicolaci da Costa     WC680 words   PD30 June 2006   ET19:08   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006 Reuters Limited  
   LPNEW YORK, June 30 (Reuters) - Wall Street was jubilant this week after the Federal Reserve appeared to leave open the possibility of a pause in interest-rate hikes, yet the central bank was just noncommittal enough to leave investors guessing.  

A Reuters poll of 20 primary dealers found that only a slim majority of 11 expects the Fed to hold rates steady at its August meeting, down from 16 in a June 14 poll. A pause would mark the first time officials refrained from tightening monetary policy over the past two years.  
   TDTwo particular elements in the central bank's policy statement appeared to favor the pause scenario: an emphasis on slowing economic growth and a suggestion that this easing could keep inflation in check.  

"Yesterday's announcement reinforced my view that the Fed will remain on hold at 5.25 percent through year-end," said Glenn Haberbush, economist at Mizuho Securities.  

The reaction was positive in both the bond and the stock markets, which rallied at the prospect of an end to the Fed's string of rate hikes.  

Still, for those economists who believed even before the meeting that resilient growth and rising inflation would force policy-makers to resume tightening later this year or even next year, the Fed's latest pronouncement did not change their minds.  

"The basic stance remained that the Fed leans toward more tightening and that the outlook is data dependent," said Stephen Stanley, chief U.S. economist at RBS Greenwich.  

In fact, a handful of firms changed their forecasts from predicting no move to seeing another hike in August, reading the lack of a more explicit pause signal as a possible green light for more tightening.  

As for the inflation outlook, investors were relieved to discover that an upward spike in the core consumer price index has not been mirrored in the core personal consumption expenditures index, which is preferred by the Fed.  

That number rose 2.1 percent in the year to May, just above the central bank's comfort zone but not alarming enough to suggest a lot more tightening is at hand.  

Understandably, the median forecast for the peak federal funds rate was unchanged from the prior survey at 5.50 percent. A number of firms still believed the Fed would end up going all the way to 6 percent, but that would only happen next year -- pending resilience in economic activity.  

Following are the results of the latest Reuters survey:  


              Fed       Fed       Peak FF    When will
              Action    Action    Rate this  FF Rate
COMPANY          Aug 8     Sept 20   Cycle      Peak?
-------------------------------------------------------------
ABN AMRO Inc     Raise 25  No Move    6.00      Early '07
Banc of America  No Move   Raise 25   5.75      Dec '06
Barclays Capital NA                                  
Bear, Stearns    No Move   Raise 25   5.50      Sept '06
BNP Paribas      No Move   No Move    5.25      June '06
Citigroup        Raise 25  No Move    5.50      Aug '06
CIBC             Raise 25  No Move    5.50      Aug '06
Countrywide      No Move   No Move    5.25      June '06
Credit Suisse    No Move   No Move    6.00      Mid 2007
Daiwa Securities Raise 25  No Move    6.00      Mid 2007
Deutsche Bank    No Move   No Move    5.25      June '06
Dresdner         Raise 25  No Move    5.50      Aug '06
Goldman, Sachs   NA                                   
HSBC Securities  No Move   Raise 25   5.50      Sept '06
J.P. Morgan      Raise 25  No Move    6.00      2007  
Lehman Brothers  Raise 25  No Move    5.75      Oct '06
Merrill Lynch    No Move   No Move    5.25      June '06
Mizuho           No Move   No Move    5.25      June '06
Morgan Stanley   Raise 25    -        5.50      Aug '06
Nomura           No Move   No Move    5.25      June '06
RBS Greenwich    No Move   Raise 25   5.50      Sept '06
UBS Securities   Raise 25  No Move    5.50      Aug '06
  

(Additional reporting by Pam Niimi, Chris Reese, Zubin, Jelveh, Torrye Jones, Ellen Freilich, John Parry and Richard Leong)  
   RFECONOMY-FED-POLL (URGENT)|LANGEN|Table|ABN|D|M|MNI|E|RBN|U   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | e1202 : Interest Rates | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mcpdbt : Corporate Debt/Bond Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ntab : Table | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | niwe : IWE Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCGVD | DBT | FCAST | FED | INT | MCE | POLL | CEN | STIR | PLCY | FED/R | EMBG:DBT | EMBG:PLCY | EMBG:FED/R | embargokeyE2   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument LBA0000020060703e26u001m8  



 HDUS SWAPS - Spreads mixed, while curve steepens     WC410 words   PD30 June 2006   ET21:14   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006 Reuters Limited  
   LPNEW YORK, June 30 (Reuters) - U.S. swap spreads were mixed but little changed on Friday while the swaps curve steepened on the week as traders digested Thursday's interest rate hike and policy statement from the Federal Reserve.  

Most swap spreads were 0.25 basis point on either side of unchanged, with the biggest move coming from a 0.75 basis point narrowing in the 30-year swap spread.  
   TDWhile the Fed raised official interest rates by 0.25 percentage point as expected on Thursday, the minimal changes to the policy statement offered little in the way of direction to swap spreads, a trader said.  

"(The Fed) basically told us the same thing they have been telling us for a long time, that they are data-dependent," said one swaps trader who did not wish to be identified.  

The Fed has said that the future course of monetary policy is heavily dependent on economic data like monthly inflation readings.  

However, the core personal consumption expenditures index -- the Fed's favorite measure of inflation -- for the month of May also offered little in the way of market direction on Friday, as it came in near expectations and soothed some fears of growing price inflation.  

Swaps trade also was somewhat listless ahead of the U.S. Independence Day holiday next Tuesday.  

"Today and Monday are difficult days to read anything into -- today is month end and Monday is a nothing day just before July 4," the swaps trader said, adding "you will really start trading again on Wednesday when you can take some sort of view."  

In the Treasury debt market, the benchmark 10-year Treasury note <US10YT=RR>_on Friday was trading 13/32 higher in price for a yield of 5.15 percent from 5.20 percent late on Thursday.  

The swaps curve steepened on the week, taking cues from a Treasury curve which has gradually reduced inversion over the past two weeks.  

Merrill Lynch said the Fed statement on Thursday at least hinted that the Fed is pondering a pause in monetary tightening, and that could help to steepen the curve over the near term.  

"The only near-certainty is that as aggressive tightening expectations recede, the front end should benefit the most, (and) the curve should resteepen at least a bit," Merrill Lynch said.  
   RFMARKETS-SWAPS|LANGEN|Table|ABN|E|RBN|D|M|MNI|U|RNP|DNP   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | m131 : Money Markets | m15 : Derivative Securities | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mcpdbt : Corporate Debt/Bond Markets | ntab : Table | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | niwe : IWE Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCINT | MCE | DBT | DRV | STIR | MMT | MUNI | SWP/ | EMBG:DBT | EMBG:SWP/ | embargokeyE2   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument LBA0000020060703e26u001r7  



 HDEuropean equity options volatility poised on Fed     WC606 words   PD29 June 2006   ET17:07   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006 Reuters Limited  
   LPLONDON, June 29 (Reuters) - Implied volatility in European stock index options is likely to fall if the U.S. Federal Reserve limits its interest rate increase to 25 basis points on Thursday, analysts said.  

But a larger-than-anticipated rise could set off a new wave of volatility in the markets, which would send stocks tumbling. The Fed's decision is due at 1815 GMT.  
   TDIf the Fed indicates that it has reached the peak of its tightening cycle following its 17th straight rise, the equity markets should rally. This, in turn, would lead to a continuing easing of implied volatility, which spiked during the market sell-off in May.  

Implied volatility is a key measure used in the options market to determine the anticipated price movements of an option based on the annual standard deviation of its daily returns.  

The most widely watched European volatility indicator, the VDAX <.VDAX> index which tracks Germany's DAX <.GDAXI>, reached 26.23 percent after the market sell-off last month, having been trading around 12 percent earlier in the year.  

"The current level of 19.45 percent is roughly in the middle," said Larry Chen, an equity derivatives researcher at UBS in London.  

"This shows how finely poised the market is -- it could move either way depending on what direction the Fed goes in."  

This uncertainty is reflected in the skew of the Eurostoxx 50 <.STOXX50E> index, the main platform for options trading in Europe, which is flattening slightly in an indication of a bias towards investor purchases of upside calls.  

Purchasing an in-the-money call gives the buyer the right, but not the obligation, to buy stock at an agreed strike price at a specified date in the future.  

While the anticipated 25 basis point rise has already been factored into the strike prices and implied volatility of options, there would still be a huge amount of portfolio hedging to be done as investors re-balance their books.  

Markets are also bracing themselves for the possibility of a higher-than-expected 50 basis point rise or unsettling language from the Fed, which would send volatility soaring and stock prices tumbling.  

"A 50 basis point jump in rates, or muddled language from the Fed would have a drastic effect, sending volatility up sharply - possibly as high as 30 percent," said Peter van Kleef, a European equity derivatives strategist at Investec in London.  

Societe Generale in its Weekly Cross Asset Report notes that the mismatch between volatility in the Eurostoxx 50 and its individual components shows that some investors still believe that there is still substantial short-term systemic risk in European equity markets.  

"As a result," says SocGen, "nervous investors are hedging this risk by buying bearish out-of-the-money puts on the index, which has, in turn, supported downside volatility."  

The nervous tension between those who favour the upside and those that are taking a more cautious stance shows how finely balanced equity market sentiment is.  

Neverthless, while put/call ratios on at-the-money strikes on the Eurostoxx 50 are close to equal, according to traders, the majority of strategies requested from the managers of bigger funds still appear to be bullish in nature, which suggests the prospect of a more settled equity market going into the summer.  

(Reporting by James Morris  

editing by Jane Baird  

Reuters messaging:  

rm://james.morris.reuters.com@reuters.net  

E-mail: james.morris@reuters.com  

Telephone: +44 207 542 0349))  
   RFMARKETS-STOCKS-OPTIONS|LANGEN|ABN|E|RBN|UKI|U|M|D|RNP|DNP|PTD|PMF   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | e1202 : Interest Rates | m15 : Derivative Securities | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REeurz : Europe | usa : United States | weurz : Western Europe | namz : North America   IPCCEN | MCE | INT | STX | ECI | DRV   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument LBA0000020060629e26t001hl  



 HDUPDATE 3-US futures dealers sense rate pause on dovish FOMC     BYBy Ros Krasny     WC533 words   PD29 June 2006   ET20:25   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006 Reuters Limited  
   LP (Updates to show San Francisco raises discount rate)  
   TD CHICAGO, June 29 (Reuters) - U.S. short-term interest rate futures on Thursday slashed prospects for more rate hikes by the Federal Reserve after the Fed ended its June meeting with what most dealers read as a dovish statement.  

 The Federal Open Market Committee raised benchmark rates by one-quarter percentage point, as expected, for a 17th consecutive meeting -- taking the federal funds rate to 5.25 percent, the highest since early 2001.  

 The FOMC statement emphasized moderating economic growth as part of its assessment of current conditions, a line that caused an immediate decline in chances for more rate hikes.  

 Financial markets had been primed for a hawkish FOMC outcome -- and a probable August rate hike -- based on a string of recent Fed jawboning on the importance of tamping down inflation expectations.     

 "I'm actually very surprised based on the kind of tough talk we've heard many of the Fed officials use over the last couple of weeks. This seems like something of a reversal," said Jack Ablin, chief investment officer at Harris Private Bank in Chicago.  

 Chances of another rate increase in August <FFQ6> ended at 65 percent against 81 percent shortly before the end of the FOMC meeting.  

 Fed watcher Paul McCulley, managing director at the giant bond fund PIMCO, said Thursday's rate hike would be the last in the current cycle and that the Fed could start lowering rates as soon as 2007. McCulley was speaking at a Morningstar investment conference in Chicago.  

 In its statement, the FOMC said higher energy prices were helping to slow growth from the strong pace seen early this year, but that inflation risks remain.  

 "The extent and timing of any additional firming that may be needed to address these risks will depend on the evolution of the outlook for both inflation and economic growth as implied by incoming information," the central bank said.  

 "Both the structure and language of the statement are more dovish than in May and are perhaps surprising -- pleasantly -- in the light of the recent round of speeches," said Ian Shepherdson, chief U.S. economist at High Frequency Economics in Valhalla, New York.  

 Thursday's decision to raise the fed funds rate was unanimous, but only ten of 12 district Fed banks initially requested a related increase in the discount rate.  

 San Francisco and Kansas City were the banks not asking for a discount rate hike. Late on Thursday San Francisco joined the crowd, raising the rate to 6.25 percent from 6.0 percent.  

 Harris Bank's Ablin said the Fed's challenge in the weeks and months ahead could be that growth slows at a time when inflation, a lagging indicator, is still rising.  

 "I'm not sure the Fed has really positioned market expectations for that condition. They don't want to limit their options, but it seems to me they really want to stop raising rates," Ablin said.   (Additional reporting by James B. Kelleher)      
   RFMARKETS-FEDFUNDS-FOMC (UPDATE 3)|LANGEN|ABN|E|RBN|M|D|U|MNI|RNP|DNP   INibcs : Business/Consumer Services | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe1201 : Central Bank Intervention | e1202 : Interest Rates | m15 : Derivative Securities | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mcpdbt : Corporate Debt/Bond Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCFED | MCE | FIN | BNK | GVD | DBT | DRV | INT   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument LBA0000020060629e26t001uf  



 HDAussie bonds jolted to 23mth lows by US rate jitters     BYBy Wayne Cole     WC712 words   PD29 June 2006   ET02:13   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006 Reuters Limited  
   LPSYDNEY, June 29 (Reuters) - Australian bond futures sagged to 23-month lows on speculation the U.S. Federal Reserve would not only raise interest rates on Thursday, but also leave the door wide open to yet another tightening.  

September 10-year bond futures <YTCc1> shed 0.045 points to 94.115, breaking May's trough of 94.120 and taking it to depths not seen since July 2004.  
   TDThe Fed is widely expected to raise the funds rate to 5.25 percent when its two-day policy meeting ends at 1815 GMT, or 4:15 a.m. Sydney time. Its 17th straight hike has been fully priced in but investors are far less certain about what the Fed will say on the chance of further moves.  

"The message is likely to be that if rates go anywhere it will be up, but it all depends on how the data pans out," said Peter Munckton, interest rates strategist at Commonwealth Bank.  

"If the Fed's no more hawkish than that, then many think bonds could rally given how much tightening is already priced in," he added. "Then again, when so many people expect something it rarely comes to pass."  

Munckton did note that U.S. 10-year yields were bumping up against a major chart barrier at 5.25 percent. Should bears fail to break it, there could be a rally back to 5.00 percent or so, which would drag Australian yields lower in the process.  

For now sellers were in control and September three-year bond futures <YTTc1> lost 0.030 points to 94.120, leaving them just above 30-month lows of 94.090 touched earlier this week.  

Three- and 10-year yields were virtually the same at 5.88 percent, the flat yield curve reflecting speculation the Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) might also raise interest rates again this year.  

The strength of the economy was underlined by data showing job vacancies jumped 7.3 percent in the three months to May, on top of a similar rise the previous quarter.  

Since vacancies tended to lead employment growth, the figures suggested the outsized 56,000 increase in jobs reported for May could be just the start of a stronger trend. If so, it could see the jobless rate fall even further from its present 30-year low of 4.9 percent and heighten the risk of a wage breakout.  

"That's a scenario which fits with growing pressure on the RBA to increase interest rates in the months ahead," said Stephen Koukoulas, research director at TD Securities.  

He doubted the central bank would move at its monthly policy meeting next week, but saw a real risk of a hike to 6.0 percent at its August meeting should second-quarter inflation data prove as high as some suspect.  

"An interest rise in August is most likely and the interesting issue will be whether there is another one after that," said Koukoulas.  

"The job vacancies data suggest the risks are rapidly moving the way of not one, but two interest rate hikes before the end of the year," he added.  

The market seemed sensitive to the risk and December bank bill futures <YBAZ6> lost 0.04 points on the day to end at 93.76, implying a three-month rate of 6.24 percent.   


---------------(Snapshot at 4:30 p.m./0530 GMT)----------------
FUTURES                                   CASH YIELD     
90-DAY BILL <YBAc1>(SEP) 93.88 ( -0.03) <AU3MBB=RR> 6.03 (6.03)
3-YR BOND  <YTTc1> (SEP) 94.120(-0.030) <AU3YT=RR>  5.88 (5.85)
10-YR BOND <YTCc1> (SEP) 94.115(-0.045) <AU10YT=RR> 5.88 (5.84)
AUD/USD <AUD=> 0.7280 (0.7302) US 10-YR <US10YT=RR> 5.24 (5.23)
---------------------------------------------------------------
AUD VS   2-YR           10-YR           *AUD 3-YR/10-YR SPREAD
USD       +60 ( +61)     +64 ( +63)     *FUTURES    00.0 (-0.5)
CAD      +141 (+142)    +124 (+123)     *AUD 2-YR/10-YR SPREAD
NZD       -58 ( -57)     -04 ( -06)     *CASH       00   (- 01)
---------------------------------------------------------------
  
   RFMARKETS-AUSTRALIA-BONDS (UPDATE 2)|LANGEN|Table|ABN|M|D|AUF|ND|CANT|RBN|ABX|RNP|DNP|PTD|PMF   NSm12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m15 : Derivative Securities | mcpdbt : Corporate Debt/Bond Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ntab : Table | e1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | niwe : IWE Filter   REaustr : Australia | cana : Canada | nz : New Zealand | usa : United States | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | namz : North America   IPCDBT | DRV | GVD | AU/ | EMBG:DBT | EMBG:AU/ | embargokeyE2E2   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument LBA0000020060702e26t00008  



 HDINSTANT VIEW 6-U.S. FOMC raises rates 25 bps to 5.25 pct     WC1,496 words   PD29 June 2006   ET20:41   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006 Reuters Limited  
   LPNEW YORK, June 29 (Reuters) - The U.S. Federal Reserve raised U.S. interest rates for a 17th straight time on Thursday and said more rises may be needed to curb inflation even after the now two-year run of credit-tightening.  

As widely expected, the central bank's policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee voted unanimously to lift the benchmark federal funds rate target a quarter-percentage point to 5.25 percent, its highest level since March 2001.  
   TD
 The FOMC -- meeting for just the third time under new Fed
Chairman Ben Bernanke -- said in a post-meeting statement that
further policy firming may be needed given inflation risks.
Story: [nTRT000141]  Text: [nN29214237]
  

COMMENTARY: MARKUS SCHOMER, VICE-PRESIDENT AND ECONOMIST AT AIG GLOBAL INVESTMENT GROUP, NEW YORK:  

"Nothing overly surprising. The Fed got this one right. All the markets are rallying. The statement reads a tad less hawkish, I think that's really what is causing the rally. It eases some of the fears that they might go to 6 percent." JOHN NORRIS, CHIEF ECONOMIST AND SENIOR FUND MANAGER, MORGAN ASSET MANAGEMENT, BIRMINGHAM, ALABAMA:  

"The market really seems to like it. The market is clearly telling us that it thinks this could be the end of the Fed tightening cycle.  

"The Fed appears to at least be admitting that the economy is slowing down.  

"Right now the market is breathing a little bit of a sigh of relief. This is certainly a far more soft tone in this statement then the May 10 meeting and really does suggest that we could see a pause in August." DAVID MOZINA, HEAD OF NEW YORK CURRENCY STRATEGY, LEHMAN BROTHERS, NEW YORK:  

"The statement appears to have been slightly more dovish than we had expected. This will pressure the dollar short-term and lead to short-covering in emerging markets and peripheral market space.  

"The (statement's) bias is similar to the old paragraph, but the moderation to growth should limit the inflation risks - hence a tad more dovish here.  

"Overall, a slightly more dovish statement than expected. The timing of the next rate hike is again data-dependant and if the Fed sees some weakness they will probably pause.  

"Given our upward revision to next week's payroll figure (175k from our initial 150k estimate) and the release of the May PCE deflator tomorrow, the dollar should not fall endlessly. However, the bias near-term has changed.  

"Lehman still expects the Fed to raise rates another 25 basis points in August and to follow up with a final 25 basis point rate hike in October." ELISABETH DENISON, ECONOMIST, DRESDNER KLEINWORT WASSERSTEIN, NEW YORK:  

"The stock market is slightly less hawkish than might have been feared. It's a similar story with the bond market. The short end of the market is rallying, pricing out some of the probability for an August rate hike. Just before the statement came out we had almost 80 percent probability for an August rate hike, now it seems to be coming down. It leaves the door open for a pause definitely. Maybe some people had been looking for a more definite sign of another rate hike." JOE BRUSUELAS, CHIEF U.S. ECONOMIST, IDEAGLOBAL.COM, NEW YORK:  

"We have Mr. Bernanke rebuilding his credibility in the eyes of the market by comitting to combat inflation while also indicating that the economy is cooling, but they're not at this juncture looking to use monetary policy to stimulate the economy. In other words, they do think the economy is cooling but not collapsing." WAN-CHONG KUNG, PORTFOLIO MANAGER, FIRST AMERICAN FUNDS, MINNEAPOLIS:  

"The language strikes me as being a step back from the relentless hawkish talk the Fed has been engaged in on inflation. The Fed is affirming its vigilance on inflation but at the same time trying to reassure markets that our situation isn't runaway inflation. It's a balanced statement. They want to strike a balance between credibility and flexibility."  

"They are continuing to say that the magnitude and the timing of any future hikes depends on the data," so it does not necessarily mean there will be a rate increase in August. KURT KARL, CHIEF U.S. ECONOMIST, SWISS RE, NEW YORK:  

"It's very much as expected. The statement leaves it open for more inflation potential and another rate hike depending on the data. I expect another 25 basis point increase in August because the inflation pressure will not go away in the next two months. The (federal funds) rate at 5.50 percent should do the job. They are as explicit as they can be about the incoming data. They are definitely not closing the door on anything. The economy is in solid shape, but the inflation risks are still bigger than the growth risks." FIRAS ASKARI, MANAGING DIRECTOR AND HEAD OF FX TRADING, BMO CAPITAL MARKETS, TORONTO:  

"The statement is a little bit more dovish than we were expecting. I think they are leaving the door open for a pause in August. I think they need to be more convinced of the inflation data for them to move in August. I give them a less than 50 percent chance in August. It is possible that the Fed is done. The dollar will continue to weaken especially against the yen." MATTHEW SMITH, VICE PRESIDENT AND PORTFOLIO MANAGER, SMITH AFFILIATED CAPITAL, NEW YORK:  

"It's not a question of what the market likes out of the Fed statement, it's the question that you're getting a 25 basis point increase at the end of the quarter that's been horrible for the stock market.  

"What you're getting is some momentum, with equity managers trying to pump up somewhat of a relief rally to window dress for quarter-end. Essentially the Fed's statement is identical to the one the Fed made on May 10.  

"The Fed is still looking for a shock effect in terms of inflation creeping into the data from the commodity complex. The stock market is still technically broken. All that's happening is you're just getting back to where you were from last Friday and before we opened on Monday." TIM ROGERS, CHIEF ECONOMIST, BRIEFING.COM, BOSTON:  

"At least this time they didn't come and suggest that they are going to have to keep raising interest rates, and that is giving the markets a boost -- it's supportive to stocks. Rates may be getting close to their peak." PAUL BRENNAN, PORTFOLIO MANAGER, NUVEEN INVESTMENTS, CHICAGO:  

"The statement, although reworded a bit, still seems to be saying they will respond as data warrants. But they seem more concerned about inflation risk. The bond maket is liking it, it's almost a relief rally." SCOTT FULLMAN, DIRECTOR OF INVESTMENT STRATEGY, HAPOALIM SECURITIES USA INC., NEW YORK:  

"The Fed's comments indicate that it may pause on raising rates in the future. That has given the market a boost shortly after the release of the policy statement. The market will now turn toward two seasonal factors, one being the end of the quarter window dressing and the other, the historical strong seasonal trend of the fourth of July holiday." MICHAEL WOOLFOLK, SENIOR CURRENCY STRATEGIST, BANK OF NEW YORK, NEW YORK:  

"We had some change in the language, and the dollar is coming off slightly, as I would expect. There was not sufficient language in the statement to suggest a hawkish position. They are squarely data-dependent, and there's some concern that core inflation has remained elevated in recent months. That's different from talking about only a modest effect on core inflation. I'd imagine if we get another 0.3 percent in core CPI to hike rates, but right now, I think we're 50-50 on a hike in August. The best we can make of this is the Fed is on hold ... and the dollar is likely to weaken." MARKET REACTION: - U.S. Treasury debt prices extend gains after Fed makes expected quarter percentage point increase. The benchmark 10-year note was up 8/32 in price to yield 5.216 percent. <US10YT=RR> [ID:nNYG000267] - Dollar falls after Fed raises rates as expected, but says slowing growth should help slow inflation. [ID:nNYH000221] The dollar fell, pushing the euro <EUR=> up at $1.2582 soon after the Fed raised interest rates from about $1.2530 shortly prior. The dollar declined against the yen, trading at 115.79 yen <JPY=> from about 116.10 yen. - U.S. rate futures show chance of August Fed hike at 59 percent versus 81 percent earlier. [ID:nCHB000193] - U.S. stocks extend gains after Fed interest rate decision. [ID:nN29229117] LINKS: - CHRONOLOGY-Fed funds rate changes since 1990 [ID:nN29259839]  
   RFECONOMY-US-INSTANT (URGENT)|LANGEN|Table|ABN|M|D|MNI|E|RBN|U|O|OIL|C|GRO|MTL|SOF   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | gpol : Domestic Politics | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ntab : Table | e1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | niwe : IWE Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCMCE | ECI | POL | FED | US/INSTANT | EMBG:US/INSTANT | embargokeyE2E2E2E2E2E2   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument LBA0000020060702e26t000g3  



 HDU.S. municipals end flat as Fed raises rates     WC247 words   PD29 June 2006   ET22:54   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006 Reuters Limited  
   LPNEW YORK, June 29 (Reuters) - U.S. municipal bonds finished little changed on Thursday even though Treasuries rallied as investors scaled back expectations of future interest rate increases after a widely anticipated rate hike by the Federal Reserve.  

The central bank raised its fed funds rate 25 basis points to 5.25 percent after a two-day policy meeting. But its statement was less hawkish than expected, so the Fed appeared closer to pausing its two-year tightening campaign.  
   TDTreasury yields fell as a result, but tax-exempt yields on high-grade municipal bonds were flat, according to Municipal Market Advisors.  

Although municipals underperformed their taxable counterparts, the market had a positive tone for a change, said a trader in New York.  

"The scale did not move," he said. "(But) it doesn't feel like a freefall any more. The market has some legs under it."  

He said buyers showed some interest in blocks of bonds in the 10- to 15-year part of the curve, which has cheapened in the second half of June due to heavy selling by arbitrage accounts and an insurance company.  

The trader said sellers took a break on Thursday and primary market activity was also light because issuers and underwriters tend to rush bond sales before the Fed's rate decision or wait until after the meeting, when there is less volatility in the market.  
   RFMARKETS-MUNICIPALS|LANGEN|MNI   INi82 : Insurance | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services   NSm12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcpdbt : Corporate Debt/Bond Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | e1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REeecz : European Union Countries | switz : Switzerland | usa : United States | weurz : Western Europe | eurz : Europe | namz : North America   IPCINS | FIN | EU | MUNI | DBT | GOS | REVS | MUNI/ | EMBG:DBT | embargokeyE1   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument LBA0000020060702e26t000i6  



 HDUPDATE 5-Base metals higher, focus on interest rates     BYBy Nick Trevethan     WC596 words   PD28 June 2006   ET06:38   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006 Reuters Limited  
   LP(Updates with New York closing prices)  

LONDON, June 28 (Reuters) - Copper bounced 2.4 percent on thin buying on Wednesday, but investors were cautious ahead of a U.S. Federal Reserve meeting on interest rates, dealers said.  
   TDAt the end of the day's trading London Metal Exchange copper for delivery in three months was at $6,900 a tonne, up $160 from the previous close. The metal lost almost 4 percent on Tuesday.  

On the New York Mercantile Exchange's (NYMEX) COMEX division, benchmark September copper <HGU6> ended up 10.10 cents, or about 3.3 percent, at $3.1870 a lb, at the upper end of its $3.0315 to $3.1910 trading range.  

"Metals are hanging around waiting for the Fed for direction. People are reacting as if the world is going into recession," Paul Horsnell, analyst at Barclays Capital, said.  

"We see more aggressive calls (for interest rate rises) because the economy isn't slowing...we see global growth peaking in the second half."  

Analysts expect a quarter of a percentage point rise in U.S interest rates to 5.25 percent on Thursday and will scan the post-meeting statement for clues to the pace of future policy tightening.  

A bigger rate rise might slow economic growth and crimp demand for industrial metals.  

Copper hit a record peak and gold touched its highest in 26 years in mid-May, but both have tumbled more than 20 percent since then, while equity markets also dipped as investors became increasingly risk-averse.  

PEAKED IN MAY  

"We likely saw the peak of the base metals price cycle on May 11, which was also the peak in equities," ABN AMRO analyst Nick Moore said.  

He noted that base metals prices had been particularly hard hit since those peaks, and while equity markets followed the same trend, it was to a lesser degree.  

Mining equities Antofagasta BHP Billiton and Xstrata all lost around one percent in London trade on Wednesday.  

On Tuesday copper ended down $260, or 3.7 percent, at $6,740 after the International Copper Study Group (ICSG) said world refined copper production exceeded consumption by 64,000 tonnes in the first quarter, against a deficit of 89,000 in the same year-ago period.  

Peter Richardson, chief metals economist at Deutsche Bank, said in a daily note that the ICSG had omitted inventory changes at the State Reserve Bureau, the body responsible for managing China's strategic copper reserves, in assessing Chinese consumption.  

Dealers said threats to supply, including strikes at two Grupo Mexico copper facilities and demands for a pay rise of up to 10 percent and improved health benefits at BHP Billiton's Escondida mine in Chile, would continue to limit losses in copper.  

Rio Tinto Ltd./Plc. said on Tuesday it intended to move to the next phase in a study that could lead to construction of a large aluminium smelter in Abu Dhabi in the United Arab Emirates.  

"Some people had another look at aluminium after the Rio Tinto smelter announcement, but realised it was still a long way off," the first dealer said.  

LME aluminium was unchanged at $2,485, zinc climbed $15 to $2,945 and nickel rallied $150 to $20,400.  

"There was reasonable buying in nickel during the midsession, which lifted the price $300 or so," another trader said.  

(Additional reporting by Jae Hur in Singapore and Chris Kelly in New York)  
   RFMARKETS-METALS (UPDATE 5)|LANGEN|ABN|C|MTL   INi224 : Non-ferrous Metals | i22 : Primary Metals | imet : Metals/Mining   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | gcat : Political/General News | m15 : Derivative Securities | m16 : Fund Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ntop : Dow Jones/Reuters Top Wire News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REaustr : Australia | chil : Chile | china : China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | eurz : Europe | india : India | jap : Japan | singp : Singapore | uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | weurz : Western Europe | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | chinaz : Greater China | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | eecz : European Union Countries | indsubz : Indian Subcontinent | lamz : Latin America | namz : North America | samz : South America | sasiaz : Southern Asia | seasiaz : Southeast Asia   IPCMET | DRV | FUND | INT | MCE | MET/L | CPX | NEWS   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument LBA0000020060628e26s0006a  



 HDUS Treasuries quiet in Asia, 5-year auction up next     WC523 words   PD28 June 2006   ET08:01   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006 Reuters Limited  
   LPTOKYO, June 28 (Reuters) - U.S. Treasuries were little changed on Wednesday in subdued Asian trade as investors waited to see what signals the Federal Reserve will send after an expected interest rate increase at this week's two-day meeting.  

A slide in Wall Street shares helped spur some buying of Treasuries, even as the Fed is almost certain to boost overnight rates to 5.25 percent after the gathering ending on Thursday and possibly leave the door open for another rise in August.  
   TDWith no major data coming before the Fed decision, market players will keep an eye on any further losses in stocks and prepare to absorb $14 billion of five-year notes at an auction later in the session.  

Dealers are a little nervous about the five-year auction because many of the recent offerings of the maturity have proved disappointing and sparked sell-offs immediately afterwards. Results are due at 1800 GMT.  

David Ader, chief government bond strategist at RBS Greenwich Capital, said in a note to clients that the five-year offering may go well since the absolute yield is near the highest since December 2000.  

"The broader market remains apprehensive ahead of the Fed, though we expect little material deviation from the official message," he said.  

Activity has been very quiet in Asia this week as investors wait for the Fed's post-meeting statement to see if the central bank tweaks its language on the policy outlook.  

At the past few meetings the Fed has said that some further policy tightening may yet be needed to stem inflationary pressures but such action would depend on the economic outlook.  

Analysts say the Fed is going to walk a fine line between trying to make clear they are keeping an eye on inflation, but with growth slowing and expected to cool price pressures later in the year another rate increase in August is not yet a done deal.  

The yield on benchmark 10-year notes <US10YT=RR> was little changed at 5.204 percent versus 5.208 percent in late New York trade Tuesday, near the four-year high of 5.251 percent, according to data from Garban Intercapital.  

The yield on the new two-year notes <US2YT=RR> auctioned on Tuesday slipped to 5.225 percent after having been sold at a high yield of 5.239 percent.  

In when-issued trade, the yield on the new five-year note was at 5.175 percent <US5YTWI=GBAN> versus 5.189 percent on the current issue.  

A report on Tuesday showed the housing market holding up better than economists had anticipated, with sales of existing homes slipping 1.3 percent to a 6.67 million annualised rate in May, better than forecasts for a 6.64 million pace.  

One of the biggest worries among investors is that a sharp pull-back in the housing market would hurt consumer spending and hit the overall U.S. economy.  
   RFMARKETS-TREASURIES-ASIA|LANGEN|RBN|ABN|M|J|D|NAT|AUF|E|U|MNI|RNP|DNP|PTD|PMF   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | gcat : Political/General News | m131 : Money Markets | m15 : Derivative Securities | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mcpdbt : Corporate Debt/Bond Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ntop : Dow Jones/Reuters Top Wire News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REjap : Japan | usa : United States | asiaz : Asia | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America   IPCDBT | GVD | INT | MCE | MMT | NEWS | DRV | STIR | MUNI | US/T | US/   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument LBA0000020060628e26s0009s  



 HDFOREX-Dollar falls further after Fed signals rate pause      BYBy Eric Burroughs      WC753 words   PD30 June 2006   ET08:22   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006 Reuters Limited   
   LPTOKYO, June 30 (Reuters) - The dollar hit a three-week low against the euro on Friday, extending losses after the Federal Reserve gave the clearest signal yet it may soon take a break from a two-year campaign of nonstop interest rate increases.   

The Fed said slowing economic growth should help rein in inflation after it lifted overnight rates for a 17th straight time to 5.25 percent, as widely expected.   
   TDBuilding expectations that the Fed could raise rates to 5.5 percent in August had driven the dollar to two-month highs against major currencies in the past week.   

"People have got caught long on dollars at very wrong levels," said Luke Waddington, head of forex trading at Royal Bank of Scotland in Tokyo.   

"We're trading on interest rates," he added. "Basically the Fed trumps all at the moment."   

The Fed also made clear it could tighten monetary policy again in the future depending on how both growth and inflation readings pan out. Futures on the fed funds rate show a roughly 65 percent chance of another move in August.   

"There is still the possibility for an additional rate hike by September, and that's what fed fund futures are pricing in. So any dollar fall will be limited," said Kikuko Takeda, currency strategist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ.   

For more clues about whether the central bank will further tighten credit, traders are looking to the U.S. PCE index, the inflation gauge most closely watched by Fed policymakers.   

The core PCE for May, due at 1230 GMT, is expected to show a rise of 0.2 percent from a month earlier. That would likely keep the year-on-year pace steady at 2.1 percent, at the upper end of the Fed's comfort zone.   

The dollar has come under pressure this year as the European Central Bank is expected to keep raising rates and the Bank of Japan prepares to start doing so as well after holding rates at virtually zero for more than five years.   

The yen briefly gained after data showed Japanese core consumer prices rose for a seventh straight month in May, reinforcing expectations the BOJ will start raising rates next month.   

Japan's core CPI rose 0.6 percent in May from a year earlier, the fastest since 1998 and giving yet more evidence that the economy has escaped from seven years of deflation.   

Another report showed Japan's unemployment rate in May matched an eight-year low of 4.0 percent.   

By 0520 GMT, the dollar slipped to 114.85 yen <JPY=> from near 115.20 yen, after having slid more than 1 percent on Thursday.   

The euro rose 0.4 percent to $1.2715 <EUR=> and climbed to near $1.2720, the strongest since June 8. The single currency edged up to 146.05 yen <EURJPY=> and took aim at the all-time high of 146.65 hit this week.   

TANKAN UP NEXT   

The upbeat data in Japan comes just before the BOJ's quarterly tankan index of business sentiment on Monday, which is forecast to rise as well on upbeat corporate profits and show plans for solid capital spending in the months ahead.   

If the tankan holds up despite the sharp drop in Tokyo shares during the June survey period, the report is expected to pave the way for the BOJ to raise rates at it's July 13-14 meeting, likely to 0.25 percent.   

The tankan's headline diffusion index for big manufacturers is forecast to rise to plus 22, from plus 20 in the March survey.   

Over the past five weeks the yen has suffered because it is seen staying one of the lowest yielding among major currencies, hitting an eight-year low against the pound.   

Even as BOJ Governor Toshihiko Fukui has come under pressure to resign over investments with a fund manager since indicted for insider trading, many analysts believe the BOJ is likely to press ahead and start raising rates for the first time in six years.   

"The number we had this morning is in line with expectations that the first rate hike will take place in July," said Takeda at BTM-UFJ.   

(Additional reporting by Brent Kininmont) ((Editing by Brent Kininmont; Reuters messaging; eric.burroughs.reuters.com@reuters.net; +81-3-3432-8478)) Keywords: MARKETS FOREX   
   RFFOREX-Dollar falls further after Fed signals rate|LANGEN|GNN|DNP   NSm13 : Money/Forex Markets | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | e1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument LBA0000020060630e26u000co  



 HDU.S. Treasuries flat in Asia, Fed outlook awaited     WC471 words   PD29 June 2006   ET06:50   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006 Reuters Limited  
   LPTOKYO, June 29 (Reuters) - U.S. Treasuries were flat in quiet Asian trade on Thursday as investors stuck to the sidelines to see if the Federal Reserve tweaks the wording of its statement after a widely expected interest rate increase later in the day.  

Benchmark 10-year notes <US10YT=RR> were flat to yield 5.249 percent, holding near the four-year high of 5.255 percent struck the previous session. Two-year notes <US2YT=RR> were also unchanged, yielding 5.283 percent.  
   TDThe Fed wraps up a two-day meeting and is widely expected to lift overnight rates a 17th straight time to 5.25 percent.  

The big question is what the central bank might say about the need for further credit tightening.  

After several Fed officials expressed unease at the pick-up in core inflation, expectations are running high for the Fed to lift rates again at its next meeting in August to 5.5 percent.  

Many analysts believe the Fed will be content to leave its current statement as is and repeat that further policy tightening may be necessary depending on the economic outlook, keeping those expectations for an August move intact.  

The Fed and Chairman Ben Bernanke can then wait to see more data, particularly on inflation, before giving a clearer signal on whether another rate increase is warranted.  

But if the Fed makes changes that would give it more leeway to take a break from the long streak of rate rises at the August meeting, analysts expect Treasuries to enjoy a relief rally.  

In late July, Bernanke is set to give the Fed's semiannual congressional testimony of the economic outlook and monetary policy, a forum where he speaks for the entire Federal Open Market Committee.  

"The Fed will have seen both the employment report and the CPI for June by then, and will have a much better idea whether or not the data will allow it to pause in August," said analysts at Wrightson ICAP in a note to clients.  

"Until then, the FOMC is better off letting the numbers do the talking," they said.  

Before the Fed decision, the market will see the third and final estimate of growth in the first-quarter as well as weekly jobless claims, both at 1230 GMT.  

Economists expect gross domestic product to be revised up slightly to a 5.5 percent annualised pace from the second reading of 5.3 percent.  

Jobless claims are forecast to hold roughly steady at 310,000 in the week ending June 24 compared with 308,000 the previous week. Claims around 300,000 typically suggest healthy employment growth in the economy.  
   RFMARKETS-TREASURIES-ASIA|LANGEN|RBN|ABN|M|J|D|NAT|AUF|E|U|MNI|RNP|DNP|PTD|PMF   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | gcat : Political/General News | m131 : Money Markets | m15 : Derivative Securities | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mcpdbt : Corporate Debt/Bond Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ntop : Dow Jones/Reuters Top Wire News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REjap : Japan | usa : United States | asiaz : Asia | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America   IPCDBT | GVD | INT | MCE | MMT | NEWS | DRV | STIR | MUNI | US/T | US/   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument LBA0000020060629e26t0007s  



 HDU.S. Treasuries sit tight before Fed rate verdict     BYBy Christina Fincher     WC485 words   PD29 June 2006   ET10:22   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006 Reuters Limited  
   LPLONDON, June 29 (Reuters) - U.S. Treasuries shuttled in a tight range on Thursday as investors waited to see if the Federal Reserve tweaks the wording of its statement after a widely expected interest rate increase later in the day.  

Benchmark 10-year notes <US10YT=RR> were 2/32 higher to yield 5.241 percent, holding near the four-year high of 5.255 percent struck the previous session. Two-year notes <US2YT=RR> were little changed, yielding 5.275 percent.  
   TDThe Fed wraps up a two-day meeting and is widely expected to lift overnight rates for a 17th straight policy meeting to 5.25 percent. The big question is what the central bank might say about the need for further credit tightening.  

Alessandro Mercuri, strategist at ABN Amro, said the Fed's statement, even if only little changed, should reflect the deteriorating inflation outlook.  

"We maintain our mid-term view of a deteriorating trade-off between growth and inflation, with higher nominal yields and with TIPS offering better value than conventional Treasuries," he said.  

Several Fed officials have expressed unease at the pick-up in core inflation and futures markets show a more than 80 percent probability the Fed will lift rates to 5.5 percent at its August meeting.  

WAIT AND SEE?  

Some analysts believe the Fed will be content to leave its current statement intact and repeat that further policy tightening will depend on the economic outlook.  

The Fed and its Chairman Ben Bernanke can then wait to see more data, particularly on inflation, before giving a clearer signal on whether another rate increase is warranted.  

In late July, Bernanke is due to give the Fed's semiannual congressional testimony on the economic outlook and monetary policy, a forum where he speaks for the entire Federal Open Market Committee.  

"The Fed will have seen both the employment report and the CPI for June by then, and will have a much better idea whether or not the data will allow it to pause in August," said analysts at Wrightson ICAP in a note to clients. "Until then, the FOMC is better off letting the numbers do the talking."  

Before the Fed decision, the market will see the third and final estimate of growth in the first quarter as well as weekly jobless claims, both at 1230 GMT.  

Economists expect gross domestic product to be revised up slightly to a 5.5 percent annualised pace from the second reading of 5.3 percent.  

Jobless claims are forecast to hold roughly steady at 310,000 in the week ending June 24 compared with 308,000 the previous week. Claims around 300,000 typically suggest healthy employment growth in the economy.  

(Additional reporting by Eric Burroughs)  
   RFMARKETS-BONDS-TREASURIES|LANGEN|ABN|M|E|RBN|D|NAT|RNP|DNP|PTD|PMF   NSe1201 : Central Bank Intervention | e1202 : Interest Rates | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mcpdbt : Corporate Debt/Bond Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REeurz : Europe | usa : United States | namz : North America   IPCDBT | GVD | FED | INT | MCE | US/ | US/L   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument LBA0000020060629e26t000jn  



 HDANALYSIS-Metals price in Fed rate rise, but risks ahead     BYBy Clare Black     WC604 words   PD29 June 2006   ET11:50   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006 Reuters Limited  
   LP LONDON, June 29 (Reuters) - Metals markets have priced in, and say they can live with, a consensus 25 basis-point hike in the Federal Reserve's interest rates, analysts said on Thursday.  
   TD The fly in the ointment would be hikes by central banks elsewhere, such as Europe and Japan, where relatively low interest rates have created "cheap money conditions" that have helped fuel the commodities boom, but could dry up.  

 All 20 primary bond dealers polled on June 14 said they believed a rate increase was a sure bet, a big shift from the survey taken earlier in the month when only a slim majority still thought the U.S. central bank would take a break from its tightening policy. [ID:nWAT005831]  

 "Assuming the 25-bps rise is now discounted by the market, it shouldn't shock the market," Robin Bhar, metals strategist at UBS Investment bank, said.  

 He said UBS was looking for a further 25 bps rise in August, which would mark the end of the Fed's tightening regime.  

 "You may even get a bit of a relief rally as some in the market are thinking the Fed could raise by 50 bps. But if the Fed does raise by that much, you'll certainly see some selling."  

 The Fed has raised the overnight federal funds rates in 16 consecutive quarter-point steps dating back to June 2004.  

 Historically, commodity prices have risen as interest rates start to rise in reflection of accelerating economic growth and so strong demand. But they then retreat as monetary tightening kicks in and reins back consumption.  

 Fears of inflation have spooked financial markets recently, causing investors to clamp down on riskier investments like commodities, emerging markets and equities.  

 "Commodity and equity markets are embroiled in the same overarching theme: that of tightening interest rates," said Nick Moore, global commodity research analyst at ABN-AMRO.  

 Rising rates also increase the cost to investors of funding long positions and makes the opportunity cost of holding zero-yield assets, like gold, more expensive.  

 The flight from risk knocked copper down 22 percent from a record high of $8,800 a tonne scored in May, while gold fell away from a 26-year peak of $730 an ounce to trade around $580.  

 "Markets have been running scared that central banks may overshoot and tighten too much," Bhar added. "That hasn't gone away completely and...they will be watching very closely for the commentary."  

 PASS THE BATON  

 Focusing on U.S. interest rate policy may be missing the more important point, some analysts said.  

 "Most of the excess liquidity in the system is currently being created by cheap money conditions in the Eurozone, Japan and elsewhere outside the United States," said John Kemp, economist with Sempra Metals.  

 "In terms of global liquidity, the real change is going to come as the European Central Bank and Bank of Japan tighten...and they could carry on raising rates for some considerable time after the Fed has finished."  

 If rates in those countries continue to rise after the Fed is done, that could choke off more global liquidity creation and thus put higher-risk assets under even more pressure.  

 "If central banks follow the U.S. lead and decide that public enemy number one is inflation, then clearly that will slow the business cycle and that can only be bad news for metals and particularly for the industrial metals," Moore said.    
   RFMARKETS-METALS-RATES (ANALYSIS)|LANGEN|ABN|C|MTL|D|E|RBN|M|ABX|BNX|FUN   INi224 : Non-ferrous Metals | i22 : Primary Metals | imet : Metals/Mining   NSe1201 : Central Bank Intervention | e1202 : Interest Rates | m1421 : Gold Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m14 : Commodity Markets | m142 : Metals Markets | mpcsmt : Precious Metals Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REeurz : Europe | jap : Japan | uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | weurz : Western Europe | asiaz : Asia | easiaz : Eastern Asia | eecz : European Union Countries | namz : North America   IPCMET | GOL | CEN | MCE | FED | INT   PUBReuters Ltd.   ANDocument LBA0000020060629e26t000ou  



 HDEuro continues climb against U.S. dollar after Fed signal on interest rates     WC213 words   PD30 June 2006   ET16:25   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.  
   LPBERLIN (AP) - The euro continued its advance against the dollar Friday after the U.S. Federal Reserve signaled that an end to its campaign of interest rate hikes may be near.  

The euro bought US$1.2767 in afternoon European trading, up from US$1.2644 in New York late Thursday. The British pound rose to US$1.8453 from US$1.8260.  
   TDOn Thursday, the euro already had gained about a cent as the Fed raised interest rates by another quarter point to 5.25 percent, but said that "inflation expectations remain contained."  

The statement was more dovish in tone than many investors had expected. The Fed's 17 consecutive rate hikes have bolstered the dollar; higher rates bolster a currency by increasing the return on some investments.  

On Friday, the Commerce Department said that consumer spending slowed sharply in May. Income growth also slowed to an advance of just 0.4 percent, reflecting weaker job growth.  

The dollar also dropped Friday against the Japanese currency, falling to 114.31 yen from 115.26 yen.  

Japanese data showed gains in consumer prices, fanning speculation that the country's central bank will raise rates as early as next month.  
   RF7   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | eec : European Union | e1202 : Interest Rates | e52 : Euro Zone/Currency | ecat : Economic News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations   REeurz : Europe | usa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagapf | selapfin | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | APFN EU FIN MKT Euro Dollar | D8IIJ9AG1   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020060630e26u001gu  



 HDDollar falls against most major currencies after Fed decision     BYBy J.W. ELPHINSTONE     CRAP Business Writer   WC468 words   PD29 June 2006   ET21:42   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.  
   LPNEW YORK (AP) - The dollar fell against most major currencies after the Federal Reserve raised interest rates and signaled that an end to its credit tightening campaign may be near.  

The euro bought $1.2644 in afternoon New York trading, up from $1.2550 late Wednesday in New York. The British pound rose to $1.8260 from $1.8185.  
   TDThe dollar dropped against the Japanese currency, falling to 115.26 yen from 116.40 yen late Wednesday.  

On Thursday, the Fed raised key short-term interest rates by a quarter point to 5.25 percent, as widely anticipated by the markets. This increase marked the 17th consecutive such hike since June 2004, which has helped to boost the dollar.  

Higher interest rates bolster a currency by increasing the return on some investments.  

In his statement explaining the decision, Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke said that "inflation expectations remain contained" even though rising energy and commodity prices "have the potential to sustain inflation pressures."  

"The extent and timing of any additional firming that may be needed to address these risks will depend on the evolution of the outlook for both inflation and economic growth, as implied by incoming information," Bernanke said.  

Although the interest rate hike fell in line with market expectations, the committee's statement caught the markets by surprise.  

"The statement was more dovish than most investors expected," said Michael Woolfolk, a senior currency strategist at the Bank of New York.  

Woolfolk said recent statements by several Fed officials led the markets to believe that the central bank was more concerned about inflation and that additional rate hikes were likely. Before the meeting, a few analysts even predicted a half-point increase.  

"Now the markets are thinking that a pause and an end in the tightening cycle are nigh," said David Gilmore, a partner at Foreign Exchange Analytics. "With Fed tightening at or near an end and rates going up in Europe and soon in Japan, we're going to see the return of the weak dollar trend."  

In other economic news, data released Thursday showed that the nation's economy sprang out of a year-end rut and grew at a 5.6 percent pace in the first quarter, the fastest in 2 1/2 years and even stronger than previously thought.  

In a separate report, the Labor Department said that new claims filed for unemployment benefits last week rose by 4,000 to 313,000 -- a bit more than economists were expecting.  

In other trading, the dollar bought 1.2377 Swiss francs, down from 1.2462 late Wednesday, and 1.1110 Canadian dollars, down from 1.1224.  

------  

AP Business Writer Matt Moore in Frankfurt, Germany, contributed to this report.  
   RF7   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | ecat : Economic News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagdstab | sel9---- | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | Dollar | D8II2QHO2   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020060629e26t001gu  



 HDStocks surge as Fed stands by rate policy     BYBy CHRISTOPHER WANG     CRAP Business Writer   WC952 words   PD30 June 2006   ET00:15   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.  
   LPNEW YORK (AP) - This time, Wall Street believes, it's for real.  

Investors who spent months hoping in vain for the Federal Reserve to end its string of interest rate hikes got a sign Thursday that the central bank might indeed be done. While the Fed raised short-term rates for the 17th time in two years, it also indicated in a statement that it would consider the overall health of the economy, and not just its long battle against inflation, as it sets its rate policy in the months ahead.  
   TDA stock market weary of rate increases and continually disappointed by Fed statements this year celebrated Thursday, sending the Dow Jones industrial average up 217 points, its biggest jump in more than three years.  

No one can be certain that Chairman Ben Bernanke and other Fed officials really are about to stop raising rates -- and the Fed's Open Market Committee did reiterate its concerns about inflation. But the Fed's statement noted that economic growth has slowed, and it acknowledged that this would be a factor along with inflation in its upcoming rate moves.  

"It's the first time the Fed has connected the weaker growth with the outlook for inflation," said Markus Schomer, economist for AIG's Global Investment Group. "That's very positive for the outlook going forward."  

The Fed boosted short-term lending rates by a quarter-point to 5.25 percent, and many investors have already factored another increase when the FOMC meets in August. But after that, the market believes, the rate hikes may finally end.  

The Dow surged 217.24, or 1.98 percent, to 11,190.80, its biggest single-day jump since March 21, 2003, when it added 235.37 points. The Dow was up about 80 points before the Fed's announcement.  

Broader stock indicators also saw their best sessions in years. The Standard & Poor's 500 index climbed 26.87, or 2.16 percent, to 1,272.87, its largest gain since rising 29.52 on March 14, 2003; the Nasdaq composite index jumped 62.54, or 2.96 percent, to 2,174.38, behind a 73.13-point advance on July 27, 2002.  

Advancing issues topped decliners by more than 5 to 1 on the New York Stock Exchange, where volume of 1.89 billion shares led the 1.5 billion shares that changed hands Wednesday.  

Bonds also rose on the Fed's statement, with the yield on the 10-year Treasury note tapering to 5.2 percent from 5.25 percent late Wednesday. The 2-year yield dropped to 5.2 percent, a signal of heightened confidence in holding long-term debt.  

The big advance on Wall Street followed weeks of wildly erratic trading, particularly after Bernanke earlier this month acknowledged that high energy prices could propel inflation.  

While the Fed statement left open the possibility of more rate hikes, "I think the overall tone sounds a little less hawkish," Schomer said.  

But Jack Ablin, chief investment officer at Harris Private Bank, said the statement was inconsistent with the tough talk on inflation used by a number of Fed officials in recent speeches. Although investors may be relieved that the Fed has "taken the teeth out of the statement," the risk of stagflation -- rising inflation in a stalled economy -- is still out there, he said.  

"This is an initial reaction," Ablin said. "The true test will be seen over the coming months as we see some of this trying data."  

The Fed's announcement enabled Wall Street to look past a steep jump in oil prices after a report showed shrinking U.S. gasoline reserves amid the start of the busy summer driving season. A barrel of light crude leaped $1.33 to $73.52 on the New York Mercantile Exchange.  

Elsewhere, the U.S. dollar retreated against the Japanese yen. Gold prices gained to about $590 per ounce.  

Government reports issued hours before the Fed meeting pointed to an economy that isn't overheating. The Commerce Department raised first-quarter gross domestic product growth to a 5.6 percent annual rate but cut the GDP's inflation measure to 3.1 percent, feeding optimism that price increases may be under control.  

A slight rise in jobless claims also bolstered hopes that a gradual weakening of the job market will be mirrored by the economy. First-time unemployment applications rose 4,000 to 313,000 last week, the Labor Department said.  

In corporate news, cereal and snack-food maker General Mills Inc. posted a 52 percent drop in quarterly profit -- matching Wall Street estimates -- after the sale some of its businesses inflated year-ago results. General Mills rose 15 cents to $51.61.  

Ford Motor Co. added to the auto industry's woes after The Wall Street Journal quoted Chairman and Chief Executive Bill Ford as saying the automaker was facing worse-than-expected sales declines amid high gasoline prices. Ford slipped 8 cents to $6.28.  

Merrill Lynch upgraded Dow component McDonald's Corp. to "buy," citing forecasts for improved sales and margins. McDonald's gained $1.59 to $33.56.  

The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies rose 26.28, or 3.82 percent, to 714.32.  

In overseas trading well before the Fed's announcement, Japan's Nikkei stock average surged 1.58 percent. Britain's FTSE 100 climbed 1.99 percent, Germany's DAX index added 2.29 percent and France's CAC-40 was higher by 2.23 percent.  

------  

On the Net:  

New York Stock Exchange:  http://www.nyse.com 

Nasdaq Stock Market:  http://www.nasdaq.com 
   RF7   NSm11 : Equity Markets | e1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagdstab | sel9---- | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | Wall Street Close Optional | D8II52H00   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020060629e26t003gv  



 HDNA FIN US Fed Statement     BYBy The Associated Press     WC294 words   PD29 June 2006   ET20:31   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.  
   LPThe statement by the Federal Open Market Committee explaining its decision Thursday to raise a key interest rate.  

------  
   TDRecent indicators suggest that economic growth is moderating from its quite strong pace earlier this year, partly reflecting a gradual cooling of the housing market and the lagged effects of increases in interest rates and energy prices.  

Readings on core inflation have been elevated in recent months. Ongoing productivity gains have held down the rise in unit labor costs, and inflation expectations remain contained. However, the high levels of resource utilization and of the prices of energy and other commodities have the potential to sustain inflation pressures.  

Although the moderation in the growth of aggregate demand should help to limit inflation pressures over time, the Committee judges that some inflation risks remain. The extent and timing of any additional firming that may be needed to address these risks will depend on the evolution of the outlook for both inflation and economic growth, as implied by incoming information. In any event, the Committee will respond to changes in economic prospects as needed to support the attainment of its objectives.  

Voting for the FOMC monetary policy action were: Ben S. Bernanke, Chairman; Timothy F. Geithner, Vice Chairman; Susan S. Bies; Jack Guynn; Donald L. Kohn; Randall S. Kroszner; Jeffrey M. Lacker; Sandra Pianalto; Kevin M. Warsh; and Janet L. Yellen.  

In a related action, the Board of Governors unanimously approved a 25-basis-point increase in the discount rate to 6- 1/4 percent. In taking this action, the Board approved the requests submitted by the Boards of Directors of the Federal Reserve Banks of Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, Minneapolis, and Dallas.  
   RF7   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPCtagpf1wcat | sel----- | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | NA FIN US Fed Statement | D8II1PE82   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020060629e26t002nu  



 HDDollar falls against most major currencies after Fed decision     BYBy J.W. ELPHINSTONE     CRAP Business Writer   WC469 words   PD29 June 2006   ET21:49   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2006.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.  
   LPNEW YORK (AP) - The dollar fell against most major currencies Thursday after the Federal Reserve raised interest rates and signaled that an end to its credit tightening campaign may be near.  

The euro bought $1.2644 in afternoon New York trading, up from $1.2550 late Wednesday in New York. The British pound rose to $1.8260 from $1.8185.  
   TDThe dollar dropped against the Japanese currency, falling to 115.26 yen from 116.40 yen late Wednesday.  

In other trading, the dollar bought 1.2377 Swiss francs, down from 1.2462 late Wednesday, and 1.1110 Canadian dollars, down from 1.1224.  

On Thursday, the Fed raised key short-term interest rates by a quarter point to 5.25 percent, as widely anticipated by the markets. This increase marked the 17th consecutive such hike since June 2004, which has helped to boost the dollar.  

Higher interest rates bolster a currency by increasing the return on some investments.  

In his statement explaining the decision, Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke said that "inflation expectations remain contained" even though rising energy and commodity prices "have the potential to sustain inflation pressures."  

"The extent and timing of any additional firming that may be needed to address these risks will depend on the evolution of the outlook for both inflation and economic growth, as implied by incoming information," Bernanke said.  

Although the interest rate hike fell in line with market expectations, the committee's statement caught the markets by surprise.  

"The statement was more dovish than most investors expected," said Michael Woolfolk, a senior currency strategist at the Bank of New York.  

Woolfolk said recent statements by several Fed officials led the markets to believe that the central bank was more concerned about inflation and that additional rate hikes were likely. Before the meeting, a few analysts even predicted a half-point increase.  

"Now the markets are thinking that a pause and an end in the tightening cycle are nigh," said David Gilmore, a partner at Foreign Exchange Analytics. "With Fed tightening at or near an end and rates going up in Europe and soon in Japan, we're going to see the return of the weak dollar trend."  

In other economic news, data released Thursday showed that the nation's economy sprang out of a year-end rut and grew at a 5.6 percent pace in the first quarter, the fastest in 2 1/2 years and even stronger than previously thought.  

In a separate report, the Labor Department said that new claims filed for unemployment benefits last week rose by 4,000 to 313,000 -- a bit more than economists were expecting.  

------  

AP Business Writer Matt Moore in Frankfurt, Germany, contributed to this report.  
   RF5   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | ecat : Economic News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPCtagpf1wcat | sel----- | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | NA FIN MKT US Dollar | D8II2TQ01   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020060629e26t002vm  
 Page 1 of 1      2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.


 

 Page 1      2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.

