 


 HDWhat the Rate Cut Means for You --- Fed's Half-Point Move Likely to Trim Payments on Credit Cards, Home-Equity Lines, but Offer Scant Relief on Certain Mortgages   BYBy Jane J. Kim and Ruth Simon    WC1,531 words   PD19 September 2007   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGD1   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 2007, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   CXCorrections &Amplifications

The Federal Reserve's half-percentage-point drop in short-term interest rates should result in a savings of about $30 a year for the typical household, which carries a median credit-card debt of $7,000. A Personal Journal article Wednesday incorrectly said the rate cut would result in a savings of about $30 a month.

(WSJ Sept. 21, 2007)

(END) 
   LPConsumers should soon start feeling the impact of yesterday's Fed rate cut in the form of lower borrowing costs and stingier savings rates. But the rate cut doesn't offer much help for the key problems bedeviling many mortgage borrowers.

The Federal Reserve said it lowered short-term interest rates by half a percentage point, to 4.75%, to combat the effects of a weaker housing market and tighter credit on the broader economy. The steep reduction in the Fed funds rate surprised many on Wall Street who expected a more modest rate cut. Stocks rose sharply after the Fed's announcement, with the Dow Jones Industrial Average gaining 335.97 points, or 2.5%, to 13739.39.
   TDThe rate cut should reduce payments on many home-equity lines of credit, credit cards and some car loans. Perversely, however, some economists say it could lead to higher rates on fixed-rate mortgages down the road if bond markets expect the Fed move will spur higher economic growth or inflation.

There also is likely to be little immediate relief for borrowers with certain types of adjustable-rate mortgages. That's because the rates on some of these loans are tied to the London interbank offered rate, or Libor, which recently jumped sharply above the Fed funds rate because of the continuing credit crunch in the markets. Libor, which has drifted downward recently, is an interest rate charged by banks for short-term loans to each other.

"If Libor doesn't come down, there is no relief" for many mortgage borrowers, says James Bianco, president of Bianco Research LLC, a market-research firm in Chicago.

Borrowers who should see immediate benefits from the Fed cut are those holding loans tied to U.S. banks' prime rate. Consumers can contact their lenders to inquire how their rates are calculated. Many banks cut their prime rates by half a percentage point after yesterday's Fed move.

Here is a look at what the Fed's action means for consumers:

-- Homeowners. The rate cut is good news for borrowers with home-equity lines of credit, and savings could show up as soon as the next monthly statement. Borrowers looking for a new fixed-rate home-equity loan could also see lower rates. There are likely to be regional differences, with lenders most likely to cut rates on these loans in areas where the housing market is healthy and the local economy is robust, says Doug Duncan, chief economist of the Mortgage Bankers Association. Before the Fed's latest move, rates on home-equity lines averaged 8.72%, while home-equity loans averaged 8.29%, according to HSH Associates.

But in a twist, the Fed cut could boost rates down the road for 30-year fixed-rate mortgages. These rates are typically influenced by rates on 10-year Treasurys, which have moved lower recently in anticipation of a quarter-point cut in rates and because of a flight to quality in bond markets. But if markets expect a higher level of economic growth than previously anticipated, or a pickup in inflation, borrowers could see "some modest increase in fixed-rates going forward, though not necessarily immediately," Mr. Duncan says.

Recent news has been mixed for borrowers with adjustable-rate mortgages. Borrowers with ARMs that are tied to Treasury averages have benefited from a recent decline in rates. For those who are facing their first rate reset on Oct. 1, "that reset will be less painful than it would have been had it taken place a couple months ago," says Greg McBride, a senior financial analyst with Bankrate.com.

But higher borrowing costs may still be in the offing for homeowners whose adjustables are tied to Libor. Libor is frequently used to set rates for subprime adjustables, loans made to borrowers with scuffed credit. As for non-subprime ARMs, roughly half of these originated in recent years are also tied to Libor, estimates Keith Gumbinger, a mortgage analyst with HSH Associates. Borrowers can determine which index their adjustable is tied to by checking their loan documents.

The rate cut isn't likely to do much for the biggest problem facing the mortgage market: a liquidity crunch that has made it tougher for many borrowers to get a loan. "People have been characterizing this as a bailout for housing, but I don't think that's accurate," says Mr. Duncan of the Mortgage Bankers Association. The rate cut is "much more about the broader economy," while the mortgage market's troubles are "all about credit and property values."

-- Savers. Savers could soon see lower payouts on their savings accounts, certificates of deposit and money-market mutual funds. In fact, some banks have already started to reduce their rates or scale back their deals. Bank of America Corp., for instance, recently shortened the maturities on its promotional CDs paying 5% to four months from eight months.

Nevertheless, banks are going to be reluctant to cut rates before their competitors, in part because consumer deposits remain one of the cheapest sources of funds available for the banks, says Bankrate.com's Mr. McBride. In fact, average CD rates have barely budged in recent months with yields on five-, three- and one-year CDs currently at 4%, 3.77% and 3.76%. "That is very uncharacteristic," since CD yields normally move well in advance of a Fed action, he says. "Savers are getting a break."

Average yields on money-market mutual funds, which have been hovering at 5% for about a year, are likely to drop to about 4.5% in the next month, says Pete Crane of Crane Data LLC. But part of the fall in yields may be counteracted by some managers' moves to buy higher-yielding asset-backed commercial paper, he says. As a result, there may be a benefit to shopping around since money managers can differentiate their funds' performance by investing in the higher-yielding securities.

-- Credit Cards. Many credit-card customers should soon see some relief. About 85% of all credit cards carry variable rates. But many holders of these cards will see a benefit only if their current rate exceeds any floors established by the issuers, typically around 14% to 15%, below which their rates can't fall. Today, most interest rates are in the 18%-to-19% range.

Since most issuers adjust their pricing on a monthly basis, about half of all variable-rate cards should see an adjustment in October, with the rest in November, says Robert McKinley, chief executive of CardWeb.com. "Consumers could find some money in their pockets in about a month." The half-percentage-point drop in rates should result in a savings of about $30 a month for the typical household, which carries a median credit-card debt of $7,000, he says.

-- Auto Loans. A rate cut isn't likely to have a big impact on new-car loans in part because more than half of all auto loans are already offered at reduced rates due to heavy manufacturer incentives, says Art Spinella, president of CNW Marketing Research Inc. But the Fed's move could make it cheaper to get a used-car loan because many people turn to banks and credit unions to finance their purchase, he says.

Still, consumers could start seeing better financing deals if the Fed continues to cut rates. Auto-loan rates, generally tied to the movement in Treasurys, already had started to ease given the recent drop in Treasury yields. Average rates on five-year new-car loans are 7.72%, versus 7.81% on July 4, according to Bankrate.com.

-- Student Loans. Students with private, variable-rate student loans pegged to the prime rate may see their rates adjust more quickly than borrowers with loans tied to Libor. (Loans pegged to Libor or the prime rate are split about equally.)

But that doesn't automatically mean that borrowers should switch to prime-based loans. Historically, loans pegged to Libor have tended to yield a slightly lower rate than loans tied to prime over the life of the loan, says Mark Kantrowitz, publisher of FinAid.org.

--- 


                               Rate Expectations 
 
  Here's how the Fed's rate cut could affect your wallet: 
 
  -- Expect lower rates on home-equity lines of credit and some credit cards. 
 
  -- Brace yourself for lower yields on money-market funds and savings 
products. 
 
  -- Borrowers with adjustable-rate mortgages tied to Libor aren't likely to 
get immediate relief. 
 
  -- Fixed-rate mortgage rates could move higher if inflation worries grow.    



License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   INi81501 : Credit Types/Services | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe1122 : Mortgage Applications/Refinancing | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | gpersf : Personal Finance | gvexe : Executive Branch | m131 : Money Markets | ncrx : Corrected Items | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | gcat : Political/General News | glife : Living/Lifestyle | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCPIC | FED | USG | FCL | NND | TPX | PSJ | TPT   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument J000000020070919e39j00035  


 SEPersonal Finance   HDCommon Sense: There May Yet Be Value In Mortgage Securities   BYBy James B. Stewart SmartMoney      WC596 words   PD19 September 2007   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGD2   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 2007, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)   
   LPI read recently that Pacific Investment Management Co., the big bond-oriented money-management firm, has launched a distressed-mortgage fund. A Pimco spokesman said this is a "private fund" unavailable to the likes of individual investors like me, but if not, I'd be in line to invest.

This may seem foolhardy, given the recent subprime-induced credit-market turmoil and the Federal Reserve's decision to cut the federal-funds rate, suggesting that the broad economy has indeed been harmed. August foreclosures jumped 36% from July, suggesting things are continuing to get worse.
   TDStill, I have the distinct impression that when it comes to mortgage-backed securities, in many cases the baby has been thrown out with the bath water. Some triple-A-rated securities went overnight from being gilt-edged to something impossible to value because there was no market. True, there were plenty of excesses in lending practices, many only now coming to light. Bond-rating agencies may have been overgenerous with their triple-A designations. But that doesn't mean all mortgages or all mortgage-backed securities are worthless.

I was raised to believe that homeownership is a linchpin of the American dream and that the mortgage payment that makes it possible is an almost sacred obligation. I'd give up just about anything else to make that payment. I know plenty of people who feel the same way.

This isn't a notion that's been showing up in recent stories about people failing to make their mortgage payments and facing foreclosure. I'm convinced that most of these people are trying desperately to make their payments and stay in their homes.

Mortgage defaults aren't the equivalent of the savings-and-loan mess. During work on my book "Blood Sport," about the Whitewater affair, former Clinton backer and Arkansas S&L operator Jim McDougal (now deceased) told me how he'd squandered millions on Campobello, a resort in chilly New Brunswick, Canada, primarily because his hero, F.D.R., had vacationed there in the days before air travel made warm, sunny climes accessible to almost everyone. The development made little or no economic sense, and no federal bailout would ever recoup the losses. By contrast, most residences have value, even if they have recently been sold at inflated prices. Over time they will appreciate. And the vast majority of borrowers will make their payments.

Apart from Pimco, I know of several funds that are buying distressed mortgages. This takes extensive research and is labor-intensive but seems far more efficient than a congressional bailout. The approach seems likely to help ease the crisis, help struggling borrowers, and reward investors. Unfortunately, I haven't heard of any of these funds that are open to individual investors.

Amidst all the talk of congressional bailouts and interest-rate cuts, let's not forget the millions of homeowners who are dutifully making their mortgage payments even if it means giving up an evening out or a vacation. These are the hard-working, responsible people who make the American economy the greatest in the world, and I'd buy securities backed by their mortgages any day.

---

James B. Stewart, a columnist for SmartMoney magazine and SmartMoney.com, writes weekly about his personal investing strategy. Unlike Dow Jones reporters, he may have positions in the stocks he writes about. For his past columns, see: www.smartmoney.com/wsj_common .

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   NSe1122 : Mortgage Applications/Refinancing | gpersf : Personal Finance | e1202 : Interest Rates | emort : Mortgage Rate | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCNND | CMS | PSF | PSJ   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument J000000020070919e39j0000r  



 CLMAhead of the Tape   HDAhead of the Tape   BYBy Justin Lahart    WC596 words   PD19 September 2007   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGC1   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 2007, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LPInflation Phobic

Breathe Easier
   TDFor the Moment

For inflation-phobes, today's report on consumer prices shouldn't give any cause for alarm. But if the Federal Reserve keeps cutting rates, the respite may be only temporary.

Economists surveyed by Dow Jones Newswires estimate the August level of the consumer price index was unchanged from July, putting it 2.1% higher than it was a year earlier. The more closely watched (at least by economists) core inflation rate, which excludes food and energy prices, is expected to show a 0.2% gain, putting it 2.2% higher than a year earlier. It makes for a much tamer report than August last year, when overall prices were 3.8% above year-earlier levels and core prices were up by 2.8%.

Nevertheless, when the Fed cut rates by a half-point yesterday, it cautioned that "some inflation risks still remain." Some investors concluded that not only did the risks remain, they'd just gotten worse.

Long-term bond investors consider inflation their biggest enemy, because it eats at returns. In a sign that investors sought protection from inflation, prices for 10-year Treasury inflation-protected securities, which compensate investors for rising consumer prices, rose.

Typically when the Fed starts cutting, inflation isn't high up on investors' worry list. But yesterday's cut came at a time of good global growth with many emerging market economies running, if anything, too hot.

Morgan Stanley economist Jonathan Garner says that today's environment is the mirror image of 1998. Then, central banks around the world eased policy in response to an emerging market-centered crisis. The surfeit of cash that resulted flowed strongest to where the economy was strongest -- the U.S. -- kicking the dot-com bubble into high gear.

Today's troubles are U.S.-centered, and they've filtered out to other developed markets like Germany and the U.K. If the cash flows to where the action is -- emerging markets -- rising demand could push commodity prices higher. Prices for imports, already rising, could accelerate. Together these could drive up inflation and could test the Fed's wherewithal to cut rates.

Will Wall Street'sTitans

Rebound After Fed's Move?

Wall Street got its interest-rate cut. Is it time to buy Wall Street?

Some experts think lower rates will be great for financial firms, reigniting the lucrative leveraged-buyout boom and boosting stocks. Jeffrey Kleintop of LPL Financial Services cites rebounds in deal activity following Fed moves in 1987, 1995 and 1998.

Financial stocks in the S&P 500 rose 4.5% yesterday, the best performance by any sector in the index. Private-equity giant Blackstone Group rose 3.8%.

But it could be a short-lived move. Consider how financial stocks like Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley did in 2001, a year the Fed pushed down rates. Goldman's shares fell 13% that year, and Morgan 29%.

The risk is that the economy doesn't respond to the Fed's move as quickly as investors hope. The housing market's free-fall shows few signs of abating. Indeed, long-term interest rates could rise if investors think the Fed's rate cuts will stoke inflation, something that could hurt homeowners with mortgages tied to those rates.

A weak economy equals lower earnings -- not a recipe for success on Wall Street.

-- Scott Patterson

---

Email to scott.patterson@wsj.com and justin.lahart@wsj.com 



License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | ecat : Economic News | gvexe : Executive Branch | m11 : Equity Markets | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCPIC | FED | USG | NND | AOT | TFR   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument J000000020070919e39j0002t  


 CLMREVIEW &OUTLOOK (Editorial)   HDThe Fed's Alibi   WC977 words   PD17 September 2007   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGA16   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 2007, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LPThe Federal Reserve's Open Market Committee meets tomorrow, and anyone who thinks its decision on interest rates will be simple hasn't been paying attention the last week. As expectations of Fed easing have risen, so too have such inflation-sensitive signals as gold and oil, while the dollar has hit record lows against the euro. Contrary to the dreams of Wall Street, there's no free monetary lunch.
   TDYou wouldn't know this from most financial commentary, which assumes that Chairman Ben Bernanke and the Fed can ease and credit markets shall be healed, like the infirm at Lourdes. It worked during the financial crises of 1987 and 1998 under Alan Greenspan, goes the argument, and so it shall again. The problem, however, is that the Fed doesn't have the same running room now -- in large part because of the mistakes that it made in Chairman Greenspan's final years. The Fed's easy money policies helped cause the housing bubble and subprime crisis, and now it's being asked to solve them with more of the same.

With that in mind, it's hardly reassuring that both Messrs. Bernanke and Greenspan are now offering their own defenses of Fed policy. They take different forms, but they are both in essence alibis for the Fed's current predicament.

Mr. Bernanke made his attempt in a speech last week on the "global savings glut," which seems to be his full-field explanation for just about everything. The rise of excess savings in China, the Mideast and elsewhere in the early part of this decade made them net exporters of capital, which proceeded to flow into the U.S. The Fed chief argues that this propelled the U.S. current account deficit and also explains why American long-term interest rates have stayed so low. Translation: The Fed didn't cause the housing bubble; frugal foreigners did it!

The problem with this explanation is that it omits the Fed's role in producing this "savings glut." Billions of people around the world didn't suddenly become more thrifty during this decade. It was the Fed's low interest rate policy -- especially a 1% fed funds rate from June 2003 to June 2004 -- that helped spur a global commodity price boom, including in the dollar-denominated price of oil. This created a revenue boom in Russia, the Middle East and other countries -- most of which have a low propensity for domestic consumption, so much of that capital went elsewhere, especially to the U.S.

As an oil importer, China is a little different case. But as Mr. Bernanke noted in his speech, "with consumer credit not readily available and precautionary motives for saving remaining strong," China's domestic consumption was also restrained. So its capital also flowed abroad -- again often into U.S. financial instruments. Mr. Bernanke is right about these flows of capital and their contribution to low U.S. interest rates, but he's more than a bit slippery in ignoring the Fed's role in this global wealth transfer.

Meanwhile, Mr. Greenspan has emerged from the six-figure speaking circuit with his memoir, "The Age of Turbulence." The headlines are focusing on his criticism of Republicans for their spending excesses, and President Bush for his failure to use his veto pen. He'll get no argument from us on those, though we'd note that his claim that deficits produce higher interest rates simply hasn't proved true.

The "Maestro" is far less persuasive in his explanation for why the Fed kept money so easy for so long. He says it was to "shut down the possibility of corrosive deflation." But fear of deflation was long gone by the third quarter of 2003, after the second round of Bush tax cuts had passed and GDP growth clocked in at 7.2% on an annual basis (later revised to 7.5%). The Fed nonetheless maintained negative real interest rates for many more months to come. This has proven to be the great policy blunder of Mr. Greenspan's tenure, with ramifications that are making life difficult for Mr. Bernanke today.

This isn't 20-20 hindsight, by the way. These columns were critical of Fed policy throughout that period -- not because we had any special insight but because market price signals like gold, oil, the dollar and later housing were flashing yellow and then red. Meanwhile, the Fed was watching its measure of "core inflation," which turns out to have been misleading in part because it didn't include an adequate account of housing prices. A rethinking of its inflation measures should be one lesson the Fed learns from this episode.

---

Which brings us to the Fed's current dilemma. The housing recession has caused the overall economy to slow, and recession worries are rampant. Many on Wall Street want their bubble back, and they are begging the Fed to reflate. But inflation also remains near the upper limit of the Fed's comfort level, the dollar is weak, gold is back above $700 and oil briefly popped above $80 a barrel last week.

For those of us who remember the economics of the 1970s, one abiding lesson is that trouble comes when the Fed is asked to spur economic growth. The job of a central bank is price stability. The Reagan-Paul Volcker policy mix was tight money combined with tax cutting, which reversed the 1970s' mix of easy money and tax increases. Washington is in danger of drifting back, almost unconsciously, to that 1970s' policy. Whether or not the Fed cuts rates tomorrow, we'd feel better about the decision if Fed chairmen present and past weren't offering alibis for how we arrived at this pass.

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | ecat : Economic News | gvexe : Executive Branch | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCFED | USG | NND | EDP | RNP   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument J000000020070917e39h00019  



 CLMAbreast of the Market   HDToo Much Hope May Be Pinned On Rate Cut   BYBy E.S. Browning    WC1,448 words   PD17 September 2007   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGA1   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 2007, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LPInvestors are putting a lot of hope in the Federal Reserve's ability to ride to the rescue tomorrow.

Maybe too much hope.
   TDThough the stock market surged last week on optimism that a widely expected interest-rate cut by the Fed would boost stocks, such a rate cut would offer little immediate help for the fundamental problems weighing on the nation's economy and financial markets. These include a worsening housing slump and high gasoline prices, which are damping consumer spending, and fears of further defaults on the billions of dollars of low-quality loans that have been used to finance mortgages and corporate takeovers.

Even if the Fed carries out a series of rate cuts, the economy and stock market are likely to be dealing with the fallout from these problems well into next year.

Financial markets view it as almost a certainty that the Fed will cut its target for short-term interest rates tomorrow, perhaps by as much as half a percentage point, in an effort to perk up credit markets and economic growth. It would be the first cut after 17 consecutive quarter-point increases that took rates from an exceptionally low 1% in June 2004 to 5.25% in June 2006, where they have remained since.

Based partly on the market's rapid recovery after Fed rate cuts during the 1998 credit crisis, many money managers are betting stocks will surge if the Fed cuts rates now. That helps explain last week's strong stock gains, including the week's 329.14-point, or 2.5%, rise in the Dow Jones Industrial Average to 13442.52.

But some economists worry that expectations have gotten out of hand. What ailed stocks in 1998 was the combination of Asian economic woes and a Russian debt default, which contributed to the near-collapse of a huge U.S. hedge fund, Long-Term Capital Management.

Unlike in 1998, when the real troubles were imported from abroad, today's problems are home-grown: the housing meltdown and the credit crunch that has followed.

Even if the Fed acts quickly and cuts rates more than once this year, as many economists now expect, the impact on the economy would be slow to take hold. Indeed, the housing crunch may get worse before it gets better. So, instead of taking off like a rocket, as it did when the Fed cut rates three times in the fall of 1998, the U.S. stock market may have to navigate more difficult seas.

"The bounce-back in the financial markets is probably going to be smaller than it was in 1998," when the Dow Jones industrials surged 20% from its close on Oct. 1 through the end of the year, says Jan Hatzius, chief U.S. economist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. "We should expect further problems in the financial markets from the housing troubles."

"In 1998, it was things that were happening halfway around the world. The crisis today is a reflection of a problem that is at the heart of the U.S. economy," Mr. Hatzius says. Today's trouble "is more serious than 1998, by a significant margin."

A survey of economists published last week by WSJ.com put the risk of a U.S. recession at 36%, up from 28% a month earlier. While most economists don't expect recession, they worry that the combined effects of the credit crunch and the housing mess will hold back consumer spending, business investment and corporate profits, which is bad news for stocks.

"The recession in housing shows no sign of ending, undercutting the momentum of the economy," says Ethan Harris, chief U.S. economist at Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. "We are likely to see consumer spending slow down." Because consumer spending accounts for more than two-thirds of U.S. economic activity, it is important to growth.

Mr. Harris sees economic growth bottoming out at an annual rate of about 1.5% or 2% in the first half of next year, down from a 4% rate in this year's second quarter. And that assumes that the Fed decides to pull out the stops and do everything it can to get things going again.

But, in general, investors appear to be more optimistic than economists. Nick Raich, director of research at Cleveland bank National City's private client group, which manages about $34 billion for wealthy investors, has seen home loans failing in his state. The overall foreclosure rate in Ohio is the highest in the nation, he says.

And yet, Mr. Raich believes that the stock market will be fine. He isn't counting on a quick U.S. economic recovery, but he believes that the Fed will restore investor confidence, and that the still-booming world economy will help keep the U.S. out of recession.

In May, National City warned clients about troubled markets to come and urged them to cut back on stock holdings. Last month, it told clients to step gingerly back into the market. Although corporate profits may come in a little weaker in future quarters than analysts currently expect, Mr. Raich says, he thinks stocks are headed higher.

"What's important is the Fed's willingness to indicate that it will do whatever it takes to keep us out of recession," he says. "A lot of our bullishness on stocks will not be because of the U.S. consumer, but because of global growth."

In the near term, however, the big problem is that it takes months for rate cuts to translate into economic growth, by affecting things such as investment, consumer spending and exports. In credit markets, some banks have become less willing to extend credit for purposes like takeover financing, because of a fear of default. A quarter-point or half-point change in base rates isn't going to change that very quickly.

What a Fed rate cut -- or a series of cuts -- could change quickly is investor psychology.

"I think this is more about confidence, the sense that somebody has got a hand on the tiller," says Mr. Harris of Lehman Brothers. If investors believe the Fed will do all it can to get credit markets going again and keep the housing market from pulling the economy into recession, they may be willing to bet on the future by buying stocks.

By the same token, if the economy or corporate earnings show signs of sluggishness later, investor confidence could wane. Tomorrow, Lehman Brothers is slated to kick off Wall Street's third-quarter earnings reports, to be followed later in the week by Morgan Stanley, Bear Stearns Cos. and Goldman Sachs.

Investors expect the big investment firms, which have been enormously profitable in recent years, to be hard hit by the turmoil in financial markets sparked by mounting defaults on subprime mortgages and the unwinding of the buyout boom, another cash cow for the industry.

While almost everyone expects a Fed rate cut tomorrow, prognosticators are divided about whether the Fed will cut by one-quarter percentage point or one-half percentage point. Regardless, many economists believe the Fed will have to cut rates again, perhaps more than once more, before markets and the economy are back on a stable path. Some think the Fed may have to keep cutting into 2008.

In 1998, the Fed cut rates three times before it was comfortable that it could stop. Then-Chairman Alan Greenspan signaled the first rate cut in advance, in a speech, and markets rose on that signal. The actual rate cut, however, disappointed some investors because it was only one-quarter point. The Fed cut rates twice more, by one-quarter point each time, including one cut made in between its regular policy meetings.Some economists fear markets could react negatively if tomorrow's cut is just a quarter point or if investors sense further cuts aren't imminent.

One problem is that some Fed policy makers still appear concerned about the risk of inflation, and it is uncertain how many times they will be willing to cut rates. During the first half of this year, overall inflation, including food and energy, was running at an annualized rate of 2.5%, down from 3.2% in 2006.

National City's Mr. Raich, however, thinks the Fed has leeway to act and restore confidence. "The key here is that core inflation has remained remarkably well contained," he says, "so it should give the Fed some wiggle room to sufficiently re-inflate the economy." 



License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | m11 : Equity Markets | npag : Page-One Story | ecat : Economic News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCPIC | STT | NND | TPX | ABS | MIM | PGO | TPT   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument J000000020070917e39h0001r  


 HDToday's Agenda   WC136 words   PD18 September 2007   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGA1   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 2007, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LPFed Expected to Cut Rates

To Ease Credit Turmoil
   TDFederal Reserve officials meet for a crucial policy decision and are likely to cut the key interest rate in an effort to calm turmoil in the credit markets and avoid a broader economic downturn. A cut of a quarter or half percentage point is expected. Announcement expected at 2:15 p.m. EDT.

August PPI Seen Slipping

On Lower Gasoline Prices

The U.S. producer-price index will give some clues about inflation. August PPI is expected to slip on lower gasoline prices, with economists forecasting a 0.3% decrease in the overall number. Labor Department report at 8:30 a.m. EDT

---

Lehman Brothers reports earnings. Countrywide Financial's CEO will speak at a conference.

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | npag : Page-One Story | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCBKG | CMR | FED | USG | FCL | NND | MNO   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument J000000020070918e39i0000l  



 SEThe Economy   HDDiscount Rate Is Also on the Fed's Table   BYBy Greg Ip    WC695 words   PD18 September 2007   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGA2   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 2007, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LPWASHINGTON -- When the Federal Reserve meets today, a cut in its main short-term interest-rate target, the federal-funds rate, won't be the only thing on the table. Officials will also have to decide what action to take on the lesser-known discount rate, at which banks borrow directly from the Fed.

Normally, banks pay a "penalty" to borrow from the Fed's discount window of one percentage point over the target for the federal-funds rate, at which banks lend to one another in a market heavily influenced by the Fed. Banks seldom borrow at the discount window because they can borrow federal funds more cheaply. The direct loans also have carried a stigma because they were often a last resort for troubled banks.
   TDOn Aug. 17, in a bid to improve the flow of cash to clogged credit markets, the Fed cut the discount rate to 5.75%, a penalty of half a percentage point above the 5.25% federal-funds target. It also extended the term of such loans to as long as 30 days from one day, and declared that using them would be regarded as a sign of strength, not weakness. Its hope was that banks would use discount loans, or the knowledge that they were available, to finance customer holdings of hard-to-sell securities such as asset-backed commercial paper and jumbo mortgages.

Many on Wall Street feel the Fed has yet to make the discount window attractive. The actual penalty, they note, is larger than the normal half point because the Fed has allowed the federal-funds rate to fall to 5%, a quarter point below its target. Many market participants recommend that the Fed cut the discount rate so it sits just a quarter point above the fed-funds rate or even matches it.

David Greenlaw, chief fixed-income economist at Morgan Stanley, said that while he doubts the Fed is about to make such a move, it could take the place of a deeper cut in the fed-funds rate that the Fed fears could look like a bailout of investors.

Peter Hooper, chief economist at Deutsche Bank Securities, said the Fed could compromise by cutting the fed-funds rate a quarter point and the discount rate a half point.

Mr. Hooper said the problem in the money markets is that banks, which normally lend and borrow for as long as 90 days, now do so for only a single day or a few days at a time. "It's difficult for banks to have to roll over all of their funds every day. It's manageable . . . but if something interrupts this funding, whether a crisis of confidence or because of a major failure, you're much closer to the edge." The Fed could limit that risk by encouraging banks to get 30-day discount loans.

Wall Street officials say they are still reluctant to borrow at the discount window because, if their identity became known, it could make counterparties skittish or hurt share prices. If the penalty were cut or eliminated, they say, banks could argue they were using the window because it was profitable.

Discount-window loans have typically been about a few hundred-million dollars each week. After the Fed's Aug. 17 changes, loans jumped to $2 billion, mostly the result of four banks each publicly announcing a $500 million loan in hopes of eradicating the stigma. Last week, the total jumped to $7 billion, which money-market participants attribute to a technical shortage of funds related to the Fed's management of bank-reserve balances.

That jump might reassure Fed officials that banks are overcoming the stigma of borrowing from the discount window, negating the need for lowering the penalty.

Officials also worry that cutting the discount rate too much would prompt many banks to fund all of their needs from the window instead of the money market. That could make it harder for the Fed to manage the fed-funds rate with open-market operations. 



License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | ecat : Economic News | gvexe : Executive Branch | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCPIC | FED | USG | NND | ECN | LMJ   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument J000000020070918e39i0000o  


 CLMAhead of the Tape   HDAhead of the Tape   BYBy Justin Lahart    WC609 words   PD18 September 2007   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGC1   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 2007, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LPSurprises Loom

Regardless
   TDOf Fed's Move

No matter what the Federal Reserve does, somebody is in for a surprise.

The Fed is expected to cut the target rate it sets for overnight loans between banks today, but by how much is an open question. Although most firms are looking for a quarter-point cut to 5%, a significant minority, including Goldman Sachs and Merrill Lynch, are looking for a half point. Futures that price off of interest-rate expectations suggest that investors are evenly divided between a quarter-point and a half-point reduction.

That means that if the central bank follows the base case, cutting by a quarter point, there will be plenty of investors who think it is behind the curve. If it cuts by a half-point, some Wall Streeters may worry that things are worse than they look. A half-point cut also would raise hackles among those who think the Fed shouldn't bail out speculators who took on too much risk and lost.

If the Fed cuts its overnight federal-funds target rate by a quarter point, it could cut the rate that it charges banks to borrow money at its discount window by more as a signal to market participants that it stands ready to prevent credit markets from seizing up. Many market participants expect a large discount-rate cut, but there is a caveat that the Fed might find too large to ignore: If such a cut leads to a substantial increase in borrowing at the discount window, the influx of cash onto banks' reserve balances could push the federal-funds rate well below its target.

Perhaps investors would be better off today by not overthinking about the Fed and instead ask the bigger question: Is the economy on the cusp of recession? If it is, there will be many more Fed cuts, and profit disappointments, to come. If it isn't, then it might be a fine time to buy.

Will Lehman's Earnings

Shed Light on Its LBO Debt?

LBO may soon become a four-letter word for Lehman Brothers Holdings.

The Wall Street firm is stuck with more leveraged-buyout debt, relative to its size, than any of its rivals, according to a study released last week by Fitch Ratings.

Lehman has committed to provide $29.4 billion of debt in connection with the top 20 pending LBOs, the Fitch study says. Though there are three other firms ahead of Lehman -- led by Citigroup -- they all are banks that have much larger balance sheets than the New York securities firm.

As a percentage of its shareholders' equity, Lehman's commitments on the same deals amount to a huge 140%. That is leaps and bounds ahead of the other Wall Street firms, none of which is even close to 100%. (The next largest is Deutsche Bank, at 75%.)

Fitch's numbers are estimates, as Lehman and the other banks have left the true size of their commitments to themselves. Fitch's view is consistent with the view of many on Wall Street that the collapse of the buyout-financing market will weigh more heavily on Lehman than on its peers.

Whether that assessment is fair or not, investors may finally find out this morning. That is when Lehman will report its third-quarter results. It also will answer investor questions on its first conference call since the storm in credit markets began this summer.

-- Dana Cimilluca

---

Email to justin.lahart@wsj.com and dana.cimilluca@wsj.com 



License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCBKG | CMR | PIC | FED | USG | FCL | NND | TPX | AOT | TFR   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument J000000020070918e39i0001r  


 HDTop Stories in Asia Wednesday Sep 19 & the US Tuesday Sep 18      WC1,346 words   PD19 September 2007   ET09:31   SNMarket News International   SCMARNEW   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007. Market News International, Inc.   
   TD

*    [BOJ Stands Pat] The Bank of Japan on Wednesday said its 
nine-member policy board voted 8-1 to maintain the target for the 
overnight call rate at 0.5% amid concerns that the US subprime mortgage 
lending and debt investment woes could hurt a broader economy. The BOJ 
issued a brief statement on its "no change" decision at the end of a 
regular two-day policy-setting meeting following a sharp 50 basis point 
cut by the US Federal Reserve in key interest rates. Board member 
Atsushi Mizuno voted against leaving short-term interest rates 
unchanged, the BOJ said. 

*    [HKMA Follows Fed's Cut] The Hong Kong Monetary Authority (HKMA) 
has cut the base rate for its discount window by 50 basis points to 
6.25%, following the US Federal Reserve's cut in the federal funds rate. 
The HKMA generally follows the Fed's interest rate adjustments, because 
Hong Kong's currency is pegged to the US dollar. The HKMA base rate is 
the reference rate for lending overnight funds to local banks through 
its discount window.

*    [Japan Stocks End Sharply Higher] Japanese stock indices ended 
Wednesday's session sharply higher, boosted by the overnight Fed rate 
cut and subsequent Wall St rally. The benchmark Nikkei 225 was higher by 
579.74 points, or 3.67%, at 16301.54. The broader-based TOPIX was up 
56.63 points at 1567.58.

*    [Greenback Modestly Lower In Narrow Ranges] The greenback was 
modestly lower across the board in Asian trade Weds, although largely 
tied to narrow trading ranges. With the Fed cutting 50 bps and the BOJ 
standing pat, dollar--yen traded in a Y115.75/116.08 range, was close to 
the middle of the range at Y115.90. Euro-dollar was unable to break out 
of a $1.3965/85 range, last trading at $1.3975.

*    [China 7-Day Repo At Fresh High] The daily fixing for the seven-day 
repurchase agreement rate hit a new record high on Wednesday as share 
offerings continued to squeeze liquidity at the short-end of the curve. 
The seven-day fixing repo rate was set at a new record of 6.4589% on 
Wednesday, compared with Tuesday's record 5.9523%. Today's fixing marks 
the fourth record high in as many days, the most market-determined 
short-term interest rate in China.

*    [BOJ Leaves Econ View Unchanged] The Japanese economy is expected 
to stay on a "moderate" growth track under price stability, the Bank of 
Japan said in a monthly report on Wednesday, the comments coming despite 
market concerns that the US subprime mortgage problems could cause a US 
recession. The economy is expected to "continue expanding moderately," 
backed by solid domestic demand and exports overall, the BOJ concluded, 
repeating its view from previous months. 

*    [Japan Dept Store Sales Up In Aug]  Japanese department store sales 
rose 1.4% from a year earlier to Y520.8 billion in August, rising for 
the first time in two months, as fine weather and warmer temperature 
supported sales of summer items, the Japan Department Stores Association 
said Wednesday. In June, department store sales rose 5.5% year-on-year, 
the first time sales have risen more than 5% since April 1998.

[In The US] 
*    Third-quarter earnings from Wall Street giant  Lehman Brothers 
(LEH) surprised to the upside Tuesday, which allowed credit default 
swaps on financials to outperform again. For the second consecutive 
session, financials outperformed, aided by LEH's third-quarter report of 
$2.4 billion in net revenues, a decrease of 14% from the same quarter 
2006. Lehman's Fixed Income Capital Markets reported net revenues of 
$1.1 billion, a decrease of 47% from $2.0 billion in the third quarter 
of fiscal year 2006, primarily due to lower performances within Credit 
and Securitized Products. 

*    Prices of fed fund futures reflected one more 25 basis point rate 
cut in the Fed funds target by year-end Tuesday afternoon after the 
Federal Open Market Committee unanimously voted to shave both the 
federal funds target and the discount rate by 50 bps. The more dramatic 
decrease in the Fed funds target was not widely expected by the bond 
market as binary options on the Fed funds suggested only a 25% chance of 
such an occurrence prior to the meeting results.  

*    Early in the U.S. trading day the August Producer Price Index 
was reported down 1.4% overall, but core rose 0.2%, leaving 
year-over-year rates lower at 2.2% overall and also 2.2% core as last 
summer's bad readings dropped out. Overall PPI was lowered by a 6.6% 
drop in energy as all components fell, and a 0.2% drop food as 
vegetables fell 6.0%, eggs fell 12.0%, and pork prices fell 2.3%. In 
core, pharmaceuticals rose 1.3% (its biggest gain since 1.4% in January 
2007), aircraft rose 0.9%, and cars rose 0.5% (new models) boosted the 
total. 

*    Late in the day the U.S. ABC News/Washington Post Consumer Comfort 
Index came in at -15 in the Sept. 16 week vs. -17 in the prior week. The 
National Economic Index was -28 vs -32 and Personal Finances was 14 vs. 
8 in the prior week. The Buying Climate index was -32 vs -28. 

*    In Tuesday's U.S. TICs data, July net purchases of long-term 
securities were just $19.2 billion, falling well short of the amount 
needed to cover the monthly trade deficit as flows possibly began to 
reflect the early impact of subprime mortgage concerns. Monthly net TIC 
flows were $103.8 billion as short-term US security holdings rose $66.6 
billion with foreign holdings of T-Bills increasing by $18.7 billion. 

*    The NAHB/Wells Housing Market Index dropped two points to 20 in 
September, in its 7th drop and tying its record low reached in January 
1991 (the series began in January 1985). "Concerns about the substantial 
inventory of new homes for sale and the effects that deepening mortgage 
market problems are having on buyer demand caused builder confidence to 
decline" the National Association of Homebuilders said. 
 
*    In U.S. stocks Tuesday, the Dow industrials rocketed up after the 
Fed decision by 335.07 points or 2.51% while the Nasdaq composite rose 
70.00 or 2.71% to 2,651.66. The S&P 500 rose 43.13 or 2.92% to 1,519.78. 

*    Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke and his fellow monetary 
policymakers chose to ease credit aggressively Tuesday, but they left in 
doubt whether there will be more rate cuts to come. The Fed's 
rate-setting Federal Open Market Committee slashed the key federal funds 
rate, at which banks borrow reserves from each other overnight, by 50 
basis points to 4.75% --  more than expected and the first rate cut in 
more than four years. Simultaneously, the Federal Reserve Board cut the 
discount rate, at which banks borrow from the Fed, by 50 basis points to 
5.25%. The combination of aggressive rate action and the lack of an 
overt easing bias suggests a compromise among committee members. Some 
apparently were willing to ease somewhat preemptively to insure against 
undue weakness but were not willing to presume that additional easing, 
as desired by some observers, will be necessary. 

*    In the "constantly evolving" asset management industry, managers 
should pay careful attention to counterparty risk and employ sound 
practices to manage risk, a top U.S. Treasury official said Tuesday. 
Addressing a Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association 
conference in Boston, Treasury Assistant Secretary for Financial Markets 
Anthony Ryan said in his prepared remarks, "We should acknowledge that 
the risks are many. They range beyond volatility to include valuation, 
liquidity, credit, operational risk and reputation risk." 

*    With a benign inflation outlook and solid growth prospects, there 
is scope for further interest rate cuts in Brazil, the International 
Monetary Fund said Tuesday in its annual Article IV review of the 
Brazilian economy.   
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | nsum : News Digest | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | niwe : IWE Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBMarket News International, Inc.   ANDocument MARNEW0020070919e39j000gf  



 HD Federal Reserve  slashes  interest rate  by a half-point; market soars      BYBy JEANNINE AVERSA      CRAP Economics Writer   WC1,067 words   PD18 September 2007   ET23:30   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPWASHINGTON (AP) - It took more than four years, but borrowers finally got some interest rate relief.   

In a bold strike, the Federal Reserve slashed a key interest rate by a half percentage point on Tuesday and left the door open to further rate cuts to prevent a painful housing slump and jarring credit crunch from driving the country into recession.   
   TDWall Street responded enthusiastically, propelling stocks up 335.97 points -- its biggest one-day point jump in nearly five years. Politicians, shaken by record-high home foreclosures, also welcomed the move.   

In a crucial and anxiously awaited decision, Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke and his central bank colleagues lowered an important interest rate to 4.75 percent. Economic and political pressure has been building on the Fed to act.   

As a result, commercial banks' prime lending rate charged to millions of borrowers dropped by a corresponding amount to 7.75 percent.   

Whether Bernanke can handle the crisis is the biggest challenge he has faced in his 19 months at the Fed helm.   

"Today's action is intended to help forestall some of the adverse effects on the broader economy that might otherwise arise from the disruptions in financial markets and to promote moderate growth over time," the Fed said in a statement released after its closed-door meeting.   

The last time the Fed cut rates was in late June 2003.   

Its action means borrowers who can obtain credit should see rates drop on a variety of loans. It will become less expensive for people to finance certain credit card debt and for homeowners to take out popular home equity lines of credit, which often are used to pay for education, home improvements or medical bills.   

It also will help some homeowners whose adjustable rate mortgages reset in the fall. Those rates will still go up but not by as much as they otherwise could have, analysts said.   

Less immediate will be relief for the country's economic health. The rate reduction could take three to nine months to ripple through the economy and bolster overall activity.   

The aggressive action underscored the Fed's resolve.   

"The Fed has rolled out the heavy artillery here. Bernanke is not being timid," said Brian Bethune, economist at Global Insight. "The Fed has seen the problems. It is not trying to put out a forest fire with a bucket of water," he said.   

Bethune and some other analysts predict the Fed will lower rates again -- probably by a more modest one-quarter percentage point -- at its next meeting in October. Another rate reduction could come in December, the last meeting of this year, if the economy falters.   

But economist Richard Yamarone of Argus Research is in the camp that no more help will be needed. "It is one and they are done," he predicted.   

The Fed's economic assessment was somber.   

"The tightening of credit conditions has the potential to intensify the housing correction and to restrain economic growth more generally, " the Fed said.   

Fears that the troubled housing market and credit problems could short-circuit the six-year-old economic expansion have shaken Wall Street. Financial turmoil has intensified since the Fed's last scheduled meeting in early August.   

The biggest worry is that people and businesses will cut back on their spending and investment, throwing the economy into a tailspin. Tuesday's rate cut is aimed at making sure that doesn't happen.   

"By going with a half-point reduction, Bernanke is eschewing a gradualistic approach. The patient -- the economy -- has a bad flu and you don't want it to turn into pneumonia. So you don't want to mess around," said Terry Connelly, dean of Golden Gate University's Ageno School of Business.   

The situation for the Fed could become tricky.   

"Some inflation risks remain," Fed policymakers said. There have been some inflation improvements. Wholesale prices fell 1.4 percent in August, the government reported Tuesday. But threats remain: Oil prices climbed to a new high on Tuesday, above $81 a barrel.   

The Fed left the door open to its next rate move, saying it will "act as needed to foster price stability and sustainable economic growth."   

Ex Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan, in an interview Monday with The Associated Press, said the odds of a recession are growing.   

"Obviously the odds have moved up to more than a third, but I doubt if we are anywhere near 50 percent yet." Earlier this year, his prediction of a one-in-three chance of a recession caused Wall Street to nosedive.   

Analysts expect the economy to slow to a rate of about 2 percent in the current July-to-September quarter. That would be just half the rate of the previous three months. Growth in the final three months of this year could turn out even weaker.   

The free flow of credit is important to the smooth functioning of the national economy. If credit becomes too difficult to get, it can put a damper on peoples' ability to buy big-ticket items such as homes, cars and appliances. And it can crimp businesses' capital investment and hiring.   

Employers cut 4,000 jobs in August, the first time the economy has lost jobs in four years. The unemployment rate, now at 4.6 percent, is expected to climb close to 5 percent by the year's end.   

The worst housing slump in 16 years is being painfully felt. Higher interest rates squeezed homeowners, especially "subprime" borrowers with blemished credit or low incomes. Foreclosures set records and late payments spiked. Lenders were forced out of business. Hedge funds and other investors in subprime-related mortgage securities got clobbered.   

The credit crisis spread beyond the subprime market to more creditworthy borrowers.   

Bernanke and his colleagues were accused of being behind the curve when they held their key interest rate steady at 5.25 percent at their last meeting on Aug. 7. Just days later the Fed was forced to pump billions of dollars into the U.S. financial system to get institutions over the credit hump. Then on Aug. 17 the Fed took even more aggressive action and cut its lending rate for banks. The Fed on Tuesday lowered that lending rate again.   

------   

On the Net:   

Federal Reserve:   http://www.federalreserve.gov/  
   RF7   ARTimage image      NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagdsp | sel----- | catw   IPDAP National News | Washington | Fed Interest Rates Optional | D8RO47R00   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020070918e39i003jd  



 HDTop Stories in Europe, Wednesday Sept. 19      WC957 words   PD19 September 2007   ET13:13   SNMarket News International   SCMARNEW   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007. Market News International, Inc.   
   TD

*     [BOE Moves To Alleviate Strains In Longer-Maturity Money Market] 
The Bank of England announced today that it will provide the 
money markets with additional three-month liquidity via a series of four 
weekly auctions, with the first taking place next week. 
The BOE said that the funds are designed to "alleviate the strains 
in longer-maturity money markets" and that the first auction would be 
worth Stg10 billion. Three further auctions will follow that at weekly 
intervals, the BOE stated. 

*     [Dutch Cbank: Hard To Say If Emu GDP Has Peaked Or Just Paused] It 
is not yet evident whether the slowdown of growth in the second quarter 
was a temporary development or an indication that the eurozone economic 
upswing has run out of steam, the Dutch National Bank wrote in its 
quarterly bulletin, released Wednesday. The central bank, headed by 
Governing Council member Nout Wellink, also wrote that inflation risks 
remain despite the dampening effect of a strong euro. 

*      [Euro-Dollar Consolidates Gains In Wake Of Fed Rate Cut] 
After making record highs in the wake of the Fed rate cut on Tuesday, 
euro-dollar consolidated gains on Wednesday morning, easing to late 
session lows under $1.3950. Attention remains fixed on the $1.4000 level 
which holds significant option barriers, traders saying offers ahead are 
preventing further gains for now. Dollar-yen was again sidelined, little 
changed after the BOJ voted 8-1 to leave interest rates on hold 
overnight. 

*      [USTs Lower As Post-FOMC Profit-Taking Weighs] U.S. 
Treasuries are trading lower across the curve in London Wednesday, as 
the market takes profits on gains in the wake  of the Federal Reserve's 
50 bps rate cut Tuesday. While not completely out of left field, the 
Fed's 50bps cut in the Fed Funds rate certainly boosted shorter-dated 
Treasuries overnight, triggering sellers into the strength in both Asia 
and London. 


*     [Germany Bank Economists Up 2007 And 2008 GDP Growth Forecasts] 
The economic panel of the German Banking Association (BDB) -- consisting 
of the chief economists of ten leading private banks in Germany -- on 
Wednesday raised its forecast for German economic growth this year and 
next, arguing that the real economy won't be hit by the current credit 
crisis. The economists upped their 2007 German GDP forecast to +2.5% 
from the +2.1% forecast in April. Their 2008 GDP projection was hiked to 
+2.0% from +1.9%.           

[In Asia]     

*    [BOJ Stands Pat] The Bank of Japan on Wednesday said its 
nine-member policy board voted 8-1 to maintain the target for the 
overnight call rate at 0.5% amid concerns that the US subprime mortgage 
lending and debt investment woes could hurt a broader economy. The BOJ 
issued a brief statement on its "no change" decision at the end of a 
regular two-day policy-setting meeting following a sharp 50 basis point 
cut by the US Federal Reserve in key interest rates. Board member 
Atsushi Mizuno voted against leaving short-term interest rates 
unchanged, the BOJ said. 

*    [HKMA Follows Fed's Cut] The Hong Kong Monetary Authority (HKMA) 
has cut the base rate for its discount window by 50 basis points to 
6.25%, following the US Federal Reserve's cut in the federal funds rate. 
The HKMA generally follows the Fed's interest rate adjustments, because 
Hong Kong's currency is pegged to the US dollar. The HKMA base rate is 
the reference rate for lending overnight funds to local banks through 
its discount window.

*    [Japan Stocks End Sharply Higher] Japanese stock indices ended 
Wednesday's session sharply higher, boosted by the overnight Fed rate 
cut and subsequent Wall St rally. The benchmark Nikkei 225 was higher by 
579.74 points, or 3.67%, at 16301.54. The broader-based TOPIX was up 
56.63 points at 1567.58.

*    [Greenback Modestly Lower In Narrow Ranges] The greenback was 
modestly lower across the board in Asian trade Weds, although largely 
tied to narrow trading ranges. With the Fed cutting 50 bps and the BOJ 
standing pat, dollar--yen traded in a Y115.75/116.08 range, was close to 
the middle of the range at Y115.90. Euro-dollar was unable to break out 
of a $1.3965/85 range, last trading at $1.3975.

*    [China 7-Day Repo At Fresh High] The daily fixing for the seven-day 
repurchase agreement rate hit a new record high on Wednesday as share 
offerings continued to squeeze liquidity at the short-end of the curve. 
The seven-day fixing repo rate was set at a new record of 6.4589% on 
Wednesday, compared with Tuesday's record 5.9523%. Today's fixing marks 
the fourth record high in as many days, the most market-determined 
short-term interest rate in China.

*    [BOJ Leaves Econ View Unchanged] The Japanese economy is expected 
to stay on a "moderate" growth track under price stability, the Bank of 
Japan said in a monthly report on Wednesday, the comments coming despite 
market concerns that the US subprime mortgage problems could cause a US 
recession. The economy is expected to "continue expanding moderately," 
backed by solid domestic demand and exports overall, the BOJ concluded, 
repeating its view from previous months. 

*    [Japan Dept Store Sales Up In Aug]  Japanese department store sales 
rose 1.4% from a year earlier to Y520.8 billion in August, rising for 
the first time in two months, as fine weather and warmer temperature 
supported sales of summer items, the Japan Department Stores Association 
said Wednesday. In June, department store sales rose 5.5% year-on-year, 
the first time sales have risen more than 5% since April 1998.
                                          

[TOPICS: MNSTNB,MBU$$$]   
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | e1101 : Economic Growth | nsum : News Digest | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | niwe : IWE Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBMarket News International, Inc.   ANDocument MARNEW0020070919e39j000k3  



 HDChina Ex-PBOC Advisor: Narrowing Rate Gap To Hit Yuan      WC314 words   PD17 September 2007   ET10:25   SNMarket News International   SCMARNEW   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007. Market News International, Inc.   
   TD

     BEIJING (MNI) - A narrowing China-US interest rate gap will add 
pressure on the yuan to appreciate, a leading Chinese government 
economist and former adviser to the central bank said Monday. 

     Yu Yongding, a former member of central bank's monetary policy 
committee and economist at the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, told 
a conference here that the central bank should continue with its modest 
but frequent interest rate increases to tackle inflation. 

     But he also warned of the impact that these will have on interest 
rate differentials between China and the U.S. 

     "China's real interest rate is rising and that will narrow China-US 
rate gap, putting pressure on yuan appreciation," Yu said at a forum in 
Beijing. 

     The People's  Bank of China announced on Friday the fifth interest 
rate hike this year by 27 basis points for both lending rates and 
deposit rates. 

     The U.S. Federal Reserve is expected to cut interest rates this 
week, further narrowing the rate gap. 

     The PBOC has been using the rate gap to deter speculative fund 
inflows and ease yuan appreciation pressure since 2005, the year that 
exchange rate reforms were launched. 

     The gap -- as measured by yields on one-year sterilization paper 
issued by the PBOC and the equivalent U.S. dollar LIBOR -- has shrunk 
from around 330 basis points to 180 basis points. 

     A PBOC official told Market News International in July this year 
that a few hundred basis points in the rate gap isn't important compared 
to the hefty gains to be made investing in Chinese equities or real 
estate. 
                                     
     Yu also said that the U.S. subprime crisis will have a large impact 
on Chinese exports, without elaborating. 

                       beijing@marketnews.com
** Market News International Beijing Newsroom: 86-10-5864-5241 ** 

[TOPICS: M$Q$$$,MMQPB$,M$A$$$]   
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REchina : China | usa : United States | asiaz : Asia | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America   PUBMarket News International, Inc.   ANDocument MARNEW0020070917e39h0004r  



 HDUS Sen Schumer:'Worst Is Still Yet To Come'in Subprime Crisis      WC507 words   PD19 September 2007   ET17:00   SNMarket News International   SCMARNEW   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007. Market News International, Inc.   
   TD
--Joint Economic Panel Chief 'Welcomes' Fed Rate Cut
--Fed Actions Suggests They See Economy 'In Trouble'
--Policymakers 'Don't Appreciate Seriousness' of Economic Woes
--CBO Chief Orszag: Economic Outlook 'Particularly Uncertain Right Now'
--CBO's Orszag: 'Sluggish' Economic Growth 'Most Likely Scenario'
 
By John Shaw

     WASHINGTON (MNI) - Joint Economic Committee Chairman Chuck Schumer 
said Wednesday that the crisis in the subprime mortgage market is a 
"contagion that has spread to all sectors of the economy." 

     In his statement at the start of a hearing on the subprime crisis, 
Schumer said, "the worst is still yet to come" as the riskiest subprime 
loans will begin to be reset in a weak housing market over the coming 
months. 

     "Most economists have lowered their already weak expectations about 
GDP growth even further. For the first time in years, the 'R word' -- 
recession -- is still being discussed far and wide as a real 
possibility," Schumer said. 

     Schumer said the aggressive interest rate cuts by the Federal 
Reserve Board Tuesday is a "welcome indication" that the Fed realizes 
the risks facing the U.S. economy. 

     "When a conservative Fed drops the interest rate this much, it is 
obvious that they believe the economy is in trouble," he added. 

     Schumer blasted the White House for moving too slowly and timidly 
to respond the subprime crisis and its aftershocks. 

     "I fear that we still don't appreciate the seriousness of the 
problem we are facing. Our policy responses are not matching the 
magnitude of the risk that lies ahead," he said. 

     Congressional Budget Office Director Peter Orszag told the panel 
that the subprime crisis has injected turbulence into the U.S. economy, 
adding that "the economic outlook is thus particularly uncertain right 
now." 

     He said that while some analysts have voiced fear about a coming 
recession he believes the "most likely scenario" is "continued (albeit 
more sluggish) economic growth." 

     The House Financial Services Committee holds a high profile hearing 
Thursday with Federal Reserve Board Chairman Ben Bernanke and Treasury 
Secretary Henry Paulson testifying. 

     The panel will also hear from Daniel Mudd, CEO of Fannie Mae, and 
Richard Syron, CEO of  Freddie Mac. 

     The chairman of the panel, Rep. Barney Frank, has said the hearing 
will examine President Bush's recently announced plan to expand FHA 
programs and to review other options for assisting homeowners at risk of 
foreclosure. 

     In other comments Wednesday, Sen. Schumer responded to the Office 
of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight's plan to ease Fannie Mae's 
portfolio cap by 2%:

     "Now that OFHEO has put its toe in the water, it is time to jump 
in. The GSEs certainly need more room to grow their mortgage portfolios, 
as I have been saying all along. But an increase this small doesn't 
respect the magnitude of this crisis. Hopefully this rigid, 
ideologically driven opposition to raising the caps is about to fade," 
Schumer said.

   ** Market News International Washington Bureau: 202-371-2121 **

[TOPICS: M$U$$$,MFU$$$,MCU$$$,M$$AG$]   
   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | e1101 : Economic Growth | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBMarket News International, Inc.   ANDocument MARNEW0020070919e39j000o2  



 HDDollar Bank cuts key  interest rate  after  Federal Reserve  decision      WC126 words   PD18 September 2007   ET22:20   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPNEW YORK (AP) - Dollar Bank on Tuesday lowered its prime rate one-half of one percentage point after the Federal Reserve cut its key interest rate.   

Dollar Bank said its prime rate is now 7.75 percent. The Fed cut the federal funds rate, which is what banks charge each other for overnight loans, to 4.75 percent from 5.25 percent previously.   
   TDThe prime rate is what banks charge their best customers, and serves as the benchmark for lending rates to all customers for mortgages, credit cards and other products.   

Most banks typically raise or lower their prime rate by an amount equal to the Fed's rate action within minutes of its decision.   
   RF7   INi81501 : Credit Types/Services | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagapf | selapfin | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | APFN Dollar Bank Prime Rate | D8RO36UG1   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020070918e39i0039d  



 HDKeyCorp cuts key  interest rate  to 7.75 percent after  Federal Reserve  decision      WC135 words   PD18 September 2007   ET20:44   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPNEW YORK (AP) - KeyCorp on Tuesday lowered its prime rate by one-half of a percentage point after the Federal Reserve cut its key interest rate.   

Cleveland-based KeyCorp said its prime rate is now 7.75 percent, down from 8.25 percent.   
   TDThe Fed cut the federal funds rate, which is what banks charge each other for overnight loans, to 4.75 percent from 5.25 percent previously.   

The prime rate is what banks charge their best customers, and serves as the benchmark for lending rates to all customers for mortgages, credit cards and other products.   

Most banks typically raise or lower their prime rate by an amount equal to the Fed's rate action within minutes of its decision.   
   RF5   INi81501 : Credit Types/Services | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagapf | selapfin | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | APFN KeyCorp Prime Rate | D8RO1PT81   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020070918e39i002y1  



 HDTV tonight/tomorrow      WC606 words   PD18 September 2007   ET23:47   SNReuters Washington Daybook Report   SCREUTWR   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007 Reuters Limited   
   LP
      The Reuters Television Daybook
        Tonight and tomorrow
              -----
   The TV daybook editor is Timothy Ryan
(Tim.Ryan@Reuters.com).
   If you have information for the daybook or any questions,
please call 202-898-8345 or fax 202-898-8401.
   Subscribers: Call the Reuters editorial helpdesk at
1-888-319-5219 for any problems in receiving daybook content.
   -----
   -----


  ************************
            Tonight
  ************************
   

4 p.m. -- YOUR WORLD WITH NEIL CAVUTO (FOX NEWS CHANNEL):   
   TDAn interview with former Federal Reserve Board Chairman Alan Greenspan.   

6 p.m. -- THE NEWS HOUR WITH JIM LEHRER (MPT):   

The Federal Reserve cut a key interest rate Tuesday, the first reduction in the federal funds rate in four years. Ray Suarez reports on the Fed's decision to cut interest rates and the potential impact. Then, Suarez speaks with guests including: Bill Cheney, chief economist at  John Hancock Financial Services; and, Philip Jefferson, a former Fed economist who is now a professor of economics at Swarthmore College.   

The NewsHour's Economics Correspondent Paul Solman will be participating in a new insider forum at the Online NewsHour. He will be answering viewer questions about Tuesday's interest rate cut and how it will affect the economy and personal finances. Please click the link below to participate and submit your questions.   

Judy Woodruff reports on security contractors in Iraq after one firm was implicated in the fatal shooting of Iraqi civilians over the weekend. Then, Woodruff speaks with guests including: Jeremy Scahill, a writer for The Nation magazine and the radio program Democracy Now, as well as author of "Blackwater: the Rise of the World's Most Powerful Mercenary Army"; and, Doug Brooks, founder and president of the International Peace Operations Association, a trade organization for military services companies.   

Special Correspondent Fred de Sam Lazaro reports on one man's work helping homeless kids.   

Part I of an interview with former Federal Reserve Board Chairman Alan Greenspan.   

6:30 p.m. -- NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT (PBS/WETA):   

Reports on the following headlines:   

"U.S. stocks shot higher following today's unexpectedly aggressive move by the Federal Reserve. The Federal Open Market Committee unanimously voted to cut the federal funds and discount rate by half a percentage point. New York bureau chief Scott Gurvey has the story and the reaction."   

"With more on today's FOMC move, anchor Suzanne Pratt talks live with Michele Girard, senior economist at Greenwich Capital Management; and Hugh Johnson, chairman at Johnson Illington Advisors."   

"The U.S. House of Representatives today made its first major move in reaction to this summer's mortgage meltdown. Washington bureau chief Darren Gersh has the details."   

"In the "Of Mutual Interest" segment, correspondent Erika Miller looks at "spiders" on Wall Street - securities similar to indexed mutual funds."   

"Tonight's commentary has some thoughts on shareholder rights - with Harvey Pitt, CEO of Kalorama Partners and former Chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission."   

6:30 p.m. -- ABC WORLD NEWS TONIGHT (ABC):   

Reports on the following headlines:   

"The Federal Reserve cut interest rates today for the first time in more than four years. This move comes as foreclosures on American homes are at an all-time high. Could a cut in interest rates help solve the housing mess?"   

"A study out today finds that Americans on average waste an entire workweek a year sitting in traffic. Congestion is also costing the nation an estimated $78 billion annually."    


  ************************
         Tomorrow
  ************************
   

8 p.m. -- THE CAFERTY FILE (CNN):   

A special edition as CNN's Jack Caferty takes viewer email and interviews Whoopi Goldberg.   

-----   

-----   

The Reuters Television Daybook   

Tonight and tomorrow   

REUTERS   
   RFDAYBOOK-TELEVISION-SEP18-19|LANGEN|REUWW   COjnhnfn : John Hancock Financial Services Inc | manli : Manulife Financial Corporation   INi831 : Financial Investments | iinv : Investing/Securities   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | gtvrad : Television/Radio | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gent : Arts/Entertainment   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument REUTWR0020070918e39i0005y  



 HDTop Stories in the US, Europe and Asia Wednesday, Sept 19      WC1,559 words   PD20 September 2007   ET01:12   SNMarket News International   SCMARNEW   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007. Market News International, Inc.   
   TD

*    Prices of U.S. Treasuries fell in the longer end in U.S. hours 
Wednesday while shorter Treasuries outperformed amid  2-year/10-year 
steepeners being gone for a second day, said traders. That followed a 
huge steepening move on Tuesday after the Fed cut the fed funds rate and 
discount rates by 50 bps. 

*    The dollar ended about unchanged vs. the euro in the U.S. 
Wednesday session but with slight gains vs. the yen as global equity 
strength on the day continued as a key driver of trade. Euro-dollar 
traded at $1.3962, not much changed from the $1.3956 marked at the start 
of the day but with the greenback still on the defensive following U.S. 
interest rate cuts announced Tuesday by the Federal Open Market 
Committee. Dollar-yen meantime held in a Y115.82-Y116.33 range on the 
day. 

*    In U.S. stocks Wednesday, the Dow Jones industrials not only held 
on to Tuesday's outsized gains but tacked on another 76.17 to finish at 
13,815.56. The Nasdaq composite rose 14.82 or 0.56% to end at 2,666.48. 
The S&P 500 rose 9.25 at 1,529.03. 

*    Fixed income option flows were fairly languid but still favored 
bull bias structures Wednesday, the session after the Fed surprised 
financial markets with a greater than expected 50 bps funds and discount 
rate cut, as various accounts dialed in more specific strategies to 
accomodate.

*    At-the-money straddle swaption premium cratered Wednesday, 
adjusting after a relatively muted reaction late Tuesday after the Fed 
surprised financial markets with a 50 bps funds and discount rate cut.  

*    U.S. swap spreads continued to improve in the session after the 
Fed surprised some by cutting funds and the discount rate by 50 bps 
each, with Wednesday's flows largely two-way in addition to decent 
corporate supply-tied hedges. Spreads remain improved, though off 
initially tighter levels as flows turned largely two-way in the New York 
session after decent two-way in 10-years from Asian accounts and 
servicer receiving. 

*    Tuesday's 50 basis point rate cut in the Fed funds target by the 
Federal Reserve continued to bolster Credit Default Swaps Wednesday as 
liquidy risk was mitigated. "This is all the Fed," one portfolio manager 
said of the rapid fire tightening in CDS spreads. He lamented though 
that the move was not without extreme volatility. 

*    The August U.S. Consumer Price Index slipped 0.1%, but core rose 
0.2%, much as expected. Energy prices fell 3.2% as natural gas and 
gasoline prices fell. Food prices rose 0.4% on jumps in dairy and fresh 
fruit prices. In core, apparel was down 0.5% and new vehicles rose a 
modest 0.1%, but medical care rose 0.5% on higher drug and hospital 
costs and Owner Equivalent Rent rose 0.2%. The latter two have much 
larger weights.

*    August U.S. housing starts fell 2.6% to a 1.331 million 
seasonally adjusted annual rate, below the 1.360 million rate expected 
and following downward revisions to the previous two months and at the 
lowest since June 1995. Permits fell 5.9% to a 1.307 million rate in 
August, also the lowest since June 1995, while homes permitted but not 
started fell 0.9%.   

*    After three months of substantial growth, the U.S. 
Architecture Billings Index (ABI) in August receded to a figure more in 
line with the scores seen throughout the spring. As a leading economic 
indicator of construction activity, the ABI shows an approximate nine- 
to 12-month lag time between architecture billings and construction 
spending. The American Institute of Architects (AIA) reported the August 
ABI rating was 53.9, down significantly from the near record 60.0 in 
July (any score above 50 indicates an increase in billings). 

*    Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke will have the 
opportunity to further explain the Fed's decision to cut interest rates 
sharply when he testifies on Capitol Hill Thursday morning. Bernanke 
will appear jointly with Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson and the heads 
of Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac, before a House Financial Services 
Committee hearing on the subprime mortgage situation. The committee will 
be seeking an assessment from Bernanke and its other witnesses of just 
how bad the mortgage market remains and when recovery can be expected. 

*    U.S. Treasury Hank Paulson Wednesday came out formally in support 
of the EU's candidate to take over as head of the International Monetary 
Fund, continuing the tradition of supporting a European to head the fund 
while an American runs the World Bank. 

*    U.S. Treasury's Paulson announced Wednesday that the 
government will hit the statutory debt limit Oct. 1, and in a letter to 
Senate leadership and key committee chairs urged the Senate to increase 
the debt ceiling. He said failure to do so could create uncertainty in 
the Treasuries market that could exacerbate the recent market turmoil. 
Previously, the Treasury had said only that the government would bump up 
against the debt limit in early October. 

*    U.S. OFHEO Director James Lockhart announced Wednesday that 
OFHEO is providing Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac with additional 
flexibility in managing their mortgage portfolios to comply with the 
portfolio caps agreed to last year. These changes will make it easier 
for the Enterprises to manage market-based fluctuations in their 
portfolios and reduce the need to keep large cushions below the 
portfolio caps, said Lockhart. The new flexibility allows portfolion 
growth of about 3% a year. 

*    A slowing of inflation in Canada and the soaring Canadian dollar 
have had commentators Wednesday saying the two factors should calm 
inflation concerns at the  Bank of Canada and forestall any rate hikes. A 
study out in the afternoon by TD Economics, however, warns not to count 
on it. Canadian consumer prices dropped sharply in August to a 1.7% 
year-over-year rate, following four consecutive months at 2.2% -- over 
the  Bank of Canada's 2% inflation target, the CPI report earlier in the 
day showed. The core rate fell slightly, to 2.2% from 2.3% in July. 

*    Mexico's bond markets have been startled by the U.S. subprime 
home loan crisis, but market participants are confident the market is 
still open even for real estate-backed debt, the area which would 
logically see the most contagion.

Europe

*     [BOE Moves To Alleviate Strains In Longer-Maturity Money Market] 
The Bank of England announced today that it will provide the 
money markets with additional three-month liquidity via a series of four 
weekly auctions, with the first taking place next week. 
The BOE said that the funds are designed to "alleviate the strains 
in longer-maturity money markets" and that the first auction would be 
worth Stg10 billion. Three further auctions will follow that at weekly 
intervals, the BOE stated. 

*     [Dutch Cbank: Hard To Say If Emu GDP Has Peaked Or Just Paused] It 
is not yet evident whether the slowdown of growth in the second quarter 
was a temporary development or an indication that the eurozone economic 
upswing has run out of steam, the Dutch National Bank wrote in its 
quarterly bulletin, released Wednesday. The central bank, headed by 
Governing Council member Nout Wellink, also wrote that inflation risks 
remain despite the dampening effect of a strong euro. 

*     [Germany Bank Economists Up 2007 And 2008 GDP Growth Forecasts] 
The economic panel of the German Banking Association (BDB) -- consisting 
of the chief economists of ten leading private banks in Germany -- on 
Wednesday raised its forecast for German economic growth this year and 
next, arguing that the real economy won't be hit by the current credit 
crisis. The economists upped their 2007 German GDP forecast to +2.5% 
from the +2.1% forecast in April. Their 2008 GDP projection was hiked to 
+2.0% from +1.9%.           

Asia

*    [HKMA Follows Fed's Cut] The Hong Kong Monetary Authority (HKMA) 
has cut the base rate for its discount window by 50 basis points to 
6.25%, following the US Federal Reserve's cut in the federal funds rate. 
The HKMA generally follows the Fed's interest rate adjustments, because 
Hong Kong's currency is pegged to the US dollar. The HKMA base rate is 
the reference rate for lending overnight funds to local banks through 
its discount window.

*    [BOJ Leaves Econ View Unchanged] The Japanese economy is expected 
to stay on a "moderate" growth track under price stability, the Bank of 
Japan said in a monthly report on Wednesday, the comments coming despite 
market concerns that the US subprime mortgage problems could cause a US 
recession. The economy is expected to "continue expanding moderately," 
backed by solid domestic demand and exports overall, the BOJ concluded, 
repeating its view from previous months. 

*    [Japan Dept Store Sales Up In Aug]  Japanese department store sales 
rose 1.4% from a year earlier to Y520.8 billion in August, rising for 
the first time in two months, as fine weather and warmer temperature 
supported sales of summer items, the Japan Department Stores Association 
said Wednesday. In June, department store sales rose 5.5% year-on-year, 
the first time sales have risen more than 5% since April 1998.   
   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1202 : Interest Rates | e1101 : Economic Growth | nsum : News Digest | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | niwe : IWE Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBMarket News International, Inc.   ANDocument MARNEW0020070920e39j0002v  



 HDRepeat:Greenspan Book Gloomy About Infl, Long Rates in Future      WC979 words   PD18 September 2007   ET07:34   SNMarket News International   SCMARNEW   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007. Market News International, Inc.   
   TD
--Retransmitting Story Published 16:17 ET Monday

By Steven K. Beckner

     Market News International - There are many interesting aspects of  
former Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan's just-released book, but 
perhaps the most important are his warnings about inflation. 

     Much of the advance publicity on "The Age of Turbulence: Adventures 
in a New World" has focused on Greenspan's criticism of President Bush 
or on his responsibility for the housing bubble. 

     But from a Fed watchers' standpoint, Greenspan's premonitions about 
inflation and long-term interest rates are the most timely. 

     Released on the eve of Tuesday's Federal Open Market Committee 
meeting, the former Fed chief sounds anything but optimistic about the 
Fed's ability to keep inflation under control without losing its 
independence in years to come. 

     A hallmark of Greenspan's more than 18-year tenure was taming 
inflation. The achievement of relative price stability has largely been 
preserved by successor Ben Bernanke since he took office on Feb. 1, 
2006. But Greenspan warns it will be hard to keep prices rising at 
around 2% as the disinflationary forces of globalization fade and as the 
fiscal  demands of retiring baby boomers mount. 

     As China and other countries continue to modernize, Greenspan 
predicts they will cease to be a source of cheap imports and labor, and 
he says this will boost the inflation rate to at least 4.5%. 

     To combat wage-price pressures, he says the Fed will have to 
vigorously raise interest rates. He predicts 10-year Treasury note 
yields, to which many mortgage rates are tied, will nearly double to 
8 percent, and perhaps go much higher. 

     He fears an angry Congress, responding to populist pressures, might 
then curtail the Fed's independence. 

     Greenspan ascribes much of the Fed's ability to get inflation under 
control in recent years to globalization. "The continuing acceleration 
of the flow of workers to competitive markets during the past decade has 
been a potent disinflationary force," he writes. "That acceleration has 
depressed wage growth and held down inflation virtually uniformly across 
the road." 

     This disinflation has in turn helped hold down long-term interest 
rates, Greenspan says. 

     But he writes that "the rate of flow of workers to competitive 
labor markets will eventually slow, and as a result, disinflationary 
pressures should start to lift. China's wage-rate growth should mount, 
as should its rate of inflation." Chinese export prices, which rose 
earlier this year, will rise further, he predicts. 

     The result will be "a pickup of price inflation and wage growth in 
the United States, writes Greenspan, adding, "the burden of managing 
this shift will fall on the Federal Reserve." 

     "How significant -- and how corrosive - these price pressures will 
become for the American economy will depend in large part on the Fed's 
ability to respond," he writes, adding, "The degree of monetary restraint 
required to contain any given rate of inflation will increase." 

     He predicts the FOMC, "as they strive to maintain price stability 
in the coming quarter century, will run into populist resistance from 
Congress, if not from the White House." Greenspan remembers all too well 
the public pressure that the first President Bush put on him to hold 
down interest rates. 

     Greenspan was unsure of when globalization will cease to be 
disinflationary, but says "a lessening in the degree of disinflation 
suggested by the upturn in prices of U.S. imports from China in spring 
2007 and the firming of real long-term interest rates as this book goes 
to the press raise the possibility that the turn may be upon us sooner 
rather than later." 

     "So at some point in the next few years, unless contained, 
inflation will return to a higher long-term rate." 

     Globalization aside, fiscal forces -- namely deficit spending under 
the demographic pressure of a bulging population of retirees-- will add 
to pressure on inflation, interest rates and Fed independence, Greenspan 
suggests. 

     Already the need to fund government programs "has imparted a bias 
toward inflation," Greenspan contends. "In the political arena, the 
pressure to make low-interest-rate credit generally available and to use 
fiscal measures to boost employment and avoid the unpleasantness of 
downward adjustments in nominal wages and prices has become nearly 
impossible to resist." 

     Greenspan doubts whether there would be much popular 
dissatisfaction until inflation got to at least 5%. So he says a 4.5% 
inflation rate in coming years is "probably not a bad first 
approximation of what we will face." 

     The "tsunami" of baby boomer retirees "could add massively to the 
demand for economic resources and heighten inflationary pressures," he 
goes on. "Thus, without a change of policy, a higher rate of inflation 
can be anticipated in the United States." 

     As a result, "the Fed, given my scenario, would have to constrain 
monetary expansion so drastically that it could temporarily drive up 
interest rates into the double-digit range not seen since the days of 
Paul Volcker," Greenspan says, recalling his predecessor's draconian 
assault on the double digit inflation of the 1970s. 

     Greenspan warns that "an elevated inflation rate, if allowed to 
develop, will create a different financial environment than currently 
prevails." 

     "With real interest rates and expected inflation likely to rise on 
average over the next quarter century, so would nominal long-term 
rates," he continues. "If real rates on 10-year U.S. Treasury notes were 
to rise by 1 percentage point from today's 2.5% (owing to a fall in 
global saving intentions) and if fiat-money inflation expectations added 
the 4.5 percentage points it has implied in the past, that would create 
a nominal yield for the 10-year note of 8%." 

     That 8% is just a baseline, he suggests, excluding "whatever 
premium is required to fund the obligations to baby-boomer retirees."

                ** Market News International **   
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBMarket News International, Inc.   ANDocument MARNEW0020070919e39i0001j  



 HDLiebscher -1: ECB Must Do What It Must Despite What Fed Does      WC945 words   PD19 September 2007   ET14:45   SNMarket News International   SCMARNEW   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007. Market News International, Inc.   
   TD

    VIENNA (MNI) - The European Central Bank must do "what is
necessary" to preserve price stability in the euro area and cannot be
overly influenced by the actions of the U.S. Federal Reserve, ECB
Governing Council member Klaus Liebscher told Market News International.

    In other comments during a lengthy interview in his office at the
Austrian National Bank, which he heads, Liebscher conceded that
financial market turbulence could last for a few months and that it is
too early to say what impact the turmoil might have on Europe's economy.
He insisted that the European banking system is "solid," though
"surprises" at individual banks cannot be excluded.

    Liebscher repeated the ECB's current mantra that the central bank's
baseline scenario -- price risks "clearly" on the upside and economic
growth continuing around trend potential -- remains "intact." Inflation
will likely rise in the months ahead, and the impact of a U.S. slowdown
on Europe's economy should be limited, he said.

    Liebscher said the ECB will "very closely monitor" the outlook for
price stability and do what is necessary to contain inflation. There is
"no precommitment" on interest rates, however, and the uncertainty
caused by the financial gyrations will need to be carefully assessed, he
said.      Liebscher declined during the hour-long interview to comment
on exchange rates and the euro's proximity to record-high levels against
the dollar, other than to say that the ECB, as always, "is not
interested in disorderly or abrupt movements" of currencies. The euro's
exchange rate is one factor among many the ECB considers, he added.

    ECB MUST FOCUS ON ITS RESPONSIBILITIES REGARDLESS OF FED ACTIONS

    Liebscher insisted that while the ECB takes account of the actions
of other central banks, it must focus on the needs of the eurozone
economy in shaping its monetary policy.

    The Austrian central bank head implied that a rate cut by the
Federal Reserve need not keep the ECB from hiking interest rates again
should it decide such a move is necessary to preserve price stability in
Europe. The interview took place hours before the Fed announced it was
slashing its key federal funds rate, as well as its discount rate, by 50
basis points - a larger cut than markets had expected.

    "The euro area is one of the largest currency areas, and we have to
do what we have to do for our situation," Liebscher said. "And I think
we did so rightly in the past and we will do so in the present and also
in the future. So we have to deal with our needs. The Americans and
other central banks have to do what their needs require."

    Liebscher rejected the suggestion that an ECB rate hike in the
current situation would involve a difficult de-coupling of U.S. and
European monetary policy.

    "I really disagree with that, because in the past there never was a
coupling of monetary policy, due to the fact that there was a different
business cycle in the U.S. or different monetary policy strategies," he
argued. "So if they do what they have to do in the United States, then
they have to do it for their needs, and we have to do what our needs
[require]. Of course we register what is going on around us, but, again,
we have to do what is really necessary for the euro area. and to fulfill
our [price stability] mandate."

    ECB WARY ON INFLATION, BUT NO PRECOMMITMENT DUE TO UNCERTAINTY

    Liebscher made clear the ECB remains concerned about the
persistence of inflation risks in the 13-nation euro area, a situation
that could require a policy response in the future. However, the ECB
does not precommit on future interest rate decisions, and in the
meantime it must take account of the uncertainty caused by the
dysfunctional state of financial markets, he said.

    "Our baseline scenario is still intact. That means we have had
dynamic growth up to now...[and] the risks to inflation are clearly on
the upside," he said.

    "We will, without any precommitment [on interest rates], assess all
incoming data over the next few weeks, as we did in the past, and then
we'll decide what is necessary. There is the full responsibility for
doing everything that is necessary to keep price stability."

    The ECB, however, "also had to take into account this [financial
market] turbulence and the uncertainties which are there...and this was
the reason to say in September that we would keep interest rates
unchanged," Liebscher said, adding that it was unclear how long the
uncertainty could last.

    "There is no doubt that uncertainty about future developments has
increased," he said. "But I think it is much too early to say now
whether [the impact on the real economy] is going in this or that
direction."

    Liebscher added: "We will see. We will collect and assess the
available data. Due to these effects of uncertainty, we have to very
closely monitor all the developments. But again, there really is no
precommitment for a future rate hike or whatever. We have to assess that
at the given time."

    The central banker observed that the ECB would get new data by the
end of September, including August money supply and credit numbers. But
he declined to say whether the uncertainty still prevailing would lead
the policymaking Governing Council to keep interest rates on hold at its
next meeting on October 4 in Vienna, which Liebscher will host.

MORE

--Frankfurt Newsroom, 00-49-69-720-149; christian@marketnews.com

[TOPICS: M$X$$$,MT$$$$,MX$$$$,M$$EC$]   
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | e52 : Euro Zone/Currency | ecbnk : European Central Bank | ecat : Economic News | eec : European Union | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBMarket News International, Inc.   ANDocument MARNEW0020070919e39j000mg  



 HDGreenspan Book Gloomy About Inflation, Long Rates in Future      WC977 words   PD17 September 2007   ET22:17   SNMarket News International   SCMARNEW   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007. Market News International, Inc.   
   TD

By Steven K. Beckner

     Market News International - There are many interesting aspects of  
former Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan's just-released book, but 
perhaps the most important are his warnings about inflation. 

     Much of the advance publicity on "The Age of Turbulence: Adventures 
in a New World" has focused on Greenspan's criticism of President Bush 
or on his responsibility for the housing bubble. 

     But from a Fed watchers' standpoint, Greenspan's premonitions about 
inflation and long-term interest rates are the most timely. 

     Released on the eve of Tuesday's Federal Open Market Committee 
meeting, the former Fed chief sounds anything but optimistic about the 
Fed's ability to keep inflation under control without losing its 
independence in years to come. 

     A hallmark of Greenspan's more than 18-year tenure was taming 
inflation. The achievement of relative price stability has largely been 
preserved by successor Ben Bernanke since he took office on Feb. 1, 
2006. But Greenspan warns it will be hard to keep prices rising at 
around 2% as the disinflationary forces of globalization fade and as the 
fiscal  demands of retiring baby boomers mount. 

     As China and other countries continue to modernize, Greenspan 
predicts they will cease to be a source of cheap imports and labor, and 
he says this will boost the inflation rate to at least 4.5%. 

     To combat wage-price pressures, he says the Fed will have to 
vigorously raise interest rates. He predicts 10-year Treasury note 
yields, to which many mortgage rates are tied, will nearly double to 
8 percent, and perhaps go much higher. 

     He fears an angry Congress, responding to populist pressures, might 
then curtail the Fed's independence. 

     Greenspan ascribes much of the Fed's ability to get inflation under 
control in recent years to globalization. "The continuing acceleration 
of the flow of workers to competitive markets during the past decade has 
been a potent disinflationary force," he writes. "That acceleration has 
depressed wage growth and held down inflation virtually uniformly across 
the road." 

     This disinflation has in turn helped hold down long-term interest 
rates, Greenspan says. 

     But he writes that "the rate of flow of workers to competitive 
labor markets will eventually slow, and as a result, disinflationary 
pressures should start to lift. China's wage-rate growth should mount, 
as should its rate of inflation." Chinese export prices, which rose 
earlier this year, will rise further, he predicts. 

     The result will be "a pickup of price inflation and wage growth in 
the United States, writes Greenspan, adding, "the burden of managing 
this shift will fall on the Federal Reserve." 

     "How significant -- and how corrosive - these price pressures will 
become for the American economy will depend in large part on the Fed's 
ability to respond," he writes, adding, "The degree of monetary restraint 
required to contain any given rate of inflation will increase." 

     He predicts the FOMC, "as they strive to maintain price stability 
in the coming quarter century, will run into populist resistance from 
Congress, if not from the White House." Greenspan remembers all too well 
the public pressure that the first President Bush put on him to hold 
down interest rates. 

     Greenspan was unsure of when globalization will cease to be 
disinflationary, but says "a lessening in the degree of disinflation 
suggested by the upturn in prices of U.S. imports from China in spring 
2007 and the firming of real long-term interest rates as this book goes 
to the press raise the possibility that the turn may be upon us sooner 
rather than later." 

     "So at some point in the next few years, unless contained, 
inflation will return to a higher long-term rate." 

     Globalization aside, fiscal forces -- namely deficit spending under 
the demographic pressure of a bulging population of retirees-- will add 
to pressure on inflation, interest rates and Fed independence, Greenspan 
suggests. 

     Already the need to fund government programs "has imparted a bias 
toward inflation," Greenspan contends. "In the political arena, the 
pressure to make low-interest-rate credit generally available and to use 
fiscal measures to boost employment and avoid the unpleasantness of 
downward adjustments in nominal wages and prices has become nearly 
impossible to resist." 

     Greenspan doubts whether there would be much popular 
dissatisfaction until inflation got to at least 5%. So he says a 4.5% 
inflation rate in coming years is "probably not a bad first 
approximation of what we will face." 

     The "tsunami" of baby boomer retirees "could add massively to the 
demand for economic resources and heighten inflationary pressures," he 
goes on. "Thus, without a change of policy, a higher rate of inflation 
can be anticipated in the United States." 

     As a result, "the Fed, given my scenario, would have to constrain 
monetary expansion so drastically that it could temporarily drive up 
interest rates into the double-digit range not seen since the days of 
Paul Volcker," Greenspan says, recalling his predecessor's draconian 
assault on the double digit inflation of the 1970s. 

     Greenspan warns that "an elevated inflation rate, if allowed to 
develop, will create a different financial environment than currently 
prevails." 

     "With real interest rates and expected inflation likely to rise on 
average over the next quarter century, so would nominal long-term 
rates," he continues. "If real rates on 10-year U.S. Treasury notes were 
to rise by 1 percentage point from today's 2.5% (owing to a fall in 
global saving intentions) and if fiat-money inflation expectations added 
the 4.5 percentage points it has implied in the past, that would create 
a nominal yield for the 10-year note of 8%." 

     That 8% is just a baseline, he suggests, excluding "whatever 
premium is required to fund the obligations to baby-boomer retirees."

                ** Market News International **

[TOPICS: M$U$$$,MMUFE$,MGU$$$,MFU$$$]   
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBMarket News International, Inc.   ANDocument MARNEW0020070918e39h0000i  



 HDUPDATE 1-Bank Indonesia: room to trim again if Fed cuts rates      BYBy Adriana Nina Kusuma      WC418 words   PD17 September 2007   ET06:32   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007 Reuters Limited   
   LPJAKARTA, Sept 17 (Reuters) - Indonesia's central bank governor said that a cut in U.S. interest rates by the Federal Reserve this week would provide more room for Bank Indonesia to reduce its benchmark interest rate, known as the BI rate <BIPG>.   

The statement by Governor Burhanuddin Abdullah on Monday, which came ahead of the U.S. Federal Reserve policy meeting on Sept. 18, indicates that the central bank will continue to trim rates, giving a further lift to Southeast Asia's biggest economy.   
   TD"If the Fed lowers its rates, by around 25 to 50 basis points, that would give us room, but we will have to see the domestic situation," Abdullah told reporters when asked about further reductions in Bank Indonesia's (BI) key interest rates.   

Bank Indonesia has cut its benchmark rate 13 times from a high of 12.75 percent last year to 8.25 percent in July, but a recent spike in inflation and volatility in the global financial markets put a temporary halt on further reductions.   

Annual inflation hit a five-month high of 6.51 percent in August, against a market forecast of 6.24 percent, due to higher food prices ahead of Ramadan.   

Analysts expect price pressure to continue during the religious celebrations in the world's most-populous Muslim country. However, they expect Bank Indonesia to cut rates again -- either in November or December when inflation is expected to ease -- bringing the benchmark rate to 8 percent.   

Most analysts and traders expect the Fed to cut the fed funds rate when it meets on Tuesday to help ease a global credit squeeze.   

The central banks of Thailand, Malaysia and the Philippines have kept their key rates unchanged in recent weeks, while the Reserve Bank of Australia on Wednesday also left rates steady following worries over a possible fallout from the U.S. subprime mortgage crisis.   

Analysts polled by Reuters earlier this month said that the central bank needs to keep interest rate differentials at attractive levels to boost confidence in the rupiah.   

The riskier but high-yielding rupiah currency had been hit hard in recent weeks by worries over a possible fallout from the U.S. subprime mortgage crisis, but has steadied at around 9,370 per dollar ahead of the U.S. Federal Reserve's meeting.   
   RFINDONESIA-RATES/ (UPDATE 1)|LANGEN|IF|ABN|M|E|RBN|D|RNP|DNP   CObkindo : Bank Indonesia   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REasiaz : Asia | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | indon : Indonesia | usa : United States | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | namz : North America | seasiaz : Southeast Asia   IPCCEN | MCE | INT | STIR | ECI | PLCY   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020070917e39h0008t  



 HDAnalysis: Good feelings created by Fed's rate cut could recede as fast as they rolled in      BYBy JEANNINE AVERSA      CRAP Economics Writer   WC928 words   PD19 September 2007   ET06:47   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPWASHINGTON (AP) - Like the tides, the wave of good feelings that swept over Wall Street and Main Street with the Federal Reserve's big interest rate cut could ebb just as quickly.   

Homeowners opening up statements for their adjustable-rate mortgages come October will experience a jolt when the rates jump, but not as severe a jolt as it could have been.   
   TDAnd, Wall Street's mood swings -- reflecting bouts of panic and then some relief -- are expected to linger.   

That is because the Fed's action, while perhaps providing some help, will not cure problems in the ailing housing market, which are still expected to drag well into next year.   

It will take time for builders to work off a glut of unsold homes. That means the housing slump will continue to hold back the economy and probably lead to more job cuts in construction, manufacturing and other industries.   

The Fed's action also won't stop home foreclosures and late mortgage payments from rising in the months ahead.   

In a bold move, Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke and his colleagues on Tuesday sliced a key interest rate by one-half a percentage point to 4.75 percent. It was the first rate cut in more than four years.   

Their aim is to prevent the economy from being thrown into a recession by a housing meltdown and a credit crunch. Lower rates should induce people and businesses to boost spending and investing, which would help energize economic activity.   

Wall Street investors were cheered by the move, sending the Dow Jones industrial average zooming 335.97 points. It was the Dow's biggest one-day point jump in nearly five years.   

Over the short term, the rate cut can provide an important psychological boost. It could make investors, businesses and others less inclined to clamp down or make drastic changes in their behavior that would hurt the economy.   

"This does not heal the financial markets, but it can help in the process of healing. But we're not there yet," said Ken Mayland, economist at ClearView Economics.   

The improved mind set, though, could turn out to be fleeting.   

"I think the honeymoon is going to be pretty short for the euphoria of this Fed cut," said Greg McBride, senior financial analyst for Bankrate.com. "A half-point cut can only do so much. It doesn't transform the housing market into sunshine and daffodils."   

The housing market is suffering through its worst slump in 16 years. Home sales are expected to keep on sagging. Home prices, which saw double-digit gains in many areas during the boom, have cooled off significantly. Affordability is still an issue for would-be home buyers, experts say.   

Pain will continue to be felt by borrowers, lenders and investors of "subprime" mortgages -- higher-risk loans made to people with spotty credit or with low incomes.   

Analysts estimate that 2 million adjustable-rate mortgages will jump from very low initial teaser rates to higher rates this year and next. Steep prepayment penalties have made it difficult for some to get out of their mortgages. Some overstretched homeowners can't afford to refinance or even sell their homes.   

The Fed's action does provide a bit of relief. For owners facing a reset on Oct. 1, their new rate will rise to 6.75 percent, versus 7.50 if it had reset a few months earlier, McBride said.   

"The payment is still going up by hundreds of dollars a month. So people are not going to feel warm and fuzzy," he said.   

The subprime mortgage meltdown has forced some lenders out of business, and whacked investors.   

Congress, meanwhile, is working on plans to help struggling homeowners avoid foreclosure, although it could take a few months for a final package to be approved.   

For consumers, whose confidence has been rattled by the housing and credit problems, much turns on whether employment conditions continue to deteriorate.   

The economy lose 4,000 jobs in August, the first decline in four years. The unemployment rate, now at 4.6 percent, is expected to climb close to 5 percent by the end of the year. A softening job market eventually will probably mean slower wage growth.   

Howard Chernick, economic professor at Hunter College, doesn't think the Fed's rate cut will make people rush to the malls.   

"Consumer spending is influenced by employment and wages," Chernick said. "Aside from the euphoria some might now feel, I don't think there is going to be a big effect."   

It will take months for the Fed's rate cut to ripple through the economy, with the hope that it will bolster activity.   

Analysts expect the economy to slow to a rate of about 2 percent in the July-to-September quarter. That would be just half the pace of the previous three months. Growth in the final three months of this year could turn out even weaker.   

Ex-Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan, in an interview Monday with The Associated Press, said the odds of a recession are growing.   

"Obviously the odds have moved up to more than a third, but I doubt if we are anywhere near 50 percent yet." Earlier this year, his prediction of a one-in-three chance of a recession caused Wall Street to nosedive.   

------   

EDITOR'S NOTE-- Jeannine Aversa has covered economics and the Federal Reserve for The Associated Press since 1999.   
   RF7   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPCtagpf0wcat | sel----- | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | NA ANL US Interest Rates | D8ROAKOO0   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020070919e39j000gz  



 HDDiscount stores rise after  Federal Reserve  cuts key  interest rate  to help boost U.S. economy      WC277 words   PD18 September 2007   ET22:36   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPNEW YORK (AP) - Discount store stocks rose Tuesday after the Federal Reserve Bank chopped a key interest rate by a half a percentage point in an attempt to kick-start the U.S. economy and assuage investors' fears of a recession.   

The cut reduced the federal funds rate -- the rate banks charge each other on overnight loans -- to 4.75 percent. It was the Fed's first reduction in the rate in four years.   
   TDThe decision came after last month's decline in jobs and weakening retail sales. The rate also comes amid a worsening housing market and tighter credit markets that have caused volatility in the stock market and raised fears of a recession.   

Lehman Brothers analyst Robert Drbul said in a note to investors that retailers who cater to lower- and middle-class consumers typically generate large share-price gains after an interest rate cut.   

Drbul said the last three times the Fed cut rates multiple times over a series of meetings, discount stores outperformed the S&P 500 in the first 30 days after the first cut in that cycle.   

Here is how some key discount store stocks fared Tuesday:   

Wal-Mart Stores Inc. rose $1.12, or 2.6 percent, to $44.44.   

Target Corp. jumped $3.87, or 6.1%, to $67.28.   

BJ's Wholesale Club Inc. gained $1.20, or 3.5 percent, to $35.26.   

Costco Wholesale Corp. advanced $2.31, or 3.9 percent, to $61.82.   

Fred's Inc. rose 43 cents, or 4.2 percent, to $10.74.   
   RF7   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | m11 : Equity Markets | ecat : Economic News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagapf | selapfin | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | APFN Sector Wrap Discount Stores | D8RO3EF81   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020070918e39i00391  



 HDRestaurant shares rise after  Federal Reserve  cuts key  interest rate    WC311 words   PD18 September 2007   ET22:23   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPNEW YORK (AP) - Restaurant stocks mainly rose Tuesday after the Federal Reserve cut a key interest rate by half a percentage point to help jumpstart a struggling economy.   

The Fed reduced the federal funds rate, or the rate banks charge each other on overnight loans, to 4.75 percent from 5.25 percent.   
   TDAnalysts and investors had widely expected a cut of a quarter-point or half-point after last month's decline in jobs and weakening retail sales. That, coupled with a weakening housing sector, tightened credit markets and stock market volatility, all gave investors hope for a rate cut.   

Citi analyst Glen M. Petraglia said in a note to investors that both quick-service and casual dining stocks historically outperform the S&P 500 following an interest rate cut, with casual dining operators posting the greatest gains.   

But Petraglia said he still prefers quick-service chains since casual dining chains have other concerns -- like high gas prices and the collapse of the housing market -- that could weigh down stock prices. Traffic, he said, has also been lower in the past two years as quick-service restaurants have stepped up their offerings.   

Here is how some key restaurant stocks did Tuesday:   

Applebee's International Inc., up 15 cents to $24.86   

Cheesecake Factory Inc., up 90 cents, or 3.8 percent, to $24.78   

Darden Restaurants Inc., up $1.49, or 3.5 percent, to $43.84   

Brinker International Inc., up 70 cents, or 2.6 percent, to $27.97   

McDonald's Corp., up 38 cents to $55.02   

Wendy's Internatonal Inc., up $1.90, or 5.8 percent, to $34.47   

Burger King Corp., up 15 cents to $25.29   

P.F. Chang's China Bistro Inc., up $2.14, or 7 percent, to $32.87   
   RF7   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | m11 : Equity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagapf | selapfin | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | APFN Sector Wrap Restaurants | D8RO38FG0   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020070918e39i003bn  



 HDHong Kong Monetary Authority follows U.S. Fed, cuts key  interest rate    WC262 words   PD19 September 2007   ET08:00   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPHONG KONG (AP) - The Hong Kong Monetary Authority cut its benchmark base interest rate half a percentage point to 6.25 percent Wednesday after the U.S. Federal Reserve cuts its key interest rate by the same amount.   

Hong Kong's currency is pegged to the U.S. dollar, and the HKMA usually follows in lockstep any U.S. interest rate adjustments.   
   TDOvernight, the U.S. Fed reduced the target for its federal funds rate, the rate at which banks lend to each other short term, to 4.75 percent from 5.25 percent.   

Hong Kong's stock market ralled on the news of the Fed's larger-than-expected cut, with the benchmark Hang Seng index up 928.45 points, or 3.78 percent, to 25,505.3.   

The HKMA has pledged to keep its base rate -- the reference rate for the lending of overnight funds to local banks through its discount window -- fixed at least 1.5 percentage points above the federal funds rate.   

Last month, the HKMA didn't follow the Fed's move to cut its discount rate -- an emergency source of funding for banks direct from the Fed -- by half a percentage point to 5.75 percent, saying the move didn't directly apply to Hong Kong policy.   

It is up to individual banks to decide whether to change their deposit or lending rates in response to any interest rate changes by the HKMA.   

Local banks are expected to announce their decisions sometime Wednesday.   
   RF7   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REchina : China | hkong : Hong Kong | usa : United States | asiaz : Asia | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America   IPCtagapf | selapfin | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | APFN AS FIN Hong Kong Interest Rates | D8ROBMOG0   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020070919e39j000m9  



 HDPhilippine Central Bank: Fed Cut Gives Room to Adjust Rates      WC293 words   PD19 September 2007   ET04:06   SNMarket News International   SCMARNEW   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007. Market News International, Inc.   
   TD

     MANILA (XFN) - The Philippine central bank said Wednesday the 
Federal Reserve's decision to cut interest rates gives it room to adjust 
its own rates. 

     The US central bank lowered its benchmark interest rate by a 
larger-than-expected half percentage point on Tuesday to ease credit 
markets, saying the tightening credit conditions could further stress 
the housing market and restrain economic growth. 

     "The Fed decision accords the central bank some room for maneuver 
in our own rate setting, given that the outlook for inflation continues 
to be benign," central bank Governor Amando Tetangco Jr said in a mobile 
phone message sent to reporters. 

     "In addition, our assessments show that the risk to this outlook, 
including liquidity growth, appear to be manageable." 

     The central bank's key interest rates have remained unchanged since 
July 12, when it slashed its overnight borrowing rate to 6.00% from 
7.50% and its overnight lending rate to 8.00% from 9.75%. 

     The rate cut was neutralized by the simultaneous removal of the 
tiered rate system for banks' placements with the central bank which had 
been in place for about nine months. 

     Tetangco, however, said the upside risks to inflation remain. "We 
will continue to monitor these risks, particularly any prolonged 
volatility in oil prices, and their impact on inflation expectations," 
he said. 

     Crude oil prices rose to new records above $82 a barrel in early 
Asian trading Wednesday after the Fed's rate cut raised hopes that US 
economic growth will accelerate and lift oil demand. 

     Philippine inflation for the first eight months of 2007 averaged 
2.6%, well under the government's target range of 4-5% for the whole 
year. 

[TOPICS: M$A$$$]   
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REphlns : Philippines | usa : United States | asiaz : Asia | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | namz : North America | seasiaz : Southeast Asia   PUBMarket News International, Inc.   ANDocument MARNEW0020070919e39j000e4  



 HDBank of Japan Board Votes 8-1 To Keep 0.5% O/N Rate Target      WC718 words   PD19 September 2007   ET06:23   SNMarket News International   SCMARNEW   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007. Market News International, Inc.   
   TD

     TOKYO (MNI) - The Bank of Japan on Wednesday said its nine-member 
policy board voted 8-1 to maintain the target for the overnight call 
rate at 0.5% amid concerns that the US subprime mortgage lending and 
debt investment woes could hurt a broader economy.    

     The BOJ issued a brief statement on its "no change" decision at the 
end of a regular two-day policy-setting meeting following a sharp 50 
basis point cut by the US Federal Reserve in key interest rates. 
                                                                
     Board member Atsushi Mizuno voted against leaving short-term 
interest rates unchanged, the BOJ said. 

     The BOJ statement didn't say whether Mizuno had proposed an 
immediate rate hike but he was also the only board member at the 
previous two meetings to call for a rate increase. 
     
     BOJ Governor Toshihiko Fukui will hold a news conference at 3:30 pm 
Japan time (0630 GMT) after the bank releases its monthly report on the 
economy and financial markets. 

     The decision followed the board's 8-1 vote to leave the overnight 
call rate -- the interest rate commercial banks charge each other for 
short-term funds -- unchanged at its previous meetings in July and 
August and its unanimous votes to keep rates steady from March to June. 
   
     The BOJ last raised interest rates in February, to 0.5% from 0.25%, 
by an 8-1 vote, the second hike in its "flexible and gradual" 
credit-tightening cycle launched in July 2006, when the bank conducted 
its first rate hike in six years. 

     In February, the BOJ board also voted 8-1 to raise the lombard-type 
Basic Loan Rate to 0.75% from 0.4%. That is the interest the BOJ charges 
on short-term loans to commercial banks who find it hard to borrow from 
the money market, and works as the upper limit of overnight rates. 

     BOJ policymakers have said the bank will adjust interest rates 
"gradually" in response to an improvement in the economy and prices 
while watching for both upside and downside risks to sustained growth. 

     But they have also warned that expectations that very low interest 
rates will continue for a long time could trigger excessive investment 
in production capacity and financial instruments, and in turn hurt the 
economy. 

     The Japanese economy has been expanding moderately since February 
2002, with slower US growth posing the largest downside risk going 
forward. 

     The BOJ has also vowed to prevent a rise in inflation expectations, 
which Fukui calls "the biggest enemy" for central bankers. 
     
     But inflation in Japan remains tame, with the latest core consumer 
prices depressed by continued drops in flat-screen TV prices and 
discounts on mobile phone charges despite gains in some food prices. 
 
     The latest data showed that the core national CPI, which excludes 
volatile fresh food prices but excludes energy costs, fell 0.1% in July 
from a year earlier, down for the sixth consecutive month. 

     The core CPI for central Tokyo -- sometimes a leading indicator for 
the national index -- was unchanged from a year earlier in August, after 
falling 0.1% in both June and July. 

     Meanwhile, hit by the effects of a major earthquake in July, 
industrial production in the month fell 0.4% from the previous month, 
the first drop in two months. 

     But the government estimates that production would have risen by 
0.6% from June had the quake not occurred. All Japanese automakers 
suspended assembling cars for several days after the quake hit a major 
supplier of key engine components.   

     The survey by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry shows 
that output is forecast to surge 6.8% in August before dropping 2.5% in 
September. 

     The BOJ's board will next meet to discuss the need to hike interest 
rates on Oct. 10-11 and Oct. 31, when it releases its semi-annual 
Outlook Report. 

     The market focus is on whether the BOJ will change its economic 
growth and inflation projections in the report and how it will describe 
the upside and downside risks amid the housing sector slump and 
lingering inflation concerns in the US. 
                                         
                          msato@marketnews.com 
     ** Market News International Tokyo Newsroom: 81-3-3221-9508 **

[TOPICS: M$J$$$,M$A$$$,MMJBJ$,MT$$$$]   
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REjap : Japan | usa : United States | asiaz : Asia | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America   PUBMarket News International, Inc.   ANDocument MARNEW0020070919e39j000eb  



 HDASIA FX: US Dollar Stays Weak But Barely Moves on BOJ Outcome      WC648 words   PD19 September 2007   ET06:54   SNMarket News International   SCMARNEW   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007. Market News International, Inc.   
   TD

     SINGAPORE, Sept 19 (MNI) - The US dollar held a weak tone through 
the Asian morning in reaction to Federal Open Market Committee cutting 
its benchmark interest rate by a larger-than-expected half a percentage 
point. 

     The dollar has however traded off its record low against the euro, 
seen overnight, and didn't flinch against the yen after the Bank of 
Japan announced an as-expected decision to keep rates on hold. 

     Last night, the FOMC stunned many in the market by cutting the Fed 
funds rate and the Discount rate by 50 basis points each. 

     In announcing its decision to cut the Fed funds rate to 4.75% and 
the Discount rate to 5.25%, a steeper cut in the Fed funds rate than 
many had expected, the FOMC explained that "economic growth was 
moderate during the first half of the year, but the tightening of credit 
conditions has the potential to intensify the housing correction and to 
restrain economic growth more generally." 

     The result was a rebuilding of carry trade positions and a weaker 
US dollar, particularly against the euro, with the US currency diving to 
a fresh record low of $1.3988 against the single currency overnight. 

     "One interpretation behind the seemingly aggressive Fed action is 
perhaps that a positive shock from the Fed initially might be sufficient 
to boost sentiment and lessen the strain in financial markets, which 
could require less policy action overall, that is, to do more initially 
with the hope of doing less eventually," noted Thomas Lam, an economist 
at  United Overseas Bank. 

     This morning in Asia, euro-dollar has been easing back from that 
new lifetime high amid speculation of large option-related offers, 
rumored to be in protection of a $1.4000 barrier expiring today, dealers 
said.    

     The pair fell to a $1.3962 low around midmorning and the subsequent 
rebound was shallow and limited to $1.3980, despite the persistently 
weak US dollar sentiment. 

     Still, with the lure of large stop-loss buy orders placed above the 
psychologically important $1.4000 mark, most dealers expect the pair to 
chalk up new highs above that in the next few sessions. 

     Dollar-yen meanwhile saw some seesaw action in Asia this morning, 
although the pair had already stabilized in midrange of around Y115.93 
by the time the BOJ announced its decision. 

     As expected, the BOJ's nine-member board voted 8-1 to maintain the 
target for the overnight call rate at 0.5% amid concerns that the US 
subprime mortgage lending and debt investment woes could hurt a broader 
economy.    

     The BOJ issued a brief statement on its "no change" decision at the 
end of a regular two-day policy-setting meeting following a sharp 50 
basis point cut by the US Federal Reserve in key interest rates. 
                                                                
     Board member Atsushi Mizuno voted against leaving short-term 
interest rates unchanged, the BOJ said. 

     Dollar-yen headed lower from the start of the Asian day, touching a 
Y115.72 low but rebounded on short-covering to just above Y116.10 soon 
after. 

     Attention is now on BOJ Governor Toshihiko Fukui, who will hold a 
news conference at 3:30 pm Japan time (0630 GMT) after the bank releases 
its monthly report on the economy and financial markets. 

                          Dollar Rates in Asian Trade: 
                    Eur-Dlr   Dlr-Yen   Eur-Yen   Stg-Dlr   Dlr-Swiss

12:24 p.m.          1.3977    115.96    162.07    2.0127    1.1817
10:00 a.m.          1.3970    115.97    162.01    2.0120    1.1822
7:47 a.m. Sing      1.3974    115.82    161.84    2.0121    1.1816
3:46 p.m. NY        1.3970    116.33    162.48    2.0135    1.1825

                          iahmad@marketnews.com
     ** Market News International Singapore Newsroom: 65-6221-3466 ** 

[TOPICS: M$A$$$,M$$FX$]   
   COuob : United Overseas Bank Limited   INi814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | ecat : Economic News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REasiaz : Asia | usa : United States | namz : North America   PUBMarket News International, Inc.   ANDocument MARNEW0020070919e39j000ec  



 HDChina Yuan, Liquidity Probs Likely Tougher With US Rate Move      WC774 words   PD17 September 2007   ET07:53   SNMarket News International   SCMARNEW   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007. Market News International, Inc.   
   TD

     BEIJING (MNI) - Efforts to contain liquidity growth in China 
without allowing the yuan to appreciate faster will get harder if the 
U.S. Federal Reserve cuts interest rates as expected this week, analysts 
say. 

     The Fed is expected to cut interest rates this week to offset the 
negative effects of the U.S. subprime mortgage crisis on the country's 
slowing economy. 

     That would mean the gap between Chinese and U.S. interest rates 
would narrow further, putting more pressure on the Chinese currency to 
strengthen and making it that much harder for the People's  Bank of China 
to control liquidity. 

     "U.S. interest rate cuts will have a big impact on the independence 
of China's monetary policy," said Zhu Baoliang, an economist with the 
State Information Center, a think tank affiliated with the National 
Development and Reform Commission. 

     "If the rate gap between China and the US shrinks, yuan 
appreciation pressure will increase and foreign capital inflows will 
increase as well," he said. 

     The PBOC has been aggressively raising interest rates this year 
despite a long-standing, if implicit, policy to maintain a sizeable 
spread between Chinese and US interest rates to deter speculative 
capital inflows. 

     A central bank official told Market News International in July that 
the need to maintain a sizeable gap has lost its urgency in the face of 
surging domestic asset prices. 
    
     That gap, as measured by the yield on one-year sterilization paper 
and the equivalent US dollar LIBOR, has narrowed from over 300 basis 
points during the run-up to the July 2006 yuan revaluation to around 180 
points.      

     "Last year, the flavor of the month was the rate gap, this year 
it's been thrown out of the window," said Stephen Green, an economist 
with Standard Chartered Bank in Shanghai. 

     Still, analysts say it would be hard to ignore the effects of rates 
going one way in China and the opposite way in the U.S. 

     Green acknowledged, despite the rate gap policy's defenestration, 
there are questions about Beijing's confidence in allowing the gap to 
continue to shrink should it fall into double digits. 
 
     The need to balance the defense of the exchange rate with domestic 
economic concerns is put into the sharper relief by the recent upsurge 
in inflation. 

     Although officials blame much of the increase on the effects of 
food prices, Chinese inflation hit 6.5% in August, well above the 
official 3% target for the full year. 

     Fan Gang, a Beijing-based economist and member of the PBOC's 
monetary policy committee, said that in the short-run China needs to be 
concerned with the effect on its exports should the U.S. economy slow 
because of problems in the housing market. 

     But he said that a longer-run concern is that the easy money 
response by central banks to the crisis will eventually make its 
presence felt in Chinese asset prices. 

     "That's the concern," he said. "The short-term concern is the (US) 
housing sector, the long-run concern is how to deal with the overly 
liquid global markets." 

     Logan Wright, China analyst with Stone and McCarthy Research 
Associates, a sister company of Market News International, said the most 
likely outcome of the increasing pressure on Chinese monetary policy 
would be even faster reserve accumulation by the PBOC. 

     While the PBOC might prefer faster yuan appreciation to offset the 
liquidity pressure, opposition from virtually every other government 
agency means its only realistic option would be to continue intervening 
to limit the appreciation pace to the current 5% or so a year. 

     "We believe the central bank will continue to follow this route, 
leading to a faster pace of foreign exchange accumulation in the fourth 
quarter, and therefore a surge in Chinese purchases in U.S. fixed income 
markets," he said.    

     With that faster accumulation of reserves, Wright said "it is not 
out of the question" for China's reserves to hit $1.5 trln to $1.55 trln 
by the end of the year from the current $1.3 trln or so. 

     In turn, such accumulation would only increase political pressure 
on China to allow the yuan to strengthen, especially if the U.S. economy 
continued to weaken. 

     "As China's reserves keep growing, so will the political pressure 
from the United States, and Europe is likely to get into the act as 
well, considering the yuan is still depreciating against the euro," 
said Wright.

                         beijing@marketnews.com
** Market News International Beijing Newsroom +86-10 5864 5241**

[TOPICS: M$Q$$$,M$A$$$,M$$FX$,MMQPB$]   
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REchina : China | usa : United States | asiaz : Asia | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America   PUBMarket News International, Inc.   ANDocument MARNEW0020070917e39h0002m  



 HDTREASURIES-Fall in Europe after 50 bps U.S. rate cut      BYBy George Matlock      WC750 words   PD19 September 2007   ET10:29   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007 Reuters Limited   
   LPLONDON, Sept 19 (Reuters) - U.S. Treasuries fell in Europe on Wednesday, extending losses in Asia, after the Federal Reserve's surprisingly aggressive 50-basis-point interest rate cut the previous day spurred a surge in stocks <.IXIC><.GSPC>.   

Longer-dated debt slightly underperformed, however, as the monetary largesse and a rise in energy prices heightened worries about inflation.   
   TDA jump in oil prices to a record peak of $82.37 <CLc1> and a surge in gold prices to a 16-month high following the Fed's hefty rate cut stirred concerns that inflation could accelerate and erode the value of longer-dated bonds.   

The unanimous decision by the Fed took the benchmark federal    


funds rate down to 4.75 percent -- its lowest since May of last
year -- as the central bank acted to shield the economy from a
   

deepening housing slump and credit market turbulence.   

The Treasury yield curve steepened after the rate cut following the Fed's 50-basis point slash forced short-term yields lower even as long-term yields rose on expectations for stronger growth and inflation after the monetary easing. In Europe, all yields pointed north but longer-dated yields rose the most.   

Bond prices are inversely related to yields.   

"The sizable rate cut by the Federal Reserve has boosted the short end of most fixed-income markets overnight," said Riccardo Barbieri, a bond analyst at  Bank of America in London.   

At 0749 GMT, the benchmark 10-year note <US10YT=RR> fell in price to yield 4.52 percent, up five basis points from late U.S. trade on Tuesday.   

The 30-year bond <US30YT=RR> yielded 4.81 percent, also rising about six basis points.   

Interest rate-sensitive 2-year notes <US2YT=RR> fell 10/32 in price to yield 4.024 percent -- having dropped nearly 10 basis points immediately after the Fed's cut.   

The spread between two- and 10-year yields widened slightly to 50 basis points, pushing back towards a peak near 57 basis points hit a month ago -- what was the curve's steepest level in more than two years.   

"I see the spread widening further long-term. In the immediate future it's likely to reach 60 basis points although there is a disparity between what federal funds are pricing in for December, a rate of 4.5 percent, and what two-year Treasuries see, a yield of 4.03 percent equates to a rate of 4.25 percent," said Marc Ostwald, a bond analyst at Insinger de Beaufort in London.   

Ten-year note December futures <TYv1> fell 11/32 to 109-17. The 30-year T-Bond future <USv1> fell by close to a point to 111-25, compared with 112-18 at the close in New York on Tuesday.   

The September T-Note and T-Bond futures contracts officially expire on Wednesday and are replaced by the already more liquid December contracts as front month.   

Most market oberservers had expected a 25-basis-point rate cut although economists had cautioned that 50 basis points was not off the radar.   

The move saw the U.S. dollar currency index <=USD> ease to 79.16 and had been as low as low as 79.09 - well underneath the year-low of 79.179. If the index drops below 78.19 it would mark a new record low.   

The central bank said it still believed the economy faced some risk of inflation but said market developments since its last meeting in early August had increased the uncertainty surrounding the outlook.   

A Reuters poll of 18 primary bond dealers showed most expect another rate cut in October to 4.5 percent and such a level would mark the end of the central bank's monetary easing cycle.   

Data on U.S. inflation later in the day is likely to provide the bond market's first test after the Fed's move.   

An upside surprise in the consumer price index, due at 1230 GMT, could spark a further sell-off in long-dated debt.   

Economists in a Reuters survey expect a flat reading in the CPI for August for an annual inflation rate of 2.1 percent. The core CPI, which excludes food and energy costs, is seen rising 0.2 percent for an annual rate of 2.2 percent.   
   RFMARKETS-BONDS-TREASURIES|LANGEN|Table|ABN|M|E|RBN|D|NAT|RNP|DNP|PTD|PMF   NSmgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ntab : Table | e1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | niwe : IWE Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCDBT | GVD | US/ | US/L   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020070919e39j001yl  



 HDDollar tumbles to new low against the euro after Fed's half-point rate cut      BYBy TALI ARBEL      CRAP Business Writer   WC408 words   PD18 September 2007   ET22:55   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPNew York (AP) - The dollar fell against almost all major currencies and hit a record low against the euro Tuesday after the Federal Reserve made an aggressive half-point cut in a key interest rate.   

The euro rose as high $1.3979 after the long-awaited decision before settling back to $1.3971 in late New York trading, up from 1.3867 Monday.   
   TDThe dollar fell against the pound, too. The British currency bought $2.0131 in New York trading, up from $1.9939 Monday.   

The Federal Reserve cut its benchmark interest rate a half-point to 4.75 percent, the first reduction in this key rate in four years. Most dealers had expected a quarter-point cut.   

Lower interest rates, used to jump-start the economy, can weaken a currency by giving investors less return on investments denominated in the currency.   

The Fed acted to calm financial markets afraid of an impending recession due to a slumping housing market, the credit crunch, and weak August jobs data. The Fed said it "will continue to assess the effects of these and other developments on economic prospects and will act as needed to foster price stability and sustainable economic growth."   

The rate cut "will help support exports which will contribute to growth. This is something the Fed is seeking," said David Gilmore, a partner at Foreign Exchange Analytics in Essex, Conn., especially if the European Central Bank raises its interest rates, making the euro stronger. He said the dollar would probably continue to weaken in the medium term against all major currencies, with the exception of the yen, and foresaw positive repercussions for corporate earnings in the near future due to the export potential of a weaker dollar.   

The implied rate decreases, however, could take three to nine months to affect the broader economy.   

Wall Street celebrated the positive news, with the Dow Jones industrial average shooting up by more than 330 points. Investors withdrew money from the safer bond market and invested in stocks.   

The dollar fell against the Canadian dollar to 1.0162 from 1.0279 Monday, a new 30 year low, and was down against the Swiss franc at 1.1816 from 1.1866 Monday. The dollar strengthened slightly against the Japanese currency, however, rising to 115.74 yen from 115.17 on Monday.   
   RF7   NSm13 : Money/Forex Markets | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | eec : European Union | e1202 : Interest Rates | e52 : Euro Zone/Currency | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations   REeurz : Europe | usa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagdstab | sel9---- | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | Dollar | D8RO3NB01   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020070918e39i001sa  



 HDWachovia cuts key  interest rate  after  Federal Reserve  decision      WC124 words   PD18 September 2007   ET21:25   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPNEW YORK (AP) -  Wachovia Corp. on Tuesday lowered its prime rate one-half of one percentage point after the Federal Reserve cut its key interest rate.   

Wachovia said its prime rate is now 7.75 percent. The Fed cut the federal funds rate, which is what banks charge each other for overnight loans, to 4.75 percent from 5.25 percent previously.   
   TDThe prime rate is what banks charge their best customers, and serves as the benchmark for lending rates to all customers for mortgages, credit cards and other products.   

Most banks typically raise or lower their prime rate by an amount equal to the Fed's rate action within minutes of its decision.   
   RF7   COfuncp : Wachovia Corp.   INi814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagapf | selapfin | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | APFN Wachovia Prime Rate | D8RO2D5G0   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020070918e39i0031r  



 HDPNC Financial cuts key  interest rate  after  Federal Reserve  decision      WC128 words   PD18 September 2007   ET21:31   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPNEW YORK (AP) -  PNC Financial Services Group Inc. on Tuesday lowered its prime rate one-half of one percentage point after the Federal Reserve cut its key interest rate.   

PNC said its prime rate is now 7.75 percent. The Fed cut the federal funds rate, which is what banks charge each other for overnight loans, to 4.75 percent from 5.25 percent previously.   
   TDThe prime rate is what banks charge their best customers, and serves as the benchmark for lending rates to all customers for mortgages, credit cards and other products.   

Most banks typically raise or lower their prime rate by an amount equal to the Fed's rate action within minutes of its decision.   
   RF7   COpitnat : PNC Financial Services Group Inc   INi81501 : Credit Types/Services | ibnk : Banking/Credit | i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagapf | selapfin | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | APFN PNC Prime Rate | D8RO2FUO0   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020070918e39i0032d  



 HDM&T Bank cuts key  interest rate  to 7.75 percent after  Federal Reserve  decision      WC169 words   PD18 September 2007   ET21:41   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPNEW YORK (AP) -  M&T Bank on Tuesday said it will lower its prime rate by one-half of a percentage point, after the Federal Reserve cut its key interest rate.   

Buffalo, N.Y.-based M&T said its prime rate will decrease to 7.75 percent, down from 8.25 percent, effective Wednesday.  M&T Bank is the principal subsidiary of Buffalo-based  M&T Bank Corp.
   TDThe Fed on Tuesday cut the federal funds rate, which is what banks charge each other for overnight loans, to 4.75 percent from 5.25 percent previously.   

The prime rate is what banks charge their best customers, and serves as the benchmark for lending rates to all customers for mortgages, credit cards and other products.   

Most banks typically raise or lower their prime rate by an amount equal to the Fed's rate action within minutes of its decision.   
   RF7   COfemp : M&T Bank Corp   INi814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagapf | selapfin | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | APFN M&T Prime Rate | D8RO2KRG0   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020070918e39i00337  



 HDSunTrust cuts key  interest rate  after  Federal Reserve  decision      WC125 words   PD18 September 2007   ET22:23   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPNEW YORK (AP) -  SunTrust Banks Inc. on Tuesday lowered its prime rate one-half of one percentage point after the Federal Reserve cut its key interest rate.   

SunTrust said its prime rate is now 7.75 percent. The Fed cut the federal funds rate, which is what banks charge each other for overnight loans, to 4.75 percent from 5.25 percent previously.   
   TDThe prime rate is what banks charge their best customers, and serves as the benchmark for lending rates to all customers for mortgages, credit cards and other products.   

Most banks typically raise or lower their prime rate by an amount equal to the Fed's rate action within minutes of its decision.   
   RF7   COsunfla : SunTrust Banks Inc   INi81501 : Credit Types/Services | ibnk : Banking/Credit | i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagapf | selapfin | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | APFN SunTrust Prime Rate | D8RO38DG2   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020070918e39i003bm  



 HDUS Bancorp cuts key  interest rate  after  Federal Reserve  decision      WC151 words   PD18 September 2007   ET22:26   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPNEW YORK (AP) -  U.S. Bancorp on Tuesday said it will lower its prime rate by one-half of a percentage point, following the Federal Reserve's move to cut its key interest rate.   

Minneapolis-based  U.S. Bancorp said it will reduce its prime lending rate to 7.75 percent from 8.25 percent, effective after the close of business Tuesday. The Fed cut the federal funds rate, which is what banks charge each other for overnight loans, to 4.75 percent from 5.25 percent previously.   
   TDThe prime rate is what banks charge their best customers, and serves as the benchmark for lending rates to all customers for mortgages, credit cards and other products.   

Most banks typically raise or lower their prime rate by an amount equal to the Fed's rate action within minutes of its decision.   
   RF7   COstaban : US Bancorp (New)   INibnk : Banking/Credit | i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagapf | selapfin | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | APFN U.S. Bancorp Prime Rate | D8RO39TO0   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020070918e39i003bz  



 HDHarris Bank cuts key  interest rate  after  Federal Reserve  decision      WC135 words   PD18 September 2007   ET22:43   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPNEW YORK (AP) - Harris Bank on Tuesday lowered its prime rate by one-half of a percentage point after the Federal Reserve cut its key interest rate.   

Chicago-based Harris Bank, a unit of  Bank of Montreal, said its prime rate is now 7.75 percent. The Fed cut the federal funds rate, which is what banks charge each other for overnight loans, to 4.75 percent from 5.25 percent previously.   
   TDThe prime rate is what banks charge their best customers, and serves as the benchmark for lending rates to all customers for mortgages, credit cards and other products.   

Most banks typically raise or lower their prime rate by an amount equal to the Fed's rate action within minutes of its decision.   
   RF7   CObanmo : Bank of Montreal   INi814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagapf | selapfin | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | APFN Harris Prime Rate | D8RO3HSO0   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020070918e39i003e8  



 HDComerica cuts key  interest rate  after  Federal Reserve  decision      WC125 words   PD18 September 2007   ET22:45   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPNEW YORK (AP) -  Comerica Inc. on Tuesday lowered its prime rate one-half of one percentage point after the Federal Reserve cut its key interest rate.   

Comerica Bank said its prime rate is now 7.75 percent. The Fed cut the federal funds rate, which is what banks charge each other for overnight loans, to 4.75 percent from 5.25 percent previously.   
   TDThe prime rate is what banks charge their best customers, and serves as the benchmark for lending rates to all customers for mortgages, credit cards and other products.   

Most banks typically raise or lower their prime rate by an amount equal to the Fed's rate action within minutes of its decision.   
   RF7   COcomec : Comerica Inc   INi81501 : Credit Types/Services | ibnk : Banking/Credit | i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagapf | selapfin | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | APFN Comerica Prime Rate | D8RO3IO00   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020070918e39i003ei  



 HDNational City cuts key  interest rate  after  Federal Reserve  decision      WC127 words   PD18 September 2007   ET22:47   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPNEW YORK (AP) -  National City Corp. on Tuesday lowered its prime rate one-half of one percentage point after the Federal Reserve cut its key interest rate.   

National City said its prime rate is now 7.75 percent. The Fed cut the federal funds rate, which is what banks charge each other for overnight loans, to 4.75 percent from 5.25 percent previously.   
   TDThe prime rate is what banks charge their best customers, and serves as the benchmark for lending rates to all customers for mortgages, credit cards and other products.   

Most banks typically raise or lower their prime rate by an amount equal to the Fed's rate action within minutes of its decision.   
   RF7   COnatcor : National City Corp   INi81501 : Credit Types/Services | ibnk : Banking/Credit | i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagapf | selapfin | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | APFN National City Prime Rate | D8RO3JG00   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020070918e39i003eo  



 HDWebster Bank cuts key  interest rate  after  Federal Reserve  decision      WC135 words   PD18 September 2007   ET23:40   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPNEW YORK (AP) -  Webster Bank on Tuesday lowered its prime rate by one-half of a percentage point after the Federal Reserve cut its key interest rate.   

Waterbury, Conn.-based  Webster Bank said its prime rate is now 7.75 percent, down from 8.25 percent. The Fed cut the federal funds rate, which is what banks charge each other for overnight loans, to 4.75 percent from 5.25 percent previously.   
   TDThe prime rate is what banks charge their best customers, and serves as the benchmark for lending rates to all customers for mortgages, credit cards and other products.   

Most banks typically raise or lower their prime rate by an amount equal to the Fed's rate action within minutes of its decision.   
   RF7   COwebfin : Webster Financial Corp   INi814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagapf | selapfin | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | APFN Webster Prime Rate | D8RO4CC80   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020070918e39i003kl  



 HDCitibank cuts key  interest rate  after  Federal Reserve  decision      WC128 words   PD18 September 2007   ET23:41   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPNEW YORK (AP) - Citibank on Tuesday lowered its prime rate by one-half of a percentage point after the Federal Reserve cut its key interest rate.   

Citibank said its prime rate is now 7.75, down from 8.25 percent. The Fed cut the federal funds rate, which is what banks charge each other for overnight loans, to 4.75 percent from 5.25 percent previously.   
   TDThe prime rate is what banks charge their best customers, and serves as the benchmark for lending rates to all customers for mortgages, credit cards and other products.   

Most banks typically raise or lower their prime rate by an amount equal to the Fed's rate action within minutes of its decision.   
   RF7   COccred : Citigroup Inc.   INi81501 : Credit Types/Services | ibnk : Banking/Credit | i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagapf | selapfin | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | APFN Citigroup Prime Rate | D8RO4CP02   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020070918e39i003ks  



 HDNorthern Trust cuts key  interest rate  after  Federal Reserve  decision      WC135 words   PD18 September 2007   ET23:44   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPNEW YORK (AP) -  Northern Trust Co. on Tuesday lowered its prime rate by one-half of a percentage point after the Federal Reserve cut its key interest rate.   

Chicago-based Northern Trust said its prime rate is now 7.75 percent, down from 8.25 percent. The Fed cut the federal funds rate, which is what banks charge each other for overnight loans, to 4.75 percent from 5.25 percent previously.   
   TDThe prime rate is what banks charge their best customers, and serves as the benchmark for lending rates to all customers for mortgages, credit cards and other products.   

Most banks typically raise or lower their prime rate by an amount equal to the Fed's rate action within minutes of its decision.   
   RF7   COnrthnt : Northern Trust Corporation   INi81501 : Credit Types/Services | ibnk : Banking/Credit | i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagapf | selapfin | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | APFN Northern Trust Prime Rate | D8RO4EHO0   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020070918e39i003l4  



 HDTCF National Bank cuts key  interest rate  after  Federal Reserve  decision      WC139 words   PD18 September 2007   ET23:46   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPNEW YORK (AP) -  TCF National Bank on Tuesday lowered its prime rate by one-half of a percentage point after the Federal Reserve cut its key interest rate.   

TCF National Bank, based in Wayzata, Minn., said its prime rate is now 7.75 percent, down from 8.25 percent. The Fed cut the federal funds rate, which is what banks charge each other for overnight loans, to 4.75 percent from 5.25 percent previously.   
   TDThe prime rate is what banks charge their best customers, and serves as the benchmark for lending rates to all customers for mortgages, credit cards and other products.   

Most banks typically raise or lower their prime rate by an amount equal to the Fed's rate action within minutes of its decision.   
   RF7   COtcfnb : TCF National Bank | tcfsla : TCF Financial Corporation   INi81501 : Credit Types/Services | ibnk : Banking/Credit | i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagapf | selapfin | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | APFN TCF Bank Prime Rate | D8RO4FAG0   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020070918e39i003l7  



 HDFirstMerit cuts key  interest rate  after  Federal Reserve  decision      WC139 words   PD18 September 2007   ET23:56   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPNEW YORK (AP) - Financial services company  FirstMerit Corp. on Tuesday lowered the prime rate at its banks by one-half of a percentage point after the Federal Reserve cut its key interest rate.   

Akron, Ohio-based  FirstMerit said its prime rate is now 7.75 percent, down from 8.25 percent. The Fed cut the federal funds rate, which is what banks charge each other for overnight loans, to 4.75 percent from 5.25 percent previously.   
   TDThe prime rate is what banks charge their best customers, and serves as the benchmark for lending rates to all customers for mortgages, credit cards and other products.   

Most banks typically raise or lower their prime rate by an amount equal to the Fed's rate action within minutes of its decision.   
   RF7   COfbo : FirstMerit Corporation   INi81501 : Credit Types/Services | ibnk : Banking/Credit | i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagapf | selapfin | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | APFN FirstMerit Prime Rate | D8RO4JS80   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020070918e39i003lw  



 HDCity National Bank cuts key  interest rate  after  Federal Reserve  decision      WC139 words   PD18 September 2007   ET23:59   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPNEW YORK (AP) - City National Bank on Tuesday lowered its prime rate by a one-half of a percentage point after the Federal Reserve cut its key interest rate.   

Los Angeles-based City National Bank said its prime rate is now 7.75 percent, down from 8.25 percent. The Fed cut the federal funds rate, which is what banks charge each other for overnight loans, to 4.75 percent from 5.25 percent previously.   
   TDThe prime rate is what banks charge their best customers, and serves as the benchmark for lending rates to all customers for mortgages, credit cards and other products.   

Most banks typically raise or lower their prime rate by an amount equal to the Fed's rate action within minutes of its decision.   
   RF7   INi81501 : Credit Types/Services | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagapf | selapfin | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | APFN City National Bank Prime Rate | D8RO4LF81   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020070918e39i003m3  



 HDBank of America cuts key  interest rate  after  Federal Reserve  decision      WC127 words   PD18 September 2007   ET20:22   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPNEW YORK (AP) -  Bank of America on Tuesday lowered its prime rate one-half of a percentage point after the Federal Reserve cut its key interest rate.   

BofA said its prime rate is now 7.75 percent. The Fed cut the federal funds rate, which is what banks charge each other for overnight loans, to 4.75 percent from 5.25 percent previously.   
   TDThe prime rate is what banks charge their best customers, and serves as the benchmark for lending rates to all customers for mortgages, credit cards and other products.   

Most banks typically raise or lower their prime rate by an amount equal to the Fed's rate action within minutes of its decision.   
   RF5   COncnbco : Bank of America Corporation   INi81501 : Credit Types/Services | ibnk : Banking/Credit | i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagapf | selapfin | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | APFN Bank of America Prime Rate | D8RO1FFO0   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020070918e39i002vv  



 HDRestaurants rise after  Federal Reserve  cuts key  interest rate  to help jumpstart economy      WC253 words   PD18 September 2007   ET20:28   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPNEW YORK (AP) - Restaurant stocks rose Tuesday after the Federal Reserve loosened its monetary policy and cut a key interest rate by half of a percentage point to boost the slowing economy.   

The cut reduced the federal funds rate -- the rate banks charge each other on overnight loans -- to 4.75 percent. The reduction in the rate was the Fed's first in four years.   
   TDAnalysts and investors had widely expected either a quarter of a percentage point cut or a half-point cut in the rate. Last month's decline in jobs and weakening retail sales coupled with a weakening housing sector, tightened credit markets and stock market volatility all gave investors hope that the Fed would make the move.   

Restaurant analysts mainly see restaurants as beneficiaries of a rate cut since it could boost consumers' discretionary spending.   

Here is how some key restaurants stocks were doing Tuesday afternoon, shortly after the Fed move:   

Applebee's International Inc. rose 9 cents to $24.80,   

Cheesecake Factory Inc. gained 43 cents to $24.31,   

P.F. Chang's China Bistro Inc. added 72 cents, or 2.3 percent, to $31.45,   

Darden Restaurants Inc. climbed $1.18, or 2.8 percent, to $45.53,   

Morton's Restaurant Group Inc. increased 42 cents, or 2.8 percent, to $15.25,   

Brinker International Inc. rose 43 cents to $27.71, and   

California Pizza Kitchen Inc. gained 25 cents to $18.47.   
   RF7   COappbi : Applebee's International Inc   INi66 : Hotels/Restaurants/Casinos | i661 : Restaurants/Cafes/Fast Food Places | i6611 : Full-service Restaurants   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | m11 : Equity Markets | ecat : Economic News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagapf | selapfin | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | APFN Sector Glance Restaurants | D8RO1IK01   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020070918e39i002we  



 HDWells Fargo cuts key  interest rate  after  Federal Reserve  decision      WC126 words   PD18 September 2007   ET20:48   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPNEW YORK (AP) -  Wells Fargo on Tuesday lowered its prime rate one-half of a percentage point after the Federal Reserve cut its key interest rate.   

Wells Fargo said its prime rate is now 7.75 percent. The Fed cut the federal funds rate, which is what banks charge each other for overnight loans, to 4.75 percent from 5.25 percent previously.   
   TDThe prime rate is what banks charge their best customers, and serves as the benchmark for lending rates to all customers for mortgages, credit cards and other products.   

Most banks typically raise or lower their prime rate by an amount equal to the Fed's rate action within minutes of its decision.   
   RF7   COnwbc : Wells Fargo & Company   INi81501 : Credit Types/Services | ibnk : Banking/Credit | i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagapf | selapfin | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | APFN Wells Fargo Prime Rate | D8RO1RT80   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020070918e39i002yh  



 HDRPT-PREVIEW-U.S. rate cut, Bernanke's first, looms amid turmoil      WC850 words   PD17 September 2007   ET15:48   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007 Reuters Limited   
   LP(Repeats story that originally ran on Sept. 16 with no changes to headline or text)   

* What: The Federal Reserve's policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee meets   
   TD* When: Tuesday, Sept. 18; statement expected around 2:15 p.m. EDT. (1815 GMT)   

* Fed expected to lower benchmark overnight borrowing costs from 5.25 percent to either 4.75 percent or 5 percent   

By Ros Krasny   

CHICAGO, Sept 16 (Reuters) - A long period of stasis in Federal Reserve monetary policy looks certain to end on Tuesday with a U.S. interest-rate cut, leaving the question of how much further rates may drop and how fast.   

The rate-setting Federal Open Market Committee is tipped to lower its target for the overnight federal funds rate by either one-quarter or one-half percentage point from the current 5.25 percent, where it has been since June 2006.   

Signs of economic trouble, capped off by a surprising drop in U.S. jobs in August, have opened the door for the Fed to deliver the rate cut so desperately wanted on Wall Street after a month of turmoil in global financial markets.   

"The market is now increasingly focused on the economic fallout from the tighter credit conditions, which is tantamount to a tighter monetary policy," said Marc Chandler, chief global currency strategist at  Brown Brothers Harriman in New York.   

Indeed, prospects for a return to sub-par growth after a strong second quarter have even raised the specter of recession. While economists disagree on the probability of a downturn, they agree risks have risen.   

The rate cut expected on Tuesday would be the first under the leadership of Ben Bernanke, the former Princeton University economist who took over from Alan Greenspan as Fed chairman in February last year.   

Some analysts think the Bernanke Fed, whose approach to policy changes seems more deliberative and model-driven than the approach taken by Greenspan, is already behind the curve.   

"Events are moving rapidly in a negative direction, and the Fed needs to get out in front of them," said Carl Tannenbaum, chief economist at LaSalle Bank in Chicago.   

"Many still feel that monetary policy should not be based solely on the most likely outlook, but also influenced by the risks to that outlook."   

25 or 50?   

Financial dealers are split on how aggressively the Fed will act this week, and rhetoric from policy makers has suggested they have differing views as well.   

Some Fed officials have suggested dramatic action may be warranted to offer quick support to a falter economy.   

Others have been more cautious, stressing the economy's resilience and the importance of not taking unneeded steps that would bail out market participants who have taken a bath with investments tied to subprime mortgages.   

San Francisco Federal Reserve Bank President Janet Yellen said on Monday that turbulence in financial markets and a tumbling housing sector had created "significant downward pressure" on the economy.   

On the same day, though, Dallas Fed President Richard Fisher said the economy appeared "to be weathering the storm thus far." While neither has a vote this year on the FOMC, both will participate in the panel's discussions.   

Regardless of the outcome of Tuesday's meeting, markets anticipate more rate cuts ahead.   

Futures contracts measuring expectations for Fed policy suggest benchmark overnight rates will be near 4.5 percent by year's-end, three-quarters of a point, or 75 basis points, below their current level, and close to 4.25 percent by mid-2008.   

"A plausible range on the extent of the anticipated Fed easing in the coming months might lie between 75 basis points and 125 basis points," said Thomas Lam, Treasury economist at  United Overseas Bank Group in Singapore.   

Once the Fed tilts policy in a new direction, a series of rate moves are usually in store, although the size and speed of subsequent shifts in credit costs can vary.   

Since the late 1980s the average reduction in the target rate in an easing cycle has been about 175 basis points, a figure skewed by the 550 basis points reduction seen in 2001 through 2003. A basis point is one hundredth of 1 percent.   

"The Fed has usually reduced the target fed funds rate by at least 75 basis points," Lam said.   

Robert Barbera, an economist at ITG Hoenig in Rye Brook, New York, sees economic growth over the second half of the year slipping to a sluggish 1.3 percent annual pace, and thinks the Fed could be forced to push the target funds rate as low as 4 percent over the next few quarters to avert recession.   

"Rising joblessness amid meager real economic growth is a strikingly disappointing backdrop, all the more so if you are a newly minted Fed chairman," he said. "If the U.S. is entering a recession with the core (inflation) below 2 percent, it will be labeled a policy error."   
   RFUSA-FED/ (PREVIEW) (REPEAT)|LANGEN|ABN|C|D|E|M|O|U|MTL|GRO|SOF|OIL|MNI   INicre : Construction/Real Estate   NSe1101 : Economic Growth | e1122 : Mortgage Applications/Refinancing | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | e1202 : Interest Rates | gvexe : Executive Branch | m131 : Money Markets | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCWASH | FED | CEN | MCE | PLCY | STIR | INT | PRE | REA | REAM | MTG | DBT | MMT | FIN | BNK | EMBG:DBT | EMBG:PLCY | embargokeyE1   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020070920e39h001id  



 HDPOLL-Analysts split on whether Norway to up rates Sept      WC807 words   PD19 September 2007   ET16:34   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007 Reuters Limited   
   LP* What: Norwegian central bank's main interest rate

* When: Wednesday, Sept. 26   
   TD* Economists evenly divided on whether  Norges Bank will raise rates by a quarter percentage point to 5.00 percent or wait until October   

By Camilla Bergsli and Camilla Knudsen   

OSLO, Sept 19 (Reuters) - Economists are evenly divided on whether Norway's central bank will raise its main interest rate next week or wait until October due to international financial turmoil, a Reuters poll showed on Wednesday.   

The increased uncertainty from international markets has also led some economists to lower their forecasts for  Norges Bank's deposit rate at the end of the year, with four now expecting an end-year level of 5.0 percent.   

Five of the 10 economists predicted that  Norges Bank would raise its deposit rate by a quarter percentage point to 5.00 percent on Sept. 26, and five expected the bank to wait until its next policy meeting on Oct. 31, the poll found.   

The U.S. Federal Reserve cut its benchmark rate on Tuesday by 50 basis points to shield the economy from a housing slump and financial turbulence. Economists disagreed over what influence the Fed's cut would have on  Norges Bank.

Banking group  DnB NOR said it still expected  Norges Bank to raise rates to 5.0 percent next week and forecast the deposit rate would peak at 6.0 percent in 2008, but said the Fed move might lead it to lower its forecast for Norwegian rates ahead.   

"The Fed is considerably more worried about the real economy, and lower growth will have an effect on  Norges Bank," said Kyrre Aamdal, senior analyst at  DnB NOR Markets. "A stronger crown, caused by an increased spread in interest rates, is pulling down inflation, which also has importance."   

Some economists said  Norges Bank would focus on the domestic economy where all indicators point to the bank sticking to the rising path for rates signalled in its last monetary policy report in June.   

Analyst Tina Mortensen at  Citigroup said that the Fed's cut would make  Norges Bank's job easier. "The Fed cut has led to rising risk appetite and will have a positive effect on global growth which will make it easier for  Norges Bank to raise rates in line with what they have said," Mortensen said.   

Norges Bank last raised its interest rates on Aug. 15 by 25 basis points to 4.75 percent and repeated that the deposit rate would be lifted to around 5.25 percent by year-end and to a peak of 5.75 percent next year.   

It was the 12th increase in a tightening cycle that began in mid-2005 from an all-time low of 1.75 percent.   

SPLIT ABOUT PEAK   

Six of the economists saw the deposit rate at 5.25 percent at the end of 2007, while four expected the rate to be at 5.00 percent. Estimates diverged more on next year.   

Two economists saw the interest rate remaining at 5.0 percent in 2008 and two predicted a peak of 5.25 percent, while one forecast it at 5.50, four at 5.75 and one at 6.0 percent.   

Despite core inflation lagging the central bank's target of 2.5 percent in 1-3 years time,  Norges Bank has raised rates to try to cool a booming Norwegian economy.   

Core inflation surprised economists in August when it rose to 1.8 percent from 1.4 percent in July, exceeding a median expectation in a Reuters poll of 1.6 percent.   

Following is a table of forecasts for the deposit rate after the bank's Sept. 26 meeting and at the end of specific periods. All figures are in percent.    


                 Sept     Oct   End07   End01  EndQ2  End08
  Citigroup          5.00    5.00    5.25    5.50   5.75   5.75
  DnB NOR            5.00    5.00    5.25    5.75   6.00   6.00
  Deutsche Bank      4.75    5.00    5.00    5.25   5.25   5.25
 First              4.75    5.00    5.00    5.25   5.50   5.50
 Handelsbanken      4.75    5.00    5.00    5.00   5.00   5.00
 IDEA               4.75    5.00    5.00    n/a    5.00   5.00
 Nordea             5.00    5.00    5.25    5.50   5.75   5.75
 SEB Norge          5.00*   5.00    5.25    n/a    5.50   5.75
 Terra              5.00    5.00    5.25    5.25   5.25   5.25
 4Cast              4.75    5.00    5.25    5n/a   5.50   5.75
   

* SEB Norge said there was a 50/50 percent chance for a rate rise in September or October.   
   RFNORWAY-RATES/ (POLL)|LANGEN|Table|ABN|M|E|RBN|D|DA|FN|NW|SW|BNX   CObknorw : Norges Bank   INicre : Construction/Real Estate | i814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe1201 : Central Bank Intervention | m131 : Money Markets | ntab : Table | e1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | niwe : IWE Filter   REeurz : Europe | norw : Norway | usa : United States | weurz : Western Europe | namz : North America | nordz : Nordic Countries | scandz : Scandinavia   IPCCEN | MCE | INT | DBT | MMT | REA | EMBG:DBT | embargokeyE1   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020070922e39j000if  



 HDUPDATE 1-Fed seen cutting rates as housing slump weighs      BYBy Mark Felsenthal      WC668 words   PD18 September 2007   ET16:04   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007 Reuters Limited   
   LP(Updates with meeting start, data on producer prices)   

WASHINGTON, Sept 18 (Reuters) - The U.S. Federal Reserve is expected to chart a new course on Tuesday and cut benchmark interest rates for the first time since mid-2003 to protect the economy from a housing downturn and jittery credit markets.   
   TDPolicy-makers at the central bank started their one-day meeting at about 8:30 a.m. (1230 GMT), a Fed official said. A statement outlining the committee's decision is due at about 2:15 p.m. (1815 GMT).   

The Fed will weigh fresh data from Tuesday showing producer prices fell more than expected in August as energy prices dropped, while a core measure of inflation at the producer level rose slightly more than forecast.   

Interest rate futures markets lowered the implied chances of a half-percentage point rate cut after the data.   

Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke said late last month the central bank stood ready to act as necessary to limit damage to the broader economy from the housing slump and turbulence in credit markets nervous about a wave of mortgage delinquencies.   

Bernanke's remarks were seen as opening the door to lower rates, and a report on Aug. 7 showing the economy shed jobs in August for the first time in four years was seen as cementing the case for cutting overnight borrowing costs from their current 5.25 percent level.   

The only question seemed to be how large a reduction may be in store. Through last week, federal funds futures markets showed investors saw a somewhat greater probability of a half-percentage point cut in the overnight fed funds rate than a quarter-point.   

However, futures dealers have trimmed their bets of aggressive action this week. Implied chances of a half-percentage point rate cut slipped to 40 percent after the producer price data suggested inflationary forces may yet be a factor in the central bank's thinking.   

"Core PPI is a mild disappointment and highlights the tough spot the Fed is in right now," said John Miller, head of fund management at Nuveen Investments in Chicago.   

DIFFERING VIEWS   

Comments by Fed officials, even after the weak employment report showed housing-related woes taking a toll on the broader economy, suggested they hold differing views on the appropriate monetary tonic.   

San Francisco Federal Reserve Bank President Janet Yellen said there was evidence of "significant downward pressure" on the economy. In contrast, Dallas Fed President Richard Fisher said the economy "appeared to be weathering the storm thus far."   

The last time the Fed lowered the bellwether federal funds rate was in June 2003, when it made the last of 13 reductions over two-and-a-half years that took borrowing costs to a 1958-matching low of 1 percent.   

Former Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan, in recent interviews promoting his memoir, said Bernanke's Fed faces more risks from inflation now than he did during that rate-cutting spree.   

"We could ease without fear of stoking inflationary pressures," he told Reuters on Monday. "We couldn't do that in today's environment."   

The Fed has held the federal funds rate, its main tool for influencing the economy, steady since June of last year. However, in mid-August it lowered the discount rate that governs direct Fed loans to banks in an effort to unfreeze credit markets unsettled by mortgage defaults.   

A cut in overnight rates on Tuesday would mark a sharp shift for the U.S. central bank, which said after their last regularly scheduled meeting on Aug. 7 that inflation remained their predominant concern.   

The Fed's policy-setting panel, however, said on Aug. 17 that tighter credit conditions had "appreciably" raised the risk that the economy could stumble badly.   
   RFUSA-FED/ (UPDATE 1)|LANGEN|ABN|C|D|E|M|O|U|MTL|GRO|SOF|OIL|G|RBN|MNI|AFA|CSA|LBY|RWSA|RWS|REULB|GNS|ABX|BNX|RNP   INicre : Construction/Real Estate   NSe1122 : Mortgage Applications/Refinancing | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | e1202 : Interest Rates | gcat : Political/General News | gvexe : Executive Branch | m131 : Money Markets | ntop : Dow Jones/Reuters Top Wire News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCWASH | FED | CEN | MCE | PLCY | STIR | INT | REA | REAM | MTG | DBT | MMT | FIN | BNK | NEWS   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020070918e39i0007f  



 HDGreenspan says hopes to reclaim privacy -PBS      WC488 words   PD19 September 2007   ET01:17   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007 Reuters Limited   
   LPWASHINGTON, Sept 18 (Reuters) - Former Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan said he "feels a little more relaxed" speaking publicly now that his successor, Ben Bernanke, is established in his job, but that he longs for the day when he can reclaim some privacy.   

In an interview on the PBS program "NewsHour with Jim Lehrer" set to air on Wednesday, Greenspan said he has gone to pains to avoid roiling the waters for his successor, although he admits he has not always been successful.   
   TD"I have endeavored to be as insulated as I can get," Greenspan said of his return to private life and his former business of economic consulting. "I'm successful 98 percent of the time, but 2 percent is very disturbing to me. And I don't know what to do about it."   

Greenspan, now 81, has been pushing the publication of his memoir, "The Age of Turbulence: Adventures in a New World," released earlier this week, with a blitz of media interviews.   

As chairman of the Fed, Greenspan had his hands on the U.S. interest-rate lever and his mere words could move markets. While he no longer has a say on where interest rates are heading, he has found his words still hold some sway.   

Shortly after leaving office on Jan. 31 of last year, Greenspan hit the high-paid lecture circuit and drew fire for speaking to a number of financial firms behind closed doors. Some of his comments leaked out and moved markets.   

In February, he said it was possible the United States could slip into recession by year-end, a comment some analysts cited as a factor behind a sharp global equities sell-off.   

"I'm fully aware of the fact that in the early months of when I left office that anything I would say could create a problem for my successor, Ben Bernanke, but fortunately he is so ensconced now and his reputation is unquestioned -- I think he is doing an excellent job -- that I'm feeling a little more relaxed on the issue," Greenspan told NewsHour.   

"People say, 'Well, you just ought to keep quiet.' And I say, 'Why?' And they say, 'Because your words mean something.' I say, 'You mean if I were a lousy Federal Reserve chairman nobody would care for what I said, so I'm being punished because I'm supposed to be saying something people are interested in?'"   

But Greenspan said once he wraps up the current publicity push for his book, he hopes to fade into the background.   

"I'm going to try to see if I can manage to work my way back to some degree of anonymity and privacy," he said.   
   RFUSA-GREENSPAN/PRIVACY|LANGEN|AFA|CSA|LBY|RWSA|RWS|REULB|GNS|ABX|BNX|G|RBN|ABN|C|D|E|M|O|U|MTL|GRO|SOF|OIL|MNI|RNP   NSe1201 : Central Bank Intervention | e1202 : Interest Rates | gvexe : Executive Branch | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCWASH | FED | CEN | MCE | STIR | INT   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020070918e39i00275  



 HDUPDATE 7-Copper extends gains after U.S. Fed rate cut      BYBy Pratima Desai      WC939 words   PD18 September 2007   ET04:17   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007 Reuters Limited   
   LP(Recasts, updates with New York closing copper prices, adds U.S. Federal Reserve interest rate action, Fed comment, adds Southern Copper update, adds NEW YORK to dateline)   

LONDON/NEW York, Sept 18 (Reuters) - Copper prices extended gains after the close on Tuesday as investors digested a hefty half-percentage-point interest rate cut in the United States.   
   TDAluminium hit an 18-month low on worries about falling demand from the United States.   

Nickel, a key ingredient of stainless steel industry, jumped almost 6 percent to a seven-week high on expectations of stainless steel demand recovering, analysts said.   

Generally firmer base metal prices and a pledge by the British government to guarantee all deposits held by  Northern Rock helped boost London stocks including miners such as BHP Billiton and  Rio Tinto . [ID:nL18822460]   

Copper <MCU3> for delivery in three months on the London Metal Exchange ended the open-outcry trade at $7,585 a tonne, up from $7,500 on Monday and Friday's one-month high at $7,622 a tonne.   

In New York, copper for December delivery <HGZ7> settled up 2.80 cents or 0.8 percent to $3.4480 a lb on the New York Mercantile Exchange's COMEX division. After the Fed announcement, the contract rallied 8.00 cents to $3.50, its highest level since Aug. 8.   

In a unanimous decision, the U.S. Federal Reserve slashed benchmark U.S. interest rates by a half-percentage point to 4.75 percent, its lowest level since May of last year. The Fed also lowered the discount rate it charges for direct loans to banks by a half-point to 5.25 percent.   

"Today's action is intended to help forestall some of the adverse effects on the broader economy that might otherwise arise from the disruptions in financial markets and to promote moderate growth over time," the Fed said in a statement outlining its decision.   

Economic slowdown in the United States and the chances of it spreading to other countries could mean lower copper prices, although many analysts expect demand from the fast-growing China to support prices of industrial metals.   

Further support was seen from tense labor negotiations in Peru, where union leaders cut off wage contract talks with Southern Copper on Tuesday, and planned to strike.   

"All types of meetings with the company have ended. The company left the negotiating table and we are going today (Tuesday) to talk with the rank-and-file workers to hold meetings and work on the timetable for the strike at Ilo, Toquepala and Cuajone," Arnaldo Oviedo, head of the Ilo union, told Reuters.   

"We think we will present the strike date next week," he added.[ID:nN18446720]   

NICKEL SOARS   

Three-months nickel <MNI3> hit a seven-week high of $30,850 a tonne, its highest level since Aug. 2, and ended the open-outcry session at $30,700, up 5.9 percent or $1,700 from Monday.   

"It looks like short covering going on in this (nickel) market," analyst Jim Lennon at  Macquarie Bank said.   

"It has been a big bear market since May and now there's growing speculation that we're reaching the bottom of de-stocking cycle in stainless steel and there should be some rebound in demand," he said.   

Nickel prices fell some 50 percent since early May, when they hit an all-time high of $51,800 a tonne, as production cutback in the stainless steel industry weighed on prices.   

The world's fourth-largest steelmaker,  POSCO , said stainless steel was due to rebound in October. [ID:nSE0112151]   

"Jinchuan Group, Asia's biggest nickel producer, has raised the price of refined nickel for the second time this month in response to mounting demand for stainless steel," Commerzbank said in a research note.   

Three-month aluminium <MAL3> closed at $2,407, up $12 from Monday.   

Earlier it fell to $2,382 a tonne, the lowest since March 13, 2006, as the market priced in rising supplies and inventories and speculators added to short -- bets on lower prices -- positions.   

Over the next few weeks, analysts expect prices to fall further as China hikes production and demand from the United States falls.   

Zinc <MZN3> was $60 firmer at $2,840 while tin <MSN3> was $210 up at $15,010/15,020 and lead <MPB3> edged up $10 to $3,140. Metal Prices at 1416 GMT:    


 Metal            Last      Change  Pct Move   End 2006   Ytd Pct
                                                         move
 LME Cu        7565.00       65.00     +0.87    6330.00     19.51
 SHFE Cu*     65830.00     -370.00     -0.56   60080.00      9.57
 LME Alum      2407.00       12.00     +0.50    2805.00    -14.19
 SHFE Alu*    19250.00      -40.00     -0.21   20550.00     -6.33
 COMEX Cu**     344.80        3.05     +0.89     287.10     20.09
 LME Zinc      2820.00      -20.00     -0.70    4230.00    -33.33
 SHFE Zinc*   25795.00     -335.00     -1.28   28915.00    -10.79
 LME Nick     30700.00     1700.00     +5.86   33325.00     -7.88
 LME Lead      3140.00       10.00     +0.32    1670.00     88.02
 LME Tin      15010.00     -190.00     -1.25   11510.00     30.41 ** 1st
   

contract month for COMEX copper * 3rd contact month for SHFE AL, CU and ZN SHFE ZN began trading on 26/3/07 (Additional reporting by Daniel Magnowski and Humeyra Pamuk in London, Chris Kelly in New York)   
   RFMARKETS-METALS (UPDATE 7)|LANGEN|Table|ABN|C|GRO|MTL|SOF|E|RBN|M|D|O|OIL|UKI|U   COnrbs : Northern Rock PLC   INi224 : Non-ferrous Metals | i22 : Primary Metals | imet : Metals/Mining | i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSgcat : Political/General News | m15 : Derivative Securities | ntab : Table | ntop : Dow Jones/Reuters Top Wire News | e1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | niwe : IWE Filter   REasiaz : Asia | austr : Australia | china : China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | eurz : Europe | hkong : Hong Kong | india : India | jap : Japan | singp : Singapore | skorea : South Korea | uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | weurz : Western Europe | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | chinaz : Greater China | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | eecz : European Union Countries | indsubz : Indian Subcontinent | namz : North America | sasiaz : Southern Asia | seasiaz : Southeast Asia   IPCMET | DRV | FUND | MET/L | NEWS   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020070918e39i0005l  



 HDSE Asia Stocks-Surge on U.S. rate cut, Singapore at 2-mth high   BYBy Koh Gui Qing     WC590 words   PD19 September 2007   ET12:10   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007 Reuters Limited  
   LPSINGAPORE, Sept 19 (Reuters) - Southeast Asian stocks surged on Wednesday, with Singapore shares posting their best one-day gain in a month, as a bold U.S. interest rate cut powered blue chips such as the region's top telecom SingTel and lender DBS.

Investors said the U.S. Federal Reserve interest rate cut overnight by half a percentage point to 4.75 percent allayed their fears about a sharp slowdown in the U.S. economy, Asia's largest export market.
   TD"It's really a relief that the U.S. Fed is focusing on the economy rather than inflation," said Khiem Do, who manages more than $400 million at Baring Asset Management in Hong Kong.

"At least the fear of a U.S. recession has diminished for now," he said.

Investors expect the lower U.S. interest rates to prompt Asian central banks to cut rates as well. Central banks in the Philippines and Indonesia said on Wednesday there was room for more rate cuts. [ID:nSP65482] [ID:nJAK95365]

Singapore's key Straits Times Index <.STI> jumped 3.4 


percent -- its biggest one-day rise in percentage terms since
Aug. 20 -- to a 2-month high. As of Wednesday's close, the
   

index is 2.6 percent below its record high of 3,688.58 points hit on July 16.

Elsewhere, the Indonesian stock index <.JKSE> jumped 3.3 percent to its highest level since Aug. 1, Malaysian shares <.KLSE> added 1.6 percent, and Thai shares <.SETI> were up 1.2 percent by 0937 GMT. The Philippines' key index <.PSI> climbed 2.2 percent, and the Vietnam stock market <.VNI> rose 1.2 percent.

In Singapore, blue-chip stocks led gains. Singapore Telecommunications ( SingTel) , Southeast Asia's largest telecom, jumped 4.2 percent to S$3.98, a level last seen in June 1996. Keppel Corp , the world's top rig builder, climbed 4.5 percent.

Oil prices <CLc1> climbed over $82 a barrel on Wednesday, near a record reached a day earlier. [ID:nSP99232]

Shares in property developers and banks -- which stand to benefit from lower interest rates thanks to stronger demand for real estate and loans -- rose too.

Southeast Asia's top two property developers CapitaLand and City Developments jumped 3.8 percent and 4.6 percent, respectively.

DBS Group , Southeast Asia's largest lender, added 4.2 percent, United Overseas Bank , Singapore's second-biggest lender, climbed 3.9 percent, and Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp rose 3.5 percent.

Lorraine Tan, regional strategist at Standard & Poor's, said while investors should expect more financial institutions to fall victim to the U.S. subprime mortgage crisis, she overweights banking stocks in Singapore, Malaysia and Hong Kong.

This is because the subprime fallout would have limited impact on their earnings, she said.

"There should still be some bad news coming up, but whenever there is a dip in Asia, we see it as a buying opportunity," Tan said.

In Malaysia, the largest lender Malayan Banking Bhd rose 1.8 percent. Bumiputra-Commerce Holdings , the second-biggest bank, added 1.9 percent, while Public Bank Bhd , the No. 3 bank, climbed 1.6 percent.

In Jakarta, PT Bank Mandiri Tbk , the largest lender, leapt 6.3 percent, and PT Bank Central Asia Tbk , the second-biggest lender, added 3.4 percent. 
   RFMARKETS-SOUTHEASTASIA/STOCKS|LANGEN|Table|ABN|E|RBN|SI|PHD|IF|ABX|RNP|DNP|PTD|PMF   COtelas : Singapore Telecommunications Limited | devbnk : DBS Group Holdings Limited | tmasek : Temasek Holdings Pte Ltd   INi7902 : Telecommunications | i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSntab : Table | e1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | niwe : IWE Filter   REasiaz : Asia | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | indon : Indonesia | malay : Malaysia | phlns : Philippines | singp : Singapore | thail : Thailand | usa : United States | vietn : Vietnam | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | indochz : Indo-China | namz : North America | seasiaz : Southeast Asia   IPC.SO | .BK   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020070919e39j0024w  



 HDANALYSIS-Bernanke bets the house in rate cut gamble      BYBy Pedro Nicolaci da Costa      WC773 words   PD19 September 2007   ET22:29   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007 Reuters Limited   
   LPNEW YORK, Sept 19 (Reuters) - Federal Reserve chief Ben Bernanke has opened the floodgates of cash, a high-risk bid to shore up the economy that could prolong the housing market pain it intended to forestall.   

Investor reaction to the central bank's aggressive half percentage point reduction in the benchmark interest rate to 4.75 percent was unequivocal.   
   TDStocks rallied on the belief that a return to easy money would revitalize the economy and corporate profits. But long-dated Treasury price dived, pushing long-term interest rates higher as inflation vigilantes in the bond market worried the Fed was letting down its guard on price stability.   

This means the very sector that has dragged economic growth into a rut -- housing -- could be challenged further as 30-year mortgage rates, linked closely to 10-year Treasury yields, shoot higher.   

"Fed easing may drive up the yield curve from the long end, which tends to drive up mortgage rates, triggering sharper interest rate resets," warns Ashraf Laidi, chief FX analyst at CMC Markets US. "This may also mean a faster pick up in the rate of mortgage delinquencies and potential evictions, which should trigger a notable scaling back in consumption."   

Yields on 10-year Treasuries <US10YT=RR> jumped up immediately after the Fed's decision Tuesday and extended that rise on Wednesday to 4.54 percent, their biggest one-day spike in six weeks. If inflation fears linger, higher mortgage rates might follow.   

HELICOPTER BEN?   

Bernanke grappled with doubts over his inflation-fighting credentials early in his tenure as Fed Chairman. His vocal and, in hindsight, misguided focus on the threat of deflation won him the nickname "helicopter Ben," a reference to comments he once made about taking extreme action to stem a prolonged economic slump like Japan's.   

Still, strong statements to the contrary eventually won him many fans on Wall Street. Now, analysts are questioning this professed focus.   

Critics also argue that, despite assurances from policy-makers, the Fed's move looks like a rescue of Wall Street -- and one that might hurt Main Street as well.   

"This is a pretty blatant bailout for excessive risk-taking over the past few years," said Robert Macintosh, chief economist at  Eaton Vance Management in Boston.   

"This should make people less confident for the Fed to achieve their number one objective which is keeping inflation at bay."   

Indeed, history suggests mortgage rates will follow long-term bond yields higher, particularly if inflation fears become pervasive.   

Over the past 10 years, 30-year fixed-rate mortgages for prime borrowers have featured interest rates anywhere from 1.38 percent to 2.26 percent above 10-year note yields. That spread mushroomed as much as a half percentage point in just the last three months as banks clammed up on lending.   

And things could get worse as several inflation signals are flashing red. Yields on the 30-year bond <US30YT=RR>, the most sensitive to long-term inflation expectations, have climbed nearly a quarter percentage point since the prospect of a heftier rate cut was first floated following a jobs report that showed the first contraction in hiring in four years.   

Other forces are also at work that may exacerbate the inflation pressures already running through the economy.   

Oil prices, for one thing, continue to carve out record highs, the latest registering well over $82 a barrel. Gold, seen as another signpost of future inflation, has hit a 28-year high.   

To be sure, U.S. core inflation has been creeping lower.   

But it has yet to fall convincingly within the Fed's comfort zone of 1-2 percent. Moreover, economists have grown increasingly impatient with the use of a measure that excludes essential items like food and energy. The core inflation figure, they say, masks the rising cost of living and therefore arguably under-rewards bondholders for the extra risk.   

Some also maintain a softening economy exerts enough of a drag on prices to prevent inflation from building.   

But that pull is a double-edged, with the dollar's steady downward slog pushing up the prices of imports that represent a key component of economic activity.   

The path between too little growth and too much inflation is a narrow one.   

"The Fed is clearly concerned about lending or lack thereof crimping economic activity and for now is willing to trade inflation for economic stability," said Tom Sowanick, chief investment officer at Clearbrook Financial in Princeton, New Jersey.   
   RFUSA-FED/GAMBLE (ANALYSIS)|LANGEN|ABN|E|RBN|D|U|M|O|OIL   INicre : Construction/Real Estate   NSe1122 : Mortgage Applications/Refinancing | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | gcat : Political/General News | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ntop : Dow Jones/Reuters Top Wire News | e1202 : Interest Rates | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCMCE | FED | MTG | DBT | CEN | PLCY | INT | GVD | REA | OIL | NEWS | EMBG:DBT | EMBG:PLCY | embargokeyE1E1E1E1   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020070922e39j000o6  



 HDGLOBAL MARKETS-Stocks rally after Fed cut; dollar slides      BYBy Eriko Amaha and Ian Chua      WC910 words   PD19 September 2007   ET07:57   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007 Reuters Limited   
   LP(Updates prices throughout)   

TOKYO/HONG KONG, Sept 19 (Reuters) - Asian stocks powered higher on Wednesday as a bold U.S. Federal Reserve interest rate cut raised hopes for the U.S. economy, but the dollar plumbed a 15-year low versus a basket of currencies.   
   TDFinancial bookmakers predicted European stocks would open sharply higher, with Britain's FTSE 100 index seen up by as much as 1.3 percent, Germany's DAX opening 1.6 percent higher and France's CAC up 2 percent.   

U.S. crude hovered within reach of a fresh all-time high of $82.38 set overnight as the Fed rate cut eased worries of a sharp slowdown in the world's top energy consumer, while gold was also near a 16-month peak of $726 an ounce with a weak dollar driving investors to seek safer investments.   

The Fed slashed its benchmark fed funds rate by half a percentage point to 4.75 percent to "help forestall some of the adverse effects on the broader economy that might otherwise arise from the disruptions in financial markets and to promote moderate growth over time".   

Investors welcomed the move, though some remained cautious.   

"The market is now watching to see if Wall Street rallies again, or if yesterday's moves were a one-off, with attention on brokerage earnings," said Yutaka Miura, a senior technical analyst at Shinko Securities.   

By 0620 GMT, MSCI's measure of Asia Pacific stocks excluding Japan had risen 3.8 percent to its best level in 8 weeks, and is now just 2 percent off its July 24 life high.   

Tokyo's Nikkei ended 3.7 percent higher at a two-week high. The Japanese stock market showed little reaction to the Bank of Japan's decision to keep its target interest rate unchanged at 0.50 percent as expected.   

But government bond futures fell sharply as the BOJ decision was not unanimous, indicating a possibility of a gradual rise in interest rates.   

South Korea's KOSPI rose 3.5 percent and Australia's S&P/ASX 200 index added 2.6 percent. Hong Kong's Hang Seng jumped 3.8 percent, while Taiwan's index, closed on Tuesday due to a typhoon, added 0.3 percent.   

China's Shanghai Composite Index slipped 0.06 percent due partly to supply concerns following Shenhua Energy's Shanghai IPO that is expected to be China's biggest.   

BANKS, EXPORTERS UP   

Bank shares, which had been battered by worries about a global credit shortage stemming from the U.S. subprime mortgage crisis, led gains across Asia, helped by better-than-expected earnings from Lehman Brothers   

Australia's Macquarie Bank, National Australia Bank, South Korea's top lender Kookmin Bank and Japan's Mitsubishi UFG all surged.   

The MSCI index of financial stocks in the region jumped 4.6 percent.   

Exporters and other U.S.-exposed firms were in favour as worries eased about the health of the U.S. economy, Asia's top export destination.   

Canon Inc, a Japanese digital camera maker which generates three quarters of its sales overseas, rose 3.5 percent and Hyundai Motor gained 4.6 percent. Shopping centre operator Westfield Group, which has interests in malls in the United States, gained 2 percent.   

Expectations for a brighter U.S. economic outlook and strong global demand helped some energy-related stocks.   

The world's top miner, BHP Billiton Ltd jumped 4.6 percent and POSCO Co Ltd, the world's fourth-largest steel maker, soared 7.4 percent.   

Meanwhile, Japan's Cosmo Oil Co rose 6.3 percent after news that an investment arm of the Abu Dhabi government will spend about $776 million to buy one-fifth of Cosmo Oil, becoming the top shareholder in Japan's fourth-largest oil company.   

DOLLAR, YEN WEAK   

Investors shunned the dollar after the aggressive U.S. rate cut, as lower rates make dollar-denominated fixed-income assets less attractive.   

The dollar's trade-weighted index slipped to 79.115 in late Asian trade, its lowest since 1992, while the euro was slightly weaker at $1.3980 after striking a life high of $1.3989 on electronic trading platform EBS the previous day.   

The dollar bought 115.85 yen after climbing to a 2-week high near 116.40 yen overnight and the euro fetched nearly 162 yen after touching one-month highs of about 162.50 yen on Tuesday.   

Currency strategists at RBC Capital Markets said in a note that the bigger-than-expected U.S. rate cut sparked a strong relief rally across global credit and risk markets.   

Sharada Selvanathan, a currency strategist at BNP Paribas, said markets have taken consolation from the Fed's aggressive action just as they did in early 2001 when it slashed rates to counter the fallout from the bursting high-tech bubble.   

"We are likely to see a rebound in high-yield currencies in the near term. It would require another bout of bad data and/or bad news from the financial side to see the market move back into risk aversion mode," she said.   

Bonds, which have drawn investors seeking safe investments, fell out of favour with the 10-year JGB yield jumping to 1.590 percent. It struck a 19-month low of 1.500 percent last week.   
   RFMARKETS-GLOBAL (WRAPUP 3)|LANGEN|GNN|DNP   NSm132 : Foreign Exchange News | e1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | jap : Japan | hkong : Hong Kong | namz : North America | asiaz : Asia | china : China | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020070919e39j000a9  



 HDCanadian dollar approaches parity with U.S. dollar after  Federal Reserve  cuts interest rates      WC378 words   PD19 September 2007   ET01:29   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPTORONTO (AP) - The Canadian dollar hit a 30-year high Tuesday, rising almost 1 1/2 cents, after the U.S. Federal Reserve Board cut its key interest rate by half a percentage point.   

Known as the loonie because of the bird pictured on the one-dollar coin, the Canadian dollar rose as high as 98.74 US cents in afternoon trading on financial markets in Toronto before ending the trading day at 98.64 US cents.   
   TDIn New York trading, the U.S. dollar fell against the Canadian dollar to $1.0162 from $1.0279 Monday,   

The loonie's swift approach to parity with the U.S. dollar left many analysts speculating that Canada's currency could surpass its American counterpart within a matter of days.   

The loonie had begun to rise more moderately early Monday on speculation that the Fed would cut rates by a quarter point. But it really took flight in the afternoon after the U.S. central bank announced the rates would go down by a half point, double the anticipated cut.   

The  Bank of Canada, meanwhile, has kept its equivalent rates stable.   

As a result, the spread between U.S. and Canadian rates has widened, making Canada a more attractive place for German, Japanese, American and other foreign investors to put their money.   

The soaring loonie also reflects the strong fundamentals of the Canadian economy, which has benefited from record world crude oil prices and strong demand for metals, coal, chemicals, grain and other farm products.   

At the same time, the United States has been squeezed by a collapse of a big chunk of its housing market and a worsening credit crunch.   

Canada's dollar hit an all-time low of 61.79 US cents on Jan. 21, 2002.   

The high dollar will increase the number of cross-border shopping trips as Canadian consumers come to the U.S. to buy clothes, shoes and electronic gear.   

But it will hurt Canadian manufacturers who sell goods in the U.S. Canadian Auto Workers economist Jim Stanford warned that the sector, largely based in Ontario, will lose hundreds of thousands more jobs if the dollar remains at current levels.   
   RF7   NSm13 : Money/Forex Markets | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | e1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REcana : Canada | caon : Ontario | namz : North America | usa : United States   IPCtagpf1wcat | sel----- | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | NA FIN Canada Dollar Fed Rates | D8RO5VEO0   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020070918e39i003k6  



 HDEnergy, precious metals rally after  Federal Reserve  lowers fed funds rate by 50 basis points      BYBy LAUREN VILLAGRAN      CRAP Business Writer   WC907 words   PD18 September 2007   ET23:02   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPNEW YORK (AP) - Oil prices jumped to an all-time high and precious metals rallied Tuesday after the Federal Reserve cut its benchmark interest rate by a half percentage point.   

The central bank trimmed the federal funds rate to 4.75 percent from 5.25 percent on Tuesday, effectively lowering borrowing costs for investors. Lower interest rates can rouse sluggish economic activity and raise demand for raw materials; oil, gold and copper prices climbed in the wake of the decision.   
   TDThe U.S. dollar, undermined by the rate cut, sank to a record low against the euro, adding to the appeal of commodities to foreign buyers.   

Light, sweet crude for October delivery rose 94 cents to settle at $81.51 on the New York Mercantile Exchange, after popping to a peak $81.90 a barrel after the Fed's midafternoon decision. Crude has set record highs for five straight sessions.   

Tim Evans, energy analyst with  Citigroup Global Markets, called the Fed's rate cut "good news and bad news."   

"The good news is that it might pump a little extra demand into the economy generally and into the oil market in particular," Evans said. "The bad news is that the Fed sees the economy as being so fragile at the moment that it needs this. In a sense, it confirms the weak demand picture that we already have evidence of in the crude oil market."   

Oil prices also rose ahead of Wednesday's report on petroleum inventories, which analysts expect to show the 10th weekly decline in crude stockpiles in 11 weeks. Analysts polled by Dow Jones Newswires expect U.S. oil inventories to fall by 1.5 million barrels and project a 1.3-million barrel decline in gasoline supplies. Although stockpiles have declined, Evans pointed out that average market demand over the past four weeks is roughly flat with year-ago levels.   

Gasoline futures rose 1.61 cents to settle at $2.0603 a gallon.   

Meanwhile, gold and silver prices jumped following the Fed decision as investors flocked to precious metals -- a traditional hedge against inflation; lower rates do raise fears that the economy might grow too fast and carry prices of goods and services higher. In aftermarket electronic trading, gold jumped $10.40 to $734.20 an ounce, while silver gained 26 cents to $13.16 an ounce.   

The U.S. dollar has been in a long-term downward spiral against major world currencies, and Tuesday's Fed decision increased the pressure.   

December gold settled down 10 cents at $723.70 an ounce on the Nymex before the Fed's announcement. December silver added 2.5 cents to close at $12.925 an ounce.   

Investors had been hankering for a rate cut ever since rising defaults on subprime mortgages led to tighter credit conditions and stirred more volatility in the stock market. Commodities suffered a broad liquidation in August as investors cashed out to cover losses elsewhere, but most markets have since recovered to tally new highs.   

The carry-over of problems in the credit market has clearly caused real concern, said Brian O'Hearne,  Swiss Re managing director of environmental and commodity markets. "The Fed sent a strong message about the collateral effects" of credit market turmoil on the broader economy.   

Copper prices got a boost from the Fed's move, with the December contract rising to $3.5045 a pound in after-hours trading on the Nymex after finishing regular trading at $3.448 a pound, up 2.8 cents.   

Industrial metals finished higher on the London Metal Exchange, which was closed by the time the Fed made its decision to cut interest rates. Nickel prices gained 6 percent, while zinc added 2 percent. Copper closed 1 percent higher in London.   

Also supporting copper was news that union workers at  Southern Copper Corp. mining operations in Peru will convene Wednesday and Thursday to vote on a possible strike after talks with the company broke down on Monday, Dow Jones Newswires reported.   

Open auction trading at the Chicago Board of Trade had also ended by the time the Fed released its decision. Trading in agriculture futures has in any case been dominated by supply concerns, particularly in the wheat market.   

Wheat prices rose briefly at the open on concerns about the size of Australia's crop, before giving back recent gains. Australia on Tuesday slashed its harvest estimate by nearly a third due to dry weather. The Australian Bureau of Agricultural and Resource Economics pegged production at 15.5 million metric tons, down by 7 million metric tons, or 31 percent, from its previous forecast. Analysts had expected production to range from 18 million to 20 million metric tons.   

Australia's wheat crop suffered a debilitating drought last year, and the dryness has lingered. The wheat market has been especially sensitive to the health of crops in the Southern Hemisphere after crops in the U.S., Europe and elsewhere were damaged by bad weather. U.S. wheat stocks are projected to shrink to a 33-year low as countries short on wheat shop the U.S. market.   

December wheat slipped 6 cents to close at $8.69 a bushel. December corn ended flat at $3.5225 a bushel, while November soybeans added a penny to finish at $9.695 a bushel.   
   RF5   NSm14 : Commodity Markets | m15 : Derivative Securities | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mcroil : Crude Oil Markets | e1202 : Interest Rates | mpcsmt : Precious Metals Markets | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m142 : Metals Markets | m143 : Energy Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagapf | selapfin | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | APFN Commodities Review | D8RO3QGO1   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020070918e39i002hq  



 HDShares of mortgage lenders mixed on  Federal Reserve interest rate  cut      WC188 words   PD18 September 2007   ET20:33   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPNEW YORK (AP) - Shares of mortgage lenders were mixed in afternoon trading Tuesday after the Federal Reserve cut its target for interest rates, fueling some hope that buyers will return to distressed mortgage markets.   

The Fed cut the federal funds rate target to 4.75 percent from 5.25 percent.   
   TDBanks and investors began souring on buying risky home loans this year because of mounting payment defaults and sinking home values. Many investors have clamored for a rate cut, believing it would act as a salve for mortgage lenders unable to sell their loans.   

However, Friedman Billings Ramsey analyst Paul J. Miller Jr. wrote in a research report last week cutting interest rates would offer only temporary relief to mortgage lenders.   

Shares of Countrywide Financial Corp. rose 15 cents to $19.42.   

Shares of IndyMac Bancorp rose 42 cents to $22.95.   

Shares of Accredited Home Lenders Holding Co. fell 28 cents to $10.   

Shares of NovaStar Financial Inc. fell 59 cents to $7.65.   

Shares of Thornburg Mortgage Inc. rose 28 cents to $13.48.   
   RF7   INi8150103 : Mortgages/Real Estate Credit | i81501 : Credit Types/Services | ibnk : Banking/Credit | i81501 : Credit Types/Services   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | c1522 : Share Price Movement/Disruptions | c15 : Performance | c152 : Earnings Projections | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagapf | selapfin | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | APFN Sector Glance Mortgage Lenders | D8RO1KLO1   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020070918e39i002x2  



 HDAirline stocks mostly rise after  Federal Reserve  cuts key  interest rate    WC269 words   PD18 September 2007   ET20:52   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPNEW YORK (AP) - Airline shares mostly rose Tuesday after the Federal Reserve cut the benchmark federal funds rate by half a percentage point.   

Most airline stocks had been trading lower ahead of the central bank's move. Before the market opened,  JPMorgan analyst Jamie Baker wrote in a note to clients that traditional airlines are better positioned to withstand a downturn than in the past and should stay profitable in the event of a recession.   
   TD"If accurate, this would be a first for the post-deregulation industry," he wrote.   

The analyst also reinstated coverage of  Delta Air Lines Inc. and  Northwest Airlines Corp. with an "Overweight" rating.   

The broader market also rose after the Fed decision. Within minutes, the Dow Jones industrial average rallied almost 200 points to cross the 13,600 level. The Dow was higher ahead of the rate cut as investors welcomed better-than-expected earnings and economic data.   

Delta shares rose 17 cents to $17.32. Northwest gained 17 cents to $17.37.   

Here's a look at how other airline stocks performed after the Fed's move Tuesday.   

American Airlines parent  AMR Corp., rose 45 cents to $24.09.   

Continental Airlines Inc., added $1.30, or 4.1 percent, to $33.43.   

UAL Corp., the parent of  United Airlines, up 17 cents to $45.06.   

US Airways Group Inc. gained 26 cents to $29.42.   

Southwest Airlines Co., up 29 cents to $14.90.   

AirTran Holdings Inc., up 19 cents to $10.36.   

JetBlue Airways Corp. up 3 cents to $9.58.   
   RF7   COdeltaa : Delta Air Lines Inc | nwa : Northwest Airlines Corp   INiairtr : Air Transport | itsp : Transportation/Shipping | i75 : Airlines | i7501 : Scheduled Passenger Airlines   NSm11 : Equity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | e1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagapf | selapfin | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | APFN Airlines Sector Glance | D8RO1TI01   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020070918e39i002yu  



 HDShares of national banks rise on heels of  Federal Reserve  rate cuts      WC243 words   PD18 September 2007   ET20:54   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPNEW YORK (AP) - Shares of national banks rose after the Federal Reserve cut a key interest rate to 4.75 percent from 5.25 percent Tuesday afternoon.   

Banks were among the hardest hit companies during recent months of stock market volatility, as deterioration in the housing market and narrow margins between how much it costs bank to borrow money and how much they receive lending money to customers hurt profits. Lower rates should improve banks' interest margins, providing an improved profit stream.   
   TDThe federal funds rate, the rate banks charge each other, is often used to calculate interest rates on typical consumer and business loans. The cut will likely be quickly reflected in banks' prime lending rate, making borrowing more attractive for individuals and businesses. The prime rate was at 8.25 percent.   

Here's how stocks in the nation's largest banks were trading following the Fed decision:   

Bank of America Inc. rose $1.27, or 2.6 percent, to $50.78.   

Wells Fargo & Co. shares added $1.09, or 3.1 percent to $36.75.   

Washington Mutual Inc. gained $1.10, or 3.1 percent, to $37.06.   

Citigroup Inc. shares rose $1.74, or 3.8 percent, to $47.77.   

JPMorgan Chase & Co. added $1.91, or 4.2 percent, to $47.20.   

Wachovia Corp. rose $1.29, or 2.6 percent, to $51.06.   
   RF7   COnwbc : Wells Fargo & Company   INibnk : Banking/Credit | i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagapf | selapfin | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | APFN Sector Glance National Banks | D8RO1UM01   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020070918e39i002z2  



 HDHousing stocks decrease ahead of  Federal Reserve interest rate  meeting      WC275 words   PD17 September 2007   ET18:59   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPNEW YORK (AP) - Shares of most homebuilders edged lower Monday ahead of the Federal Reserve's decision on interest rates Tuesday.   

Due to market turmoil from defaulting mortgages and a lack of credit, economists and investors are calling for a quarter-point cut in the benchmark federal funds rate Tuesday. Some are even forecasting a half-point rate reduction following recent tepid economic reports.   
   TDA rate cut could loosen up the availability of credit and make it easier for potential homebuyers to qualify for home loans.   

However, Banc of America Securities analyst Daniel Oppenheim believes such a move by the Fed won't help buoy homebuilder stocks in the long term and remains cautious given weak fundamentals like soft demand, lack of mortgage availability and declining home prices.   

But Oppenheim also sees hope for the sector: "On the positive side, we see a 44 percent decline in new construction activity and the potential for lower rates, which would help affordability."   

One notable exception to the sector-wide downdraft was  Hovnanian Enterprises Inc., which said Monday its weekend marketing push resulted in 2,100 gross sales, including more than 1,700 contracts and more than 400 sales deposits.   

Among the homebuilder shares registering significant movement Monday in afternoon trading:   

--  Ryland Group Inc. lost 40 cents to $24.60.   

--  Pulte Homes Inc. declined 21 cents to $15.83.   

--  Standard Pacific Corp. fell 18 cents to $7.85.   

--  Meritage Homes Corp. decreased 17 cents to $17.23.   

--  WCI Communities Inc. slipped 16 cents to $6.98.   

-- Hovnanian gained 39 cents, or 3.3 percent, to $11.36.   
   RF7   NSm11 : Equity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | e1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagapf | selapfin | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | APFN Housing Snap | D8RNB5PO1   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020070917e39h001y8  



 HDFed cuts key  interest rate  in effort to fend off recession      BYBy MARTIN CRUTSINGER      CRAP Economics Writer   WC874 words   PD18 September 2007   ET21:49   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPWASHINGTON (AP) - The Federal Reserve cut a key interest rate for the first time in four years, starting with an aggressive half-point move to prevent a steep housing slump and turbulent financial markets from triggering a recession. The action provoked a huge rally on Wall Street.   

The Fed announced Tuesday that it was reducing its target for the federal funds rate, the interest that banks charge each other, from 5.25 percent to 4.75 percent.   
   TDThe half-point reduction was double the quarter-point move that many had expected and sparked euphoria among investors, who had been worried that the central bank would be too slow in responding to recent market turmoil.   

The Dow Jones industrial average, which was up by 84 points right before the Fed decision, soared by more than 300 points following the mid-afternoon announcement.   

The Fed's action is designed to boost economic growth by lowering borrowing costs for millions of consumers and businesses. Commercial banks followed quickly with announcements that they were slashing their prime lending rate by a half-point to 7.75 percent. It had been at 8.25 percent for the past 15 months.   

Economists predicted more rate cuts to come until the Fed is satisfied that it has done enough to keep the economy out of a recession.   

"I think this shows they are really getting concerned about the meltdown in financial markets," said David Wyss, chief economist at Standard & Poors in New York.   

The Fed's action came in the midst of the worst slump in housing in 16 years. That downturn has triggered record defaults in subprime mortgages and roiled financial markets around the globe as investors have become worried about where the spreading credit problems will next appear.   

The financial market turmoil represents the first major test for Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke, who took over from the venerable Alan Greenspan in February 2006.   

In addition to cutting the federal funds rate by a half point, the central bank also reduced its discount rate, the interest it charges in making direct loans to banks, by a half-point as well.   

The Fed had also cut the discount rate on Aug. 17 as it scrambled to respond to the growing credit crisis.   

In explaining its action Tuesday, the Fed said that "the tightening of credit conditions has the potential to intensify the housing correction and to restrain economic growth more generally."   

Many analysts had predicted that Bernanke, who has been cautious since taking over as Fed chairman, would opt for a quarter-point move, the change in rates usually preferred by Greenspan.   

But with this action, Bernanke appeared to be trying to surprise financial markets with a positive change after disappointing investors following the Aug. 7 meeting when he and fellow board members refused to change rates and still said inflation was the biggest threat facing the economy.   

"Today's action is intended to help forestall some of the adverse effects on the broader economy that might otherwise arise from the disruptions in financial markets and to promote moderate growth over time," the Fed said in a brief statement explaining its actions.   

Analysts said rate cuts were certainly needed, given spreading weakness in housing, financial market turbulence and a bad August employment report which showed the labor market lost jobs for the first time in four years.   

"We have a very soft economy and if the Fed doesn't lower rates then the economy could fall into a recession," said Mark Zandi, chief economist at Economy.com.   

Zandi said he had trimmed his forecast to show economic growth of around 2.5 percent in the current quarter, down sharply from 4 percent growth rate in the April-June quarter. He said the fourth quarter is likely to be even weaker -- at around 1.5 percent.   

Analysts believe the Fed has room to cut rates because inflation pressures have been easing. In good news on that front, the Labor Department reported Tuesday that wholesale prices fell by 1.4 percent in August. It was the biggest drop in 10 months and much larger than the 0.3 percent fall that had been expected.   

Economists said they believed that Bernanke, who wrote extensively as an economics professor on the Great Depression that followed the 1929 stock market crash, understands what needs to be done to avert downturns.   

While some have complained that Bernanke has been more tentative than Greenspan would have been, no less an authority than Greenspan disagrees.   

Doing a round of interviews to promote his new book, Greenspan, who was Fed chairman for 18 1/2 years, said Bernanke was "doing an excellent job" and he doubted that he would have done anything differently.   

Greenspan told The Associated Press on Monday that the odds of a recession have grown since earlier this year, even though "the economy is not doing badly at this stage."   

He put the odds of a recession at greater than one in three. "But best I can judge it is less than 50 percent," he said.   

Greenspan's one-in-three prediction earlier this year rocked Wall Street.   
   RF7   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | e1101 : Economic Growth | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPCtagpf1wcat | sel----- | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | NA FIN ECO US Interest Rates | D8RO2OK80   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020070918e39i00109  



 HDCommodities rally on prospects for stronger economic growth should Fed cut rates      BYBy LAUREN VILLAGRAN      CRAP Business Writer   WC684 words   PD17 September 2007   ET21:49   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPNEW YORK (AP) - Commodities climbed broadly Monday, led by gains in agriculture, energy and precious metals as investors bet that an anticipated interest rate cut will stimulate economic growth and raise demand for raw materials.   

Investors largely expect the Federal Reserve to lower its benchmark federal funds rate Tuesday, a move that would feasibly improve prospects for economic expansion and the demand for energy, metals and agriculture products that sustain growth. While trading on Wall Street remained cautious with stocks falling investors sent gold, oil and wheat prices sharply higher.   
   TDOil prices hit an all-time high for the fourth consecutive session. Wheat prices advanced the daily maximum permitted by the Chicago Board of Trade. Gold traded at its highest level since May 2006.   

Gold prices advanced as stocks stumbled and the U.S. dollar fluctuated against other world currencies. Stock investors, skittish ahead of the Fed meeting, sent equities lower. The consensus is for a quarter-point cut in the federal funds target rate after more than a year at 5.25 percent, although some forecast a bigger half-point cut. Still, no move is assured and nervous investors turned to precious metals.   

December gold rose $6 to settle at $723.80 an ounce on the New York Mercantile Exchange, after jumping as high as $728.90 in earlier trading.   

Although the U.S. dollar rebounded slightly Monday, the greenback's general trend in world currency markets has been a declining one. That has increased investor interest in gold, which is seen as a hedge against inflation.   

"The dollar has weakened on expectations the Fed will have to cut interest rates," said Sean Simko, senior portfolio manager of SEI Fixed Income Management. "That would continue to put downward pressure on the dollar, which will support commodities markets such as precious metals."   

Silver for December delivery added 19.5 cents to settled at $12.90 an ounce, while October platinum gained $3.40 to $1,302.60 an ounce.   

Industrial metals were mixed on the London Metal Exchange, with nickel prices pulling ahead while zinc prices fell sharply. Copper slipped in London, while rising in New York. Nymex copper for December delivery rose 2.75 cents to close at $3.42 a bushel.   

Meanwhile, oil prices surged to a high of $80.70 a barrel, then slipped back to close at a record $80.57, as traders bet that the expected interest rate cut will spur economic activity and boost demand for energy. Higher oil prices are "a sign of confidence the economy will stabilize and a sign of confidence the Fed will lower interest rates" to engender growth, said Phil Flynn of Alaron Trading Corp. in Chicago.   

Flynn added that energy trading also reflected Monday's expiration of options contracts, which can raise volatility in either direction.   

In Chicago, agriculture futures rallied as wheat began the week on a higher note, extending eight straight weekly gains.   

Concerns about a troubled Australian wheat crop underpinned prices. Analysts expect Australia's harvest to range from 18 million to 20 million tons, compared with more typical production of 26 million to 28 million tons, said DTN analyst Gary Wilhelmi; the Australian government releases its estimates on Tuesday. In a wheat market that is so sensitive, the report will shape the trade, Wilhelmi said.   

Supplies of wheat worldwide have grown exceedingly tight, as poor weather damaged crops in major producing region this year. December wheat jumped 29 cents to settle at $8.75 a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade, after earlier rising 30 cents, the daily limit allowed. The contract is still off its record high of $9.07 a bushel on Wednesday.   

Soybean traders also looked to developments in the Southern Hemisphere, where concerns about seed germination in the Brazilian crop have arisen. November soybeans climbed 13.75 cents to close at $9.685 a bushel. Corn prices rose in sympathy, as the December contract edged up 3.25 cents to $3.5225 a bushel.   
   RF5   NSm14 : Commodity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | e1101 : Economic Growth | mcroil : Crude Oil Markets | e1202 : Interest Rates | mpcsmt : Precious Metals Markets | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m142 : Metals Markets | m143 : Energy Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagapf | selapfin | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | APFN Commodities Review | D8RNDLCG3   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020070917e39h001v8  



 HDAs banks lower their prime rate, credit card holders should expect a small drop in rates      BYBy MADLEN READ      CRAP Business Writer   WC425 words   PD19 September 2007   ET22:03   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPNEW YORK (AP) - Credit card debt will soon get a bit easier to handle -- a very little bit -- now that the Federal Reserve has lowered the benchmark interest rate by a half-percentage-point.   

It's not going to save the average card holder much money -- certainly not enough to get your kid an iPod this holiday season. But the rate difference might buy you 30 or so songs to upload onto it.   
   TDIn response to the Fed rate cut, commercial banks have been lowering their prime rate, which affects the approximately 85 percent of U.S. credit cards with variable rates, according to CardWeb.com Inc., an online publisher of payment card information. The prime rate, or what banks charge their best borrowers, has dropped to 7.75 percent from 8.25 percent, a level it's held at for 15 months until this week.   

Right now, the standard fixed rate for credit cards is 13.48 percent and the standard-variable rate is 14.57 percent, according to personal finance Web site Bankrate.com.   

The effect of the rate cut should trickle down to card holders starting in October or November, and if the lower rate holds over the next 12 months, that should translate to $30 per year in savings for people with the median card debt of $7,000, CardWeb said. That adds up to a total of $4 billion in interest rate savings for Americans with variable rate-based credit cards.   

The prime rate is still well above where it was a few years ago. It dipped as low as 4 percent between mid-2003 and mid-2004 as the Fed loosened up monetary policy to keep the U.S. economy from falling into a deep recession.   

The prime rate is typically 3 percentage points higher than the target fed funds rate. When the Fed lowers its target fed funds rate, or the rate that banks charge each other for overnight loans, commercial lenders soon follow up by lowering their rates to customers by a corresponding amount.   

The five Visa and  MasterCard issuers with the largest card portfolios are  Bank of America Corp.,  JPMorgan Chase & Co.,  Citigroup Inc.,  Capital One Financial Corp. and  HSBC Holdings PLC, according to Nilson Report data. As of Wednesday afternoon,  Bank of America, Citi and  HSBC had publicly announced half-point prime rate cuts, and Chase and  Capital One had not.   
   RF7   INi81501 : Credit Types/Services | i8150108 : Credit Cards | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe1106 : Consumer Credit/Expenditure/Savings | e1202 : Interest Rates | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagdstab | sel9---- | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | Credit Card Rates | D8ROO1V00   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020070919e39j002n9  



 HDU.S. stocks set to extend gains after Fed rate cut      BYBy Blaise Robinson      WC546 words   PD19 September 2007   ET11:55   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007 Reuters Limited   
   LP PARIS, Sept 19 (Reuters) - U.S. stock futures pointed to a higher opening on Wall Street on Wednesday, as shares continue to rally following the Federal Reserve's aggressive interest rate cut that eased fears over the outlook for the economy.   
   TD At 0938 GMT December Standard & Poor's 500 futures <SPZ7> were up 0.23 percent, Dow Jones futures <DJZ7> were up 0.21 percent, and Nasdaq 100 futures <NDZ7> were up 0.06 percent.   

 Stocks surged the most in four years on Tuesday after the Fed slashed its benchmark short-term rate by half a percentage point. The federal funds rate now stands at 4.75 percent, its lowest level since May 2006.   

 The Dow Jones industrial average <.DJI> shot up 335.97 points, or 2.51 percent, to end at 13,739.39. The Standard & Poor's 500 Index <.SPX> surged 43.13 points, or 2.92 percent, to finish at 1,519.78. The Nasdaq Composite Index <.IXIC> climbed 70.00 points, or 2.71 percent, to close at 2,651.66.   

 The Fed's decision, aimed at shielding the economy from a credit crunch as well as a slump in the housing sector, came about a month after it cut its discount rate in an emergency move to encourage banks to borrow directly from the central bank.   

 "The Fed did what they were supposed to do and it wasn't a surprise after the payroll (jobs) numbers," said Franz Wenzel, strategist at AXA Investment Managers, in Paris.   

 "They'll be looking very closely at the macro and micro data including earnings statements from the banks and we wouldn't rule out two more cuts by the end of the year. We'd like to see what happened as result of the subprime crisis in the Q3 reporting season."   

 Investors were also relieved by  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc's  quarterly results. The bank reported unexpectedly strong earnings in the three months ended Aug. 31 that helped allay worries about the impact of credit market contraction on the financial sector. Its shares jumped 10 percent to $64.49 on Tuesday.   

 The closely-watched U.S. brokerage earning season will continue on Wednesday, with quarterly results expected from  Morgan Stanley , while  Bear Stearns  and  Goldman Sachs  are due to report on Thursday.   

 U.S. consumer prices and housing starts data for August will also be in focus on Wednesday.   

 Consumer prices are expected to have remained flat in August, held down by lower gasoline prices. But prices excluding food and energy probably rose at the same rate as in July, economists polled by Reuters said.   

 According to a Reuters poll of economists, housing starts probably fell to their lowest level in more than 12 years in August as tight credit exacerbated already weak market conditions.   

 In individual stocks, shares in  TD Ameritrade Holding Corp  rose 3.3 percent after the closing bell on Tuesday as it said its earnings could top the high end of its forecast.  (Additional reporting by Sitaraman Shankar in London)      
   RFMARKETS-STOCKS-US-EUROPE|LANGEN|UKI|ABN|E|RBN|U|D|NAT|M|G|C|GRO|MTL|SOF|O|OIL|RNP|DNP   NSgcat : Political/General News | ntop : Dow Jones/Reuters Top Wire News | e1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types   REeurz : Europe | uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | weurz : Western Europe | eecz : European Union Countries | namz : North America   IPCSTX | NEWS | FIN | MUNI | DBT | ENR | .N | .L/US   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020070919e39j0023y  



 HDRPTTREASURIES-Long end caves, rate cut rekindles inflation dread      BYBy Pedro Nicolaci da Costa      WC365 words   PD19 September 2007   ET14:17   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007 Reuters Limited   
   LP(Repeats to additional subscribers with no changes to text)   

NEW YORK, Sept 19 (Reuters) - Long-dated U.S. Treasury bond prices slid on Wednesday as investors bet interest rate cuts from the Federal Reserve will stoke inflation despite signs that price increases actually moderated last month.   
   TDThe Fed slashed the benchmark federal funds rate by a half percentage point on Tuesday, a bigger reduction than many had expected.   

The cut was welcomed by those who fear the economy may be descending into a serious downturn, but inflation hawks worried the central bank might let its guard down against price increases. Surging oil and gold prices added to those concerns.   

Gains in the stock markets also lured investors away from government bonds.   

The 30-year bond <US30YT=RR> was down nearly 1-1/2 points in price as its yield rose to 4.84 percent, up 14 basis points in just two days. Bond yields move inversely to prices.   

As losses weighed disproportionately on longer maturities, the yield curve steepened.   

"The reshaping of the curve is positioning for potential higher inflation," said Brian Robinson, bond strategist at 4Cast Ltd.   

Data published on Wednesday showed consumer prices excluding food and energy rose 0.2 percent in August, matching forecasts. This left the year-on-year reading at 2.1 percent, down slightly from July but still above the cental bank's comfort range of 1-2 percent.   

Against the backdrop of raging commodity costs, bond traders seemed to be gambling on an erosion in value for longer-term securities, pushing 10-year notes <US10YT=RR> up 19/32 in price.   

The maturity's yield jumped 7 basis points to 4.54 percent, the biggest one-day spike since credit conditions began deteriorating more severely.   

Housing starts figures showed no relief for the housing sector, which is at the epicenter of both the economy's slippage and the seizing up of credit markets. Groundbreaking on new homes fell 2.6 percent to their lowest level since 1995 For details, see [ID:nN19264607].   
   RFMARKETS-BONDS (UPDATE 5)|LANGEN|DA|FN|NW|SW   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | gcat : Political/General News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m131 : Money Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ntop : Dow Jones/Reuters Top Wire News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCDBT | GVD | MUNI | INT | MCE | STIR | MMT | NEWS | US/ | US/N | XXSNPT | EMBG:DBT | embargokeyE1R1:1   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020070919e39j002d8  



 HDForeigners buy Egypt stocks after Fed rate cut      WC295 words   PD19 September 2007   ET14:51   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007 Reuters Limited   
   LPCAIRO, Sept 19 (Reuters) - Foreign buying pushed Egyptian stock indexes to some record highs on Wednesday after the U.S. Federal Reserve cut interest rates by 50 basis points.   

Foreigners, seeking attractive alternatives to U.S. dollar deposits, were net buyers by 271 million Egyptian pounds ($48 million) in total volume of 1.36 billion pounds, brokers said.   
   TDThe main beneficiaries were big stocks such as investment bank EFG-Hermes and regional mobile company Orascom Telecom, they added.   

The interest rate cut pushed up prices as soon as the market opened but stocks soon plateaued and some later drifted down.   

"It was the cut in the discount rate... It helped all emerging markets. Our market didn't go as high as others, perhaps because it had been going up anyway," said Bassim Arida of CIBC brokerage.   

Mohamed Kotb of Jazira Asset Management said the effect was across the board, with some concentration in big-cap stocks.   

The benchmark CASE 30 index hit an all-time high of 8,648.84 points and ended at a historic high close at 8,608.62, 1.4 percent up on Tuesday. The widely watched Hermes index rose to 76,364.44 points and closed 1.1 percent up at 76,918.68 points, both numbers all-time highs.   

EFG-Hermes, the most widely traded stock by turnover, climbed 5 percent to 45.60 pounds. Sixth of October Development and Investment gained 3.6 percent to 167.98 pounds. Orascom Telecom rose 0.9 percent to 73.02 pounds.   

The broader CIBC index fell 0.8 percent to 384.18 points. ($1 = 5.62 Egyptian pounds)   
   RFMARKETS-EGYPT-CLOSER/|LANGEN|AFA|CSA|LBY|RWSA|RWS|REULB|GNS|BNX   NSm11 : Equity Markets | e1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REegypt : Egypt | usa : United States | africaz : Africa | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | medz : Mediterranean | nafrz : North Africa | namz : North America | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | meastz : Middle East   IPCSTX | INVS | FIN | WLES | TEL | MIS | REOP | CON | BSVC | FINS   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020070919e39j002fy  



 HDFed starts one-day meeting as markets eye rate cut      WC312 words   PD18 September 2007   ET14:36   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007 Reuters Limited   
   LPWASHINGTON, Sept 18 (Reuters) - U.S. Federal Reserve policy-makers started a one-day meeting on Tuesday that was widely expected to end with Chairman Ben Bernanke's first interest rate cut.   

The rate-setting Federal Open Market Committee began its sixth meeting this year at about 8:30 a.m. (1230 GMT), a Fed official said. A statement outlining the committee's decision is due at about 2:15 p.m. (1815 GMT).   
   TDInvestors expect the Fed to cut its target for the overnight interbank federal funds rate by either one-quarter or one-half percentage point from the current 5.25 percent, where it has been since June 2006. It is also expected to trim the discount rate it charges for direct loans to banks.   

Wall Street desperately wants a rate cut to help offset tightening credit conditions and inspire confidence in global financial markets, which have been rocked by troubles in subprime mortgages and commercial paper.   

Signs of economic trouble, including a surprising drop in U.S. jobs in August and soft retail sales data, have provided room for the Fed to shift its focus from stamping out inflation to keeping the economy growing. Many economists, including former Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan, say the risk of recession has increased amid the latest market turmoil and eroding house prices.   

Once the Fed tilts policy in a new direction, a series of rate moves are usually in store, but the size and speed of subsequent shifts in credit costs can vary. Investors will scour the statement the Fed will issue announcing its rate decision for signs of how aggressively the central bank will move in coming months.   
   RFUSA-FED/MEETING|LANGEN|ABN|C|D|E|M|O|U|MTL|GRO|SOF|OIL|G|RBN|ABX|BNX|RNP|PGE   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | e1202 : Interest Rates | gcat : Political/General News | gvexe : Executive Branch | ntop : Dow Jones/Reuters Top Wire News | ecat : Economic News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | ncat : Content Types   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCWASH | MCE | NEWS | FED | CEN | PLCY | STIR | EMBG:PLCY | embargokeyE1R1:1   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020070918e39i0015w  



 HDUS RATE FUTURES-Rally shows confidence more Fed cuts ahead      BYBy Ros Krasny      WC292 words   PD18 September 2007   ET20:23   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007 Reuters Limited   
   LP(Adds details, comments, updates prices)   

CHICAGO, Sept 18 (Reuters) - U.S. short-term interest rate futures surged on Tuesday after the Federal Reserve slashed its overnight lending rate by one-half percentage point and highlighted obstacles to growth.   
   TD"The tightening of credit conditions has the potential to intensify the housing correction and restrain economic growth more generally," the Federal Open Market Committee said in the statement accompanying its rate decision.   

The FOMC cut the fed funds rate to 4.75 percent, a moderate surprise to a market that had been leaning recently towards a cut of only one-quarter point.   

"This is a clear signal that the Fed is willing to provide liquidity and reduce market turbulence," said Kurt Karl, chief market economist at  Swiss Re in New York.   

"Slow growth should lower inflation further, so the Fed should have few concerns about inflation and is expected to continue cutting rates."   

The cut was the first by the Fed since June 2003. The Fed has held its target fed funds rate at 5.25 percent since June 2006, the end-point of a long cycle of tightening.   

The jump in rate futures fully priced another rate cut from the Federal Open Market Committee in October, to 4.50 percent, although gains were quickly pared back to show about a two in three chance of another cut next month.   

"It's clear the Fed wants to avoid recession," said Alan Skrainka, chief market strategist at Edward Jones in St. Louis. "The long-awaited, much anticipated start of an easing cycle has begun."   
   RFMARKETS-RATEFUTURES-FOMC (UPDATE 1)|LANGEN|ABN|E|RBN|D|U|M|MNI|RNP|DNP   NSe1201 : Central Bank Intervention | e1202 : Interest Rates | gcat : Political/General News | m131 : Money Markets | m15 : Derivative Securities | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ntop : Dow Jones/Reuters Top Wire News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCDBT | GVD | INT | MCE | STIR | NEWS | MMT | DRV | FED | CEN   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020070918e39i001ua  



 HDGold near 16-month high, focus on Fed rate meeting      BYBy Lewa Pardomuan      WC838 words   PD17 September 2007   ET07:10   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007 Reuters Limited   
   LPSINGAPORE, Sept 17 (Reuters) - Gold rose on Monday and stayed within sight of a 16-month high of $717 an ounce struck last week with expectations running high for the U.S. Federal Reserve to cut interest rates.   

The Fed is widely expected to trim its benchmark interest rate by at least 25 basis points on Tuesday to help cushion the economy from the impact of the credit squeeze and housing slump. Lower interest rates boost gold's safe-haven appeal. Platinum and palladium rebounded from early lows to track gains in bullion, but some gold jewellers in Asia refrained from buying ahead of the Fed's policy meeting, said dealers.   
   TDSpot gold rose to $710.30/711.10 an ounce from $707.30/708.10 an ounce late in New York on Friday on fund and stop-loss buying as the euro held within striking distance of last week's all-time highs around $1.3927.   

"My gut feeling is when the dust really starts to settle in this subprime issue, gold will be even more attractive as an asset which is not really subject to a credit crunch," said Darren Heathcote of Investec Australia in Sydney.   

"It's holding on to its safe haven status for the time being. Physical buying is still relatively strong," he said.   

Gold, used in jewellery and as an investment tool, has rebounded around 10 percent from a seven-week low reached in mid-August. It hit a low of $641.10, when investors sold gold to raise cash to cover margin calls on losses triggered by a meltdown in the U.S. subprime mortgage market.   

"I guess $720 is definitely the topside. If we want to see the price hitting $800, which is possible, we need to clear the psychological levels of $720 and $730," said a dealer in Singapore.   

Gold hit an all-time high of $850 an ounce, fixed in London on Jan. 21, 1980.   

Some dealers said Friday's rally was also ignited by news Britain's financial authorities stepped in to rescue mortgage lender  Northern Rock as the group fell victim to the sharp rise in borrowing costs between banks. "The market has seen bits and pieces of demand, although buying interest seems to be subsiding at around $710. It looks like jewellers are reluctant to do anything right now," said a dealer in Hong Kong.   

"Gold will probably move in a range of $708 to $712 today. I am a bit bullish but I think there's a big pressure on the upside," he said.   

The euro was steady at $1.3878 on Monday but hovered near last week's all-time highs Measured against a basket of major currencies, the dollar touched a 15-year low of 79.30 last week before bouncing modestly to 79.72.   

Former Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan said in an interview published on Monday the Fed would have to raise interest rates to double-digit levels in coming years to thwart inflation.   

But double-digit rates, which have not been seen since the 1980s, would not be a long-term fixture, Greenspan said in an interview with USA Today conducted on Friday.   

Japanese financial markets were closed on Monday for a public holiday. Benchmark August 2008 gold futures on the Tokyo Commodity Exchange ended unchanged at 2,634 yen per gram on Friday.   

Platinum hit intraday low of $1,262 an ounce, its lowest since Aug. 31 in the absence of Japanese players. It later rebounded to $1,299/1,304 an ounce, higher than $1,297/1,302 late in New York.   

Japan's  Daihatsu Motor Co. Ltd. said on Friday it had developed a technology to make fuel cells without platinum, the precious metal used in the electrolyte process in existing hydrogen-based fuel cells.   

Palladium fell to $329/333 an ounce from $330/334 late in New York. It fell as low as $326 on Monday, its lowest level in nearly three weeks.   

Silver inched up to $12.59/12.62 an ounce from $12.52/12.57 an ounce.   

Precious metals prices at 0500 GMT Metal Last Change Pct chg YTD pct chg Turnover    


 Spot Gold         710.50    3.80   +0.54     11.77
 Spot Silver        12.59    0.14   +1.12     -2.02
 Spot Platinum    1299.00    8.00   +0.62     14.75
 Spot Palladium    329.00   -1.00   -0.30     -0.90
 TOCOM Gold       2634.00    0.00   +0.00      7.73       
63871
 TOCOM Platinum   4747.00  -14.00   -0.29     11.59       
23092
 TOCOM Silver      464.30   -0.40   -0.09     -5.88        
1042
 TOCOM Palladium  1243.00   -1.00   -0.08     -0.96         
224
 Euro/Dollar       1.3877
 Dollar/Yen        115.13
   

TOCOM prices in yen per gram, except TOCOM silver which is priced in yen per 10 grams. Spot prices in $ per ounce.   
   RFMARKETS-PRECIOUS|LANGEN|Table|ABX|BNX|FUN   INi224 : Non-ferrous Metals | imet : Metals/Mining | i22 : Primary Metals   NSgcat : Political/General News | m1421 : Gold Markets | m15 : Derivative Securities | ntab : Table | ntop : Dow Jones/Reuters Top Wire News | e1202 : Interest Rates | mpcsmt : Precious Metals Markets | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m14 : Commodity Markets | m142 : Metals Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | niwe : IWE Filter   REasiaz : Asia | austr : Australia | china : China | hkong : Hong Kong | india : India | jap : Japan | safr : South Africa | singp : Singapore | usa : United States | africaz : Africa | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | indsubz : Indian Subcontinent | namz : North America | sasiaz : Southern Asia | seasiaz : Southeast Asia | souafrz : Southern Africa   IPCMET | GOL | DRV | GDM | NEWS | GOL/ | GOL/T   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020070917e39h000as  



 HDUS TREASURY OUTLOOK-Ready for smaller Fed cut, bonds eye stocks      BYBy Burton Frierson      WC550 words   PD17 September 2007   ET21:49   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007 Reuters Limited   
   LPNEW YORK, Sept 17 (Reuters) - Bond investors are well positioned for a quarter-point interest rate cut from the Fed on Tuesday but could get a boost if the U.S. central bank disappoints stock market hopes for more easing in the future.   

Equities and bonds have been locked in a tug-of-war in recent weeks, with investors piling into safe-haven Treasuries whenever new signs emerged that turmoil from credit markets was spreading.   
   TDConcerns that credit conditions were tightening just as the job market was weakening had spurred speculation the Federal Reserve might deliver an aggressive 50 basis point cut. Now, many investors have backed off such bets.   

This should leave bonds on solid ground if the Fed announces a 25-basis-point cut, but might not be enough to reassure other markets without a strong signal that it will act to shore up economic growth.   

"The Treasury market has already been discounting a 25-basis-point cut over the past few days, as opposed to 50. I think they realize that the Fed is more likely to do 25 than 50," said David Coard, head of fixed income sales and trading at Williams Capital Group in New York.   

"I think the equity market may still have hopes for a 50, so they may sell off a little bit. That would be beneficial to bonds, the longer end anyway, if there is a sell-off."   

A cut in the overnight federal funds rate would be the first move of any kind since the Fed ended a two-year campaign of hikes in June last year and the first easing since June 2003.   

The last 50-basis-point cut in the fed funds rate came in November 2002.   

Yields on two-year Treasuries <US2YT=RR>, the most sensitive to changing expectations of Fed moves, rose over the last week as investors pared back bets on aggressive monetary easing at Tuesday's meeting.   

Still, yields are down more than 50 basis points since early last month, when credit markets seized up amid widening fallout from a mess in the U.S. mortgage market.   

Despite the recent sell-off, two-year notes still factor in more than 100 basis points worth of rate cuts, with yields at 4.08 percent on Monday.   

This reflects concerns that a housing slump, sclerotic money markets and record oil prices above $80 a barrel will make it difficult for consumers to save the economy with the flip of a credit card.   

It also places the spotlight on the Fed's policy statement, due around 2:15 p.m. on Tuesday, to convince growth-dependent equities investors that they are not better off moving into the super-safe government bond market.   

"Disappointed investors tend to sell things like equities, so I think the primary conduit for bonds is really going to be the stock market reaction," said Chris Rupkey, senior financial economist at  Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi in New York.   

"If the Fed doesn't give some sort of hint that they are getting ready to cut rates aggressively, the stock market could head south in a hurry."   
   RFMARKETS-BONDS-OUTLOOK|LANGEN|ABN|M|D|E|RBN|U|MNI   NSe1122 : Mortgage Applications/Refinancing | e1202 : Interest Rates | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m131 : Money Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCMMT | DBT | GVD | AGN | MTG | STIR | MCE | MUNI | US/O | EMBG:DBT | embargokeyE1   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020070920e39h00264  



 HDTREASURIES-Inch up in Asia before Fed rate decision      WC543 words   PD18 September 2007   ET06:40   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007 Reuters Limited   
   LPTOKYO, Sept 18 (Reuters) - U.S. Treasuries inched up in Asia on Tuesday ahead of a Federal Reserve policy meeting later in the day, when the U.S. central bank is widely expected to cut its main interest rate for the first time in four years.   

Volume was extremely thin as market participants sat tight ahead of the rate decision. Speculation for a chop in rates at this month's meeting is running high given a global credit crunch and growing signs of weakness in the U.S. economy.   
   TDMany investors are anticipating a 25 basis point cut in the fed funds rate from 5.25 percent, but dealers said there remained roughly a 50-50 chance of a 50 basis point decrease.   

"There's going to be a surprise either way," said Adam Mackillop, head of U.S. rates trading in Asia at  Barclays Capital, referring to how much the Fed may move.   

"There will be a move (in Treasuries) tonight."   

In addition to the benchmark rate, analysts see another reduction in the discount rate, the rate charged to banks for loans, in a bid to revitalise lethargic financial markets by prompting banks to borrow directly from the Fed.   

The central bank cut the discount rate by a half-percentage point to 5.75 percent last month.   

Ten-year note futures <TYv1> inched up 3.5/32 to 109-28/32, staying within range of 110-31/32 touched earlier in the month, its highest in roughly two years.   

The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury <US10YT=RR> slipped to 4.456 percent from 4.463 percent in New York on Monday.   

Dealers said a 50 basis point rate cut may push the 10-year yield as low as 4.35 percent later on Tuesday, nearer the 4.303 percent hit in early September, its lowest since early 2006.   

The two-year yield <US2YT=RR> was little changed at 4.071 percent.   

Treasuries were also well-supported after a fall in U.S. stocks on Monday, which continued to swoon due to funding problems faced by ailing British mortgage lending  Northern Rock, which highlighted the troubles plaguing financial markets.   

In addition to the Fed's announcement on rates, market participants were also waiting for the central bank's post-meeting statement, which investors will pore over for clues into the Fed's outlook on the economy and rates.   

One key point will be whether the Fed continues to place priority on inflation risks despite signs that the economy is faltering, along with any suggestions that the central bank may continue to lower rates.   

A slew of economic data including figures on inflation and housing due later in the week will also help investors to better gauge the state of the economy, following signs earlier in the month that the housing sector continues to struggle, as well as shockingly weak employment figures.   

In addition to the Fed meeting, investors will scrutinise testimony from Chairman Ben Bernanke on Thursday, when he will speak on the subprime crisis before the House Financial Services Committee.   
   RFMARKETS-TREASURIES-ASIA|LANGEN|RBN|ABN|M|J|D|NAT|AUF|E|U|MNI|RNP|DNP|PTD|PMF   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | gcat : Political/General News | m131 : Money Markets | m15 : Derivative Securities | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ntop : Dow Jones/Reuters Top Wire News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REasiaz : Asia | jap : Japan | usa : United States | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America   IPCDBT | GVD | INT | MCE | MMT | NEWS | DRV | STIR | MUNI | US/T | US/   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020070918e39i0008j  



 HDFED FOCUS-Fed move bolsters views of more cuts ahead      BYBy Ros Krasny      WC795 words   PD19 September 2007   ET23:53   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007 Reuters Limited   
   LPCHICAGO, Sept 19 (Reuters) - Tuesday's bold half-point interest rate cut from the Federal Reserve has solidified calls for much lower rates to help an economy bruised by credit woes and a housing recession.   

The Federal Open Market Committee lowered its target for the key overnight lending rate to 4.75 percent from 5.25 percent, the first reduction since 2003.   
   TDFinancial futures show an 76-percent chance that the Fed will ease again at its next meeting in October <FFX7> on its way to a federal funds rate of between 4 percent and 4.25 percent by mid-2008 <EDM8>.   

Still, not all analysts were convinced that the Fed's policy-setting body will continue slashing rates in such a swashbuckling fashion.   

"It is OK to pencil in a 25 basis point move in October. But this call must receive incoming data that show the labor market is weakening," said Christopher Rupkey, chief financial economist at  Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi in New York.   

Making its move, the U.S. central bank cited "uncertainty" about the economic outlook given the tightening of credit conditions over the past month and its potential to worsen the housing market correction.   

Taking a cue from the Fed, a number of investment banks and major bond market dealers lowered their view on where the federal funds rate would be moving to and marked down forecasts for economic growth.   

"We now expect real GDP growth to drop into a 1 percent to 1.5 percent annualized range beginning in the fourth quarter and extending into the middle of next year," said  Goldman Sachs economist Ed McKelvey. The federal funds rate could hit 4 percent by early 2008, he said.   

Lehman Brothers also slashed its forecast for economic growth and the federal funds rate, saying it expects the benchmark lending rate to plumb a low of 4 percent by next spring. Before the Fed's meeting it had expected the rate to only reach 4.75 percent.   

"The more we study the stresses in the housing and credit markets, the more we are inclined to cut growth going forward," Ethan Harris, chief U.S. economist at Lehman, said in a research note.   

"We have sliced Q4/Q4 growth for the next year from 2.1 percent to 1.6 percent. This includes lowering consumption, home construction and business fixed investment," he said.   

Merrill Lynch said overnight rates could fall to 3.5 percent by the second quarter of next year, while the giant bond firm PIMCO said a 3 percent to 3.25 percent target rate is possible.   

BNP Paribas said Tuesday's rate cut showed a realization that the Fed had "slipped badly behind the curve" in its forecast for "moderate" GDP growth.   

"The contrast between the discussion of economic growth prospects in the latest policy statement and what the committee had previously said is particularly stark," said BNP senior economist Richard Iley.   

"The Fed's action is seen only as helping offset 'some,' but by definition no means all, of the adverse impact of tighter credit conditions on the economy," he said, adding that 2008 growth looks likely to come in closer to 1 percent than 2 percent.   

SOFT DISSENTS?   

Tuesday's federal funds cut was approved unanimously by the 10 voting members of the FOMC, but a "soft dissent" came from five of the twelve regional Fed banks -- Atlanta, Chicago, Dallas, Philadelphia and Richmond.   

In concert with the FOMC's decision to lower the federal funds rate, the central bank's board approved a matching half-point cut in the discount rate requested by the seven other regional banks, suggesting the silent five may not have seen the need for such dramatic action.   

Richmond, Atlanta and Dallas fell in line on Wednesday.   

Of the five original holdouts, two have presidents who will move into voting slots on the FOMC next year -- Richard Fisher of Dallas and Charles Plosser of Philadelphia.   

In its statement, the FOMC pledged to "monitor inflation developments carefully."   

Many analysts waved off the comment as central bank boilerplate and a way of stemming dissent, but others saw it as a way to preserve maximum flexibility given the uncertainty hanging over the economy.   

"The inflation warning ... gives the Fed free reign to move in any direction," said Chris Low, chief economist at FTN Financial in New York.   

"If the credit crunch drags on and/or the economy weakens further, there will be further rate cuts. If spreads narrow and the money markets unclog, the Fed may reverse the ease, and if neither one happens they may do nothing."   
   RFUSA-FED/|LANGEN|ABN|E|RBN|D|U|M|MNI|RNP|DNP   NSe1101 : Economic Growth | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | e1202 : Interest Rates | gvexe : Executive Branch | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCFED | CEN | MCE | PLCY | STIR | INT | WASH   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020070919e39j003bd  



 HDUS SWAPS-Spreads contract after surprise Fed rate move      WC390 words   PD18 September 2007   ET20:30   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007 Reuters Limited   
   LP(Recasts lead, updates market action, adds table)   

NEW YORK, Sept 18 (Reuters) - U.S. interest rate swap spreads narrowed dramatically on Tuesday after the Federal Reserve slashed short-term interest rates by a larger-than-expected 50 basis points in a bid to stimulate economic growth.   
   TDSwap spreads, seen as a gauge of risk appetite, improved with stocks and other risky assets like corporate bonds on expectations that cheaper borrowing costs would bolster credit availability and corporate profits.   

The 10-year swap spread was 61.50 basis points, a level not seen in nearly three months, compared with 68.25 basis points late Monday.   

The two-year swap spread was 64.50 basis points, versus 69.50 basis points late Monday.   

Most Wall Street economists had predicted that the Fed would cut the federal funds rate, or overnight borrowing costs between banks, by only 25 basis points to counter the negative effects from the housing slump and subprime turmoil.   

However, the Fed decided to take a more aggressive approach given the recent evidence that housing and subprime problems have hurt credit conditions outside the real estate sector.   

"Today's action is intended to help forestall some of the adverse effects on the broader economy that might otherwise arise from the disruptions in financial markets and to promote moderate growth over time," the Federal Open Market Committee said in a statement after its policy meeting.   

The Fed's bold move was well received by stock investors. The three major U.S. stock indexes rose sharply, with the Standard & Poor's 500 index <.SPX> climbing almost 3 percent.    


------------------------SWAP SPREADS-------------------------
   Sept 18 Sept 17 Sept 14 Sept 13 Sept 12 Sept 11 Sept 10
2-YR  64.50    69.50    69.75  72.25  77.25   77.75    77.25
3-YR  64.00    68.75    68.50  69.75  72.25   73.50    73.25
5-YR  61.50    68.25    67.75  67.00  68.50   69.75    69.25
10-YR 61.50    68.25    67.25  65.50  65.50   66.25    65.25
30-YR 59.50    66.25    65.00  62.50  61.50   62.00    60.75
---------------------------------------------------------------
   
   RFMARKETS-SWAPS (UPDATE 2)|LANGEN|Table|ABN|E|RBN|D|M|MNI|U|RNP|DNP   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | m131 : Money Markets | m15 : Derivative Securities | ntab : Table | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | niwe : IWE Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCFIN | INT | MCE | DBT | DRV | STIR | MMT | MUNI | SWP/ | EMBG:DBT | EMBG:SWP/ | embargokeyE2E2E2   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020070921e39i002fm  



 HDUS SWAPS-Spreads tighten after surprise Fed rate move      WC283 words   PD18 September 2007   ET20:30   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007 Reuters Limited   
   LP(Adds details)   

NEW YORK, Sept 18 (Reuters) - Spreads on U.S. interest rate swaps narrowed on Tuesday after the Federal Reserve lowered key short-term interest rates by a bigger-than-expected 50 basis points in a bid to stimulate economic growth.   
   TDSwap spreads, seen as a gauge of risk appetite, improved with stocks and other risky assets like corporate bonds on expectations that cheaper borrowing costs would bolster credit availability and corporate profits.   

Ten-year swap spread was 65.25 basis points, compared with 68.25 basis points late Monday.   

Two-year swap spread was 66.50 basis points, versus 69.50 basis points late Monday.   

Most Wall Street economists had predicted that the Fed would cut the federal funds rate, or overnight borrowing costs between banks, by only 25 basis points to counter the negative effects from the housing slump and subprime turmoil.   

However, the Fed decided to take a more aggressive approach given the recent evidence that housing and subprime problems have hurt credit conditions outside the real estate sector.   

"Today's action is intended to help forestall some of the adverse effects on the broader economy that might otherwise arise from the disruptions in financial markets and to promote moderate growth over time," the Federal Open Market Committee said in a statement after its policy meeting.   

The Fed's bold move was well received by stock investors. The three major U.S. stock indexes rose sharply, with the Standard & Poor's 500 index <.SPX> climbing as much as 2.3 percent.   
   RFMARKETS-SWAPS (UPDATE 1)|LANGEN|Table|ABN|E|RBN|D|M|MNI|U|RNP|DNP   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | m131 : Money Markets | m15 : Derivative Securities | ntab : Table | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | niwe : IWE Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCFIN | INT | MCE | DBT | DRV | STIR | MMT | MUNI | SWP/ | EMBG:DBT | EMBG:SWP/ | embargokeyE2E2   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020070921e39i002fn  



 HDUS CORP BONDS-Spreads tighten after Fed rate cut      WC476 words   PD18 September 2007   ET22:13   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007 Reuters Limited   
   LPNEW YORK, Sept 18 (Reuters) - U.S. corporate bond spreads narrowed and debt protection costs fell on Tuesday after the Federal Reserve cut interest rates aggressively to shield the economy from a housing slump and credit squeeze.   

The Fed lowered the overnight federal funds rate by 50 basis points to 4.75 percent, the first cut since June 2003.   
   TDInvestment-grade corporate bond spreads narrowed by about 5 basis points, with some of the more volatile names about 10 basis points tighter, a trader said.   

"Everything has tightened in quickly here," said Mirko Mikelic, portfolio manager for Fifth Third Asset Management in Grand Rapids, Michigan. "I think most people were not expecting 50."   

Financial markets had widely expected the Fed to lower overnight borrowing costs but were split over whether the cut would be 25 or 50 basis points. The move was the first 50 basis-point cut since November 2002.   

The main index of investment-grade credit default swaps narrowed by about 3.5 basis points to 61 basis points, market sources said. The index had narrowed by 3 basis points earlier in the day in anticipation of a Fed cut.   

Spreads on  Lehman Brothers' 6.5 percent notes due in 2017 tightened by 25 basis points to 187 basis points over Treasuries, according to MarketAxess.   

"There's still problems out there to be resolved, particularly in the subprime (mortgage) area," Mikelic said. "But we live in a very interest rate-sensitive economy and this will help some people to refinance out of their problems and just in general will help provide a little more liquidity."   

In another positive sign for the market, the first two new junk bond issues since Aug. 22 appeared in the market.   

Late on Monday,  Baseline Oil & Gas Corp. sold $115 million of senior secured notes. Market sources said Oklahoma's Downstream Development Authority plans to sell $197 million of junk bonds some time this week.   

"As some riskier credits get priced like Baseline, we're seeing nibbling in some of the credits that were more depressed," said Kingman Penniman, president of high-yield research firm KDP Investment Advisors.   

The cost to insure the debt of brokers also fell.   

Credit default swap spreads on  Bear Stearns Cos. and  Lehman Brothers each fell around 8 basis points to 102.5 basis points, or $102,500 per year for five years to insure $10 million in debt, and 92.5 basis points respectively, said an analyst.   

Merrill Lynch's debt protection costs fell 3 basis points to 55.5 basis points,  Morgan Stanley fell 7 basis points to 50.5 basis points and  Goldman Sachs fell 4 basis points to 49.5 basis points. (Additional reporting by Karen Brettell)   
   RFMARKETS-USCORPBONDS|LANGEN|Table|ABN|M|D|E|RBN|U   INibcs : Business/Consumer Services | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSm12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m15 : Derivative Securities | ntab : Table | e1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | niwe : IWE Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCUSC | DBT | CDV | IGD | HYD | BUS | IND | MAC | INVS | FUND | BNK | FIN | INVT | BSVC | FINS | CPX | USC/ | EMBG:DBT | embargokeyE1   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020070921e39i002lx  



 HDUS CREDIT-Broker spreads cheer rate cut, may rally further      BYBy Karen Brettell      WC563 words   PD18 September 2007   ET22:30   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007 Reuters Limited   
   LPNEW YORK, Sept 18 (Reuters) - Credit investors in U.S. brokers cheered the Federal Reserve's half point interest rate cut on Tuesday, and while the move is likely to further boost spreads of a sector many analysts already viewed as cheap, risks to their debt remain.   

The unanimous decision by the central bank's Federal Open Market Committee took the overnight federal funds rate down to 4.75 percent, its lowest level since May of last year, in a move to buffer the economy from a housing slump and related financial market turbulence. For details, see [ID:nN18433941].   
   TD"This aggressive move is a sign that the Fed is determined to head off any potential deepening of the problems in the credit markets from the heavy leveraged buyout funding calendar, the liquidity disruptions in the front end, and the problems in the residential housing sector," said Edward Marrinan, head of high grade strategy at  JPMorgan in New York.   

A backlog of more than $300 billion in debt is waiting to be sold to fund corporate leveraged buyouts.   

"While the news of a preemptive 50 basis point cut by the Fed is a welcome surprise, it is likely going to take some time for the beneficial effects of this easing to work its way through the system and to start reducing some of the key sources of risk concentrated in the financial markets," Marrinan said.   

"This move is directly supportive of financial institutions valuations," he said. "While there is no denying the positive effects such a rate cut can have, this is not a panacea for everything that's been ailing in the world of credit -- but it definitely is a big help."   

Debt protection costs on  Bear Stearns Cos. and  Lehman Brothers each fell around 8 basis points after the cut to 102.5 basis points, or $102,500 per year for five years to insure $10 million in debt, and 92.5 basis points, respectively, said an analyst.   

Merrill Lynch debt protection costs fell 3 basis points to 55.5 basis points,  Morgan Stanley fell 7 basis points to 50.5 basis points, and  Goldman Sachs fell 4 basis points to 49.5 basis points.   

A lower-than-expected decline in earnings by  Lehman Brothers also set a more positive tone for brokers earlier on Tuesday. [ID:nN18400600]   

Bank of America analysts said in a report sent ahead of the Fed meeting that though financials risk further volatility, at current trading levels they are cheap relative to other sectors.   

"Following the financial sector leading industrials in this cycle, we expect financials to outperform industrial credits in the medium term, although the fluid current state of financial markets likely continues to feed volatility in the short term," they said.   

GOLDMAN SACHS, MORGAN STANLEY   

Credit Suisse analysts, meanwhile, view  Goldman Sachs and  Morgan Stanley as the brokers most likely to outperform.   

"We favor Goldman entering a period of continued financial difficulty as we expect the company will capitalize on advisory and restructuring mandates," analyst Donald Jones said in a report on Monday.   

"We agree with the tendency for the market to price  Morgan Stanley alongside  Goldman Sachs given the similar net revenue origination of each broker."   
   RFMARKETS-CREDIT/ (ANALYSIS)|LANGEN|ABN|E|U|RBN|M|D|RNP|DNP   NSm15 : Derivative Securities | e1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCUSC | DBT | CDV | DRV | IGD | HYD | INVS | FIN | FUND | BSVC | FINS | CPX | CDV/ | EMBG:DBT | EMBG:CDV/ | embargokeyE2   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020070921e39i002n3  



 HDEmerging debt-Market rally on aggressive US  interest rate  cut      BYBy Daniel Bases      WC587 words   PD18 September 2007   ET22:35   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007 Reuters Limited   
   LPNEW YORK, Sept 18 (Reuters) - Emerging sovereign debt rallied on Tuesday after the U.S. Federal Reserve took a more aggressive road by cutting interest rates half a percentage point to bolster the flagging U.S. economy.   

Concerned that the U.S. housing market's troubles might metamorphose into a full-blown economic crisis, the reduction in U.S. rates spurred an immediate rally across the emerging markets asset class.   
   TDThe stronger the U.S. economy, the greater the demand for emerging market exports of commodities and value-added goods.   

"There were concerns over the U.S. economy, but if the Fed was perceived as being behind the curve, then concerns over emerging markets would intensify," said Nuno Camara, senior Latin American economist at Dresdner Kleinwort in New York.   

"The very fact that rates were cut by 50 (basis points) shows that we could see a slowdown but that they are working to mitigate this," Camara said, saying that was good news for emerging markets.   

Perceptions of emerging market risk improved as yield spreads tightened back to their best levels in more than a month. The benchmark  JP Morgan Emerging Markets Bond Index Plus <11EMJ><.JPMEMBIPLUS> showed yield spreads tighter by 11 basis points at 211 basis points over U.S. Treasuries.   

Latin American stocks and currencies also rallied as the drop by 50 basis points in the U.S. federal funds rate to 4.75 percent boosted the attractiveness of higher-yielding emerging market assets.   

The Morgan Stanley Capital International Latin American stock index <.MILA00000PUS> surged more than 5 percent on the day while the MSCI Emerging Markets stock index rose 1.21 percent <.MSCIEF>.   

Brazil's benchmark sovereign bond due 2040, the most liquid external sovereign credit, rose 0.69 point in price to bid 133.50, pushing the yield down to 5.679 percent <BRAGLB40=RR>.   

Separately, another good piece of news for Brazil came from the International Monetary Fund, which praised the country's near-term economic prospects, calling them favourable. The IMF expects gross domestic product to expand 4.5 percent this year as domestic demand picks up and is supported by monetary easing.   

Growth was 3.7 percent last year.   

"The market had rallied ahead of the Fed and then even more. We are seeing CDS (credit default swaps) narrow a lot, but I cannot be sure this isn't just short-covering after the fact" of the Fed's cut, said one trader at a German bank in New York. "I don't think this looks like new positions being put on, but hard to tell,"   

Argentina's five-year credit default swaps, which offer investors protection against defaults or restructurings, narrowed by around 30 to 35 basis points to about 390 basis points.   

The benchmark Argentine 2033 discount bond <ARGGLB33=RR>, a volatile issue, rose 4.063 points in price to bid 91.438.   

Economies with a heavy reliance on oil also saw their sovereign credits rally as the drop in U.S. interest rates is expected to limit the decline in economic growth and keep the demand for oil from collapsing.   

Venezuela's 2027 bond <VENGLB27=RR> rose 2.187 points in price to bid 102.50, yielding 8.978 percent.   

Ecuador's 2015 issue <ECUGLB30=RR> gained 1.50 points in price to bid 89.50, yielding 11.433 percent.   
   RFMARKETS-EMERGINGDEBT/|LANGEN|ABN|M|D|E|RBN|U|RNP|DNP   NSmgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | e1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REdevgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | mex : Mexico | usa : United States | camz : Central America | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | lamz : Latin America | namz : North America   IPCDBT | GVD | EMRG/DBT | EMBG:DBT | EMBG:EMRG/DBT | embargokeyE2   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020070921e39i002nb  



 HDANALYSIS-US rate cut could lead to FX policy dilemma for Asia      BYBy Susan Fenton      WC699 words   PD19 September 2007   ET12:03   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007 Reuters Limited   
   LPHONG KONG, Sept 19 (Reuters) - An aggressive U.S. interest rate cut eased fears in Asia about the impact on export demand from a U.S. downturn, but policy makers could face a dilemma if the dollar slips into an extended period of weakness.   

Economists said the U.S. rate cut would help stem a slowdown in the world's biggest economy and Asia's number-one export market, which would support demand for Asian goods.   
   TDBut Asian policy makers will want to keep currency appreciation resulting from a weak dollar in check because that would make Asian exports less competitive at a time when there are doubts about the outlook for global growth.   

"Asian policymakers will need to be on the lookout for too rapid currency appreciation, especially when the global outlook is looking foggier," said Rob Subbaraman, Asia economist at  Lehman Brothers.

The U.S. Federal Reserve cut its key fed funds rate by half a percentage point to 4.75 percent, the first cut in four years, to try to shield the economy from the housing slump that has led to a global credit crunch and financial market turbulence.   

Global stocks have rallied on the Fed's move, which included a half point cut in the U.S. discount rate used for direct loans to banks. The dollar slumped to a 15-year low and hit a record low against the euro <EUR=>.   

There were already signs Asian policy makers were agitated by the currency rally, with South Korean policy makers warning markets they would not allow a steep appreciation in the won, which hit a six-week high.   

The currency has rallied more than 8 percent since the start of 2006 and more than 28 percent since the end of 2003.   

"The Korean won <KRW=> has moved up a great deal more than other Asian currencies so it's hard for Korean exporters," Tim Condon, Asia economist at ING Financial Markets, said.   

JAPAN CAUTIOUS   

The Fed's rate cut prompted policy makers in Indonesia and the Philippines to suggest they could follow suit. [ID:nSP65482] [ID:nJAK95365]   

The Bank of Japan, which wants to raise its ultra-low rates, kept them steady at a two-day meeting that finished on Wednesday. Bank of Japan Governor Toshihiko Fukui said global economic uncertainty had grown because of risks in the U.S. economy. [ID:nT79378]   

However, the Hong Kong Monetary Authority cut its base rate by 50 basis points to match the Fed move, a widely expected response since the Hong Kong dollar <HKD=> is pegged to the U.S. dollar.   

The head of the Asian Development Bank, Haruhiko Kuroda, said the Fed rate cuts would be welcomed by Asia.   

"It would definitely improve the prospects of sustained, strong economic growth in the U.S. which will be beneficial for countries in the region."   

But David Riley, global head of sovereign ratings at ratings agency Fitch, suggested relief at the rate cut may be misplaced.   

He said the magnitude of the rate cut signalled the Fed believed the U.S. economy was in worse shape than previously thought.   

"Clearly, the Fed is worried that significant tightening of credit conditions will have an impact on the real economy," he said.   

Still, he believes a U.S. recession is unlikely and forecast U.S. growth next year of around 2 percent, down from an earlier projection of 2.7 percent.   

The United States remains Asia's biggest exports market, making the region vulnerable to a U.S. downturn. However, exports within Asia and to Europe are picking up.   

Economists argue Asia would weather a modest slowdown in the world's biggest economy, but it would suffer if the U.S. slipped into recession.   

Riley expects the Fed to hold off changing rates at its next meeting in October but sees a chance for a quarter point cut in the fed funds rate before the end of the year if the U.S. jobs market weakens.   
   RFASIA-ECONOMY/FED (ANALYSIS)|LANGEN|ABN|M|E|RBN|D|U|NAT|SI|PHD|IF|Z   NSe1101 : Economic Growth | e1118 : Trade Figures | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | gdip : International Relations | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e51 : Trade/External Payments | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations   REasiaz : Asia | china : China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | hkong : Hong Kong | skorea : South Korea | usa : United States | chinaz : Greater China | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America   IPCTCF | MCE | TRD | DIP | INT | STIR | PLCY | EMBG:PLCY | embargokeyE1   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020070922e39j000ds  



 HDPOLL-Many see BOJ rate hike pushed back to October      BYBy Chikako Mogi      WC762 words   PD19 September 2007   ET12:42   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007 Reuters Limited   
   LPTOKYO, Sept 19 (Reuters) - The Bank of Japan is likely to keep interest rates on hold until December or maybe early next year, while it gauges the effect of global markets turmoil on U.S. growth, a Reuters poll showed on Wednesday.   

The BOJ is determined to raise Japan's very low interest rates, a point governor Toshihiko Fukui made again on Wednesday, but expectations for when it will do so have been pushed back after it kept them on hold on Wednesday, as expected.   
   TDFukui said downside risks for the U.S. economy were increasing, underscoring caution among analysts about how much credit market turbulence has hurt the U.S. economy, particularly after the U.S. Federal Reserve slashed interest rates on Tuesday.   

The poll of 52 traders and analysts in Tokyo's currency, bond and money markets showed that 27 respondents see the central bank lifting its overnight rate target to a 12-year high of 0.75 percent by the end of 2007, with 16 of these expecting the next move in December.   

A further 17 said they expected the BOJ to raise rates to 0.75 percent in the first quarter of 2008.   

Expectations for two rate hikes between now and the end of March -- the end of Japan's financial year -- slid to just 15 percent from 51 percent at last month's poll.   

Nearly half of those surveyed said the BOJ would not manage a second rate hike, likely to take Japanese rates up to 1 percent, until the second quarter of 2008.   

But the expectation was that this was a lull, not a turnaround, in monetary policy.   

"A 50 basis point rate cut by the Fed was expected, and I think this will be it. Once the global financial markets stabilise and firmness in the U.S. fundamentals becomes clearer towards the year-end, the BOJ will likely boost rates," said Yuichi Kodama, a senior economist at  Meiji Yasuda Life Insurance.

Those surveyed said the BOJ needed to see a return to stability in the markets, a fall in global liquidity concerns and an improvement in U.S. economic data, to get rate hikes back on track.   

"The Fed's drastic measure will help calm global markets and the BOJ will likely purely focus on domestic economic conditions to seek the timing for a rate increase, possibly in November, as the BOJ is not concerned about the credit crunch at home," said Susumu Kato, chief economist at Calyon Capital Markets.   

Fukui told reporters on Wednesday that interest rate levels were very low in view of Japan's solid economic growth, but that global economic uncertainty has grown due to risks to the U.S. economy.   

"There is no change in the need to adjust interest rates if the economy moves in line with our scenario," Fukui said. He also said the central bank did not see the need for now to drastically change its scenario in the BOJ's outlook report.   

The BOJ's policy board voted by 8-1 to keep rates unchanged, with board member Atsushi Mizuno for the third time in a row going alone in seeking an increase.   

A Reuters survey after the Fed's rate decision showed many primary dealers expect a rate cut in October, with the federal funds rate seen standing at 4.50 percent by year-end.   

Timing of next rate increase:   

Sept 19 Aug 23 Aug 13 2007    


 Oct. 10-11      2/52             11/51
 Oct. 31         3/52              7/51
 Nov.            6/52              9/51
 Dec.           16/52              3/51
 2008
 Q1             17/52              4/51            0/45
 Q2              7/52              3/51            2/45
 Q3              0/52              0/51            0/45
 Q4              0/52              0/51            0/45
 Other           1/52              0/51            2/45
 Timing of subsequent rate increase:
 2007
 Dec.            0/52              1/51            1/45
 2008
 Jan.            1/52              2/51            9/45
 Feb.            2/52             12/51           20/45
 March           5/52             11/51            5/45
 Q2             24/52             16/51            3/45
 Q3              8/52              3/51            1/45
 Other          12/52              6/51            6/45
 What would be crucial factors that would trigger the BOJ's
next rate hike (multiple choices)?
 Global liquidity crunch subsiding:      34
 Improvement in U.S. economic data:      13
 U.S. Fed rates bottoming:               12
 Japanese share prices rising:            6
 Japanese CPI rising:                    12
 Japanese GDP improving:                  8
 Others:                                  9
   
   RFJAPAN-ECONOMY/RATES (POLL)|LANGEN|ABX|BNX|FUN   NSe1101 : Economic Growth | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | gcat : Political/General News | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ntop : Dow Jones/Reuters Top Wire News | e1202 : Interest Rates | nsur : Survey/Poll | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REasiaz : Asia | jap : Japan | usa : United States | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America   IPCGVD | DBT | BOJ | INT | MCE | PLCY | CEN | NEWS | BOJ/INT | EMBG:DBT | EMBG:PLCY | embargokeyE1E1   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020070922e39j000ef  



 HDASSET-BACKEDS-Buyers show interest, ABX flat      WC383 words   PD19 September 2007   ET19:58   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007 Reuters Limited   
   LPNEW YORK, Sept 19 (Reuters) - Buyers are showing more interest in U.S. asset-backed securities on Wednesday after the Federal Reserve sharply cut interest rates, while benchmark ABX subprime mortgage indexes traded flat in light activity.   

"There are more customers that want to talk about actually putting money to work, as opposed to talking about all the bad news in the market," one trader said.   
   TDThe tone in the U.S. asset-backed securities market has actually improved for several sessions, partly from expectations of a Fed interest rate cut, with issuers like  Citigroup and World Omni Auto enlarging their offerings before selling them.   

Barclays Capital and  J.P. Morgan Chase were marketing an $858 million auto securitization for Hyundai Auto on Wednesday, with pricing possible during the session, a market source said.   

Still, most mortgage-related securitizations are still having a very tough time finding buyers.   

"It's hard to say" when issuance of home-equity asset-backed securities will return, the trader said.   

"There's still some unanswered questions in terms of the housing market and performance," he said. But with "the Fed cutting (its rate target), you hope that it loosens up the vice grip that people have had on lending."   

The Fed on Tuesday cut its target for the federal-funds rate by a half-percentage point, and also lowered its discount rate, which it charges on direct loans to banks, by a half-point.   

In the derivatives market, trading was fairly quiet, with the ABX subprime mortgage index clinging to its closing levels from Tuesday.   

The riskiest "BBB-minus" slice of the 2007-1 ABX index, which references subprime loans made in last year's second half, was broadly unchanged, an ABX trader said. That index closed on Tuesday at 34.88, according to Markit.com.   

The next milestone for ABX traders will be the Sept. 25 release of fresh "remittance reports," or loan data, which provide a snapshot of subprime loan performance in outstanding securities over the last 30 days.   

"Remittance reports are coming out soon," the ABX trader said. "So it's really hard to determine what's going to happen" with the index.   
   RFMARKETS-ASSETBACKEDS|LANGEN|Table|ABN|M|D|E|RBN|U|MNI   CObcaptl : Barclays Capital Securities Ltd | barc : Barclays PLC | bbibnk : Barclays Bank PLC   INi82 : Insurance | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | ibnk : Banking/Credit | i814 : Banking | i831 : Financial Investments | i83101 : Investment Banking | iinv : Investing/Securities   NSccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e1122 : Mortgage Applications/Refinancing | e1202 : Interest Rates | m15 : Derivative Securities | mcabs : Asset Backed Securities | ntab : Table | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mcpdbt : Corporate Debt/Bond Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | niwe : IWE Filter   REcana : Canada | usa : United States | namz : North America   IPCMTG | DBT | FIN | ABS | STIR | MCE | DRV | REAM | FUND | INS | BNK | BUS | IND | MAC | MUL | COFS | ABS/ | EMBG:DBT | embargokeyE1   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020070922e39j000lr  



 HDUS SWAPS-Falling short-term bank rates compress spreads      WC333 words   PD19 September 2007   ET20:26   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007 Reuters Limited   
   LPNEW YORK, Sept 19 (Reuters) - Spreads on U.S. interest rate swaps narrowed sharply on Wednesday, as short-term floating-rate lending costs between banks slid a day after the Federal Reserve's surprise half-percentage-point rate cut.   

Swap spreads, seen as a gauge of risk appetite, tightened dramatically for a second day on confidence that the Fed took a major step to avert a credit crisis and stimulate economic growth.   
   TDKey variable bank rates fell after the Fed slashed the federal funds rate to 4.75 percent from 5.25 percent. The three-month dollar London Interbank Overnight Rate was fixed at 5.2375 percent, the lowest since mid-2006, from 5.5875 percent on Tuesday.   

The decline in the floating-rate benchmark of a dollar swap transaction helped to reduce swaps' yield premiums over Treasuries.   

"It's mostly a reflection of the Fed's ability to re-liquidify the market," said Fidelio Tata, head of derivatives strategy at RBS Greenwich Capital in Greenwich, Connecticut.   

The 10-year swap spread narrowed to 60.50 basis points, its tightest in about three months, compared with 61.50 basis points late Tuesday.   

The two-year swap spread contracted to 60.50 basis points, its tightest since mid-August, versus 64.50 basis points late Tuesday.   

At the peak of the credit turmoil, the 10-year swap spread swelled to 83.25 basis points and the two-year swap spread ballooned to 82.25 basis points.   

Given the sharp two-day compression in spreads, some players have already begun booking profits on spread tightening positions, RBS's Tata said.   

While the Fed's rate move has bolstered the recovery in swaps, it is unclear whether swap spreads would tighten further without more Fed rate cuts and evidence of substantial improvement in credit conditions, such as more corporate bond supply, Tata said.   
   RFMARKETS-SWAPS|LANGEN|Table|ABN|D|M|MNI|E|U|DNP   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | m131 : Money Markets | m15 : Derivative Securities | ntab : Table | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | niwe : IWE Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCFIN | INT | MCE | DBT | DRV | STIR | MMT | MUNI | SWP/ | EMBG:DBT | EMBG:SWP/ | embargokeyE2   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020070922e39j000m8  



 HDUS CORP BONDS-Spreads extend rally from rate cut      WC523 words   PD19 September 2007   ET22:14   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007 Reuters Limited   
   LPNEW YORK, Sept 19 (Reuters) - U.S. corporate credit spreads improved further on Wednesday, boosted by the Federal Reserve's half percentage point interest rate cut on Tuesday that raised optimism the economy may not be headed into recession.   

The central bank's Federal Open Market Committee took the overnight federal funds rate down to 4.75 percent, its lowest level since last May, in a move to buffer the economy from a housing slump and related financial market turbulence. For details, see [ID:nN18433941].   
   TDCorporate spreads extended their rally on Wednesday, with the benchmark investment grade credit derivative index tightening to 56 basis points, its tightest level in almost two months.   

"It does increase the confidence on the part of investors that the Fed is really committed to doing everything that it can to ease the crisis, and I think that confidence will translate into investors returning back to corporate credit," said John Tierney, head of U.S. credit derivatives research at  Deutsche Bank in New York. "It's more of a confidence booster than anything else."   

"For high yield it may also encourage people that were getting more concerned about the possibility of recession and rising defaults that the recession scenario is less likely and make people more confident in investing at present spreads," Tierney added.   

For now, companies are wasting no time in taking advantage of the Fed's rate cut.   

Yellow Pages publisher  R.H. Donnelley Corp. surfaced with a $650 million junk bond sale just after the Fed action. In the high-grade market,  Lehman Brothers ,  JP Morgan , Canadian National Railway , Weyerhaeuser ,  Suncor Energy and  General Electric Co.'s  General Electric Capital Corp. have all appeared with deals since the rate cut.   

Debt of U.S. brokers and home builders were among the biggest gainers since the rate cut, after months of being beaten up on concerns about how spreading weakness stemming from residential mortgages would impact earnings.   

"Our initial take is that there are two potential positives for the homebuilders from the rate cut," Christopher Brown, analyst at  Bank of America, said in a report.   

"First, lower rates could potentially aid affordability," he said. "However, while floating rates tied to Libor may fall marginally, fixed rates generally move in line with the 10-year Treasury, which did not move materially post-Fed."   

"Unfortunately we believe the biggest issue facing the builders continues to be the excess inventory," Brown added.   

Hovnanian Enterprises Inc. chief executive Ara Hovnanian said on Tuesday that the company's "Deal of the Century" promotion last weekend generated 10 times the usual sales volumes, which justified the discounts and incentives of some $100,000 per home, as the builder works to reduce its inventory. [ID:nN18410543]   

Hovnanian's 6 percent bond due 2010 rose 3.975 cents on the dollar on Wednesday to 80.24 cents, according to MarketAxess.   

"We believe the industry continues to be troubled and fundamentals are unlikely to improve any time soon," Brown added. (Additional reporting by Dena Aubin)   
   RFMARKETS-USCORPBONDS|LANGEN|ABN|M|D|E|RBN|U   INicre : Construction/Real Estate | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSm12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m15 : Derivative Securities | e1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCUSC | DBT | CDV | IGD | HYD | HOME | BNK | FIN | CON | CYCP | CYCS | HBHG | ADVT | BU | CPX | USC/ | EMBG:DBT | embargokeyE1   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020070922e39j000nu  



 HDCorporate chiefs welcome U.S. Fed rate cut      WC418 words   PD18 September 2007   ET22:30   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007 Reuters Limited   
   LPNEW YORK, Sept 18 (Reuters) - The leaders of U.S. companies welcomed the Federal Reserve's move to slash interest rates on Tuesday, but one questioned whether it would be enough to revive a faltering economy.   

"It will probably stop the bleeding, but the question is whether it will provide the impetus the economy needs," said Bill Zollars, chief executive of  YRC Worldwide Inc , North America's largest trucking company.   
   TD"Unless we see a dramatic change, I believe we're going to need more (interest rate) cuts."   

The Fed's half-percentage-point cut of benchmark rates met the most aggressive expectations on Wall Street as U.S. business struggles with a housing slump, ebbing consumer confidence and turmoil in the debt and equity markets.   

CEOs from a range of sectors applauded.   

"The more confidence that's coming from them (the Fed), the better. Any of that is good news right now," said James Hyatt, CEO of sandwich shop chain  Cosi Inc . "Any time they are getting involved, that's favorable to all of us who are running businesses and trying to chase consumers."   

Recreational vehicle company  Winnebago Industries Inc also backed the Fed cut.   

"Glad to see they dropped it half a percent," said Bruce Hertzke, CEO of the No. 1 U.S. motor home maker. "Think that'll help our business and the economy a little bit more. Should hopefully get things rolling again."   

The National Association of Manufacturers (NAM), a lobby group for U.S. producers, unequivocally welcomed the cut.   

"By lowering interest rates and reducing the cost of capital, today's decision will help boost business investment and keep the expansion on track," said NAM's chief economist David Huether. "This is especially good news for durable goods manufacturers who produce capital goods."   

The Fed made its intention clear in a statement outlining its decision.   

"Today's action is intended to help forestall some of the adverse effects on the broader economy that might otherwise arise from the disruptions in financial markets and to promote moderate growth over time," the Fed said.   

The unanimous decision by the central bank's Federal Open Market Committee took the overnight federal funds rate down to 4.75 percent, the lowest level since May of last year. (Reporting by Bill Rigby; additional reporting by Nick Carey, Mark Felsenthal, James Kelleher, Nichola Groom)   
   RFUSA-FED/CEOS|LANGEN|ABN|C|D|E|M|O|U|MTL|GRO|SOF|OIL   COyfs : YRC Worldwide Inc   INilgood : Leisure/Travel Goods | irailtr : Road/Rail Transport | icnp : Consumer Products | itsp : Transportation/Shipping | i77002 : Freight Transportation Arrangement | icargo : Freight/Cargo Transport   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News   REasiaz : Asia | cocos : Cocos (Keeling) Islands | usa : United States | namz : North America | seasiaz : Southeast Asia   IPCRRLF | RRL | INDS | RORA | TRAN | LEIS | REC | CYCP | CYCS | HBHG | CAFE | LEI | CPX   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020070918e39i0020i  



 HDUPDATE 2-Philippines hints at rate cut after Fed move      WC536 words   PD19 September 2007   ET03:08   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007 Reuters Limited   
   LP(Adds quotes from central bank governor)   

MANILA, Sept 19 (Reuters) - The Philippine central bank hinted on Wednesday that it could ease local interest rates after the U.S. Federal Reserve slashed its rates and as domestic inflation was low.   
   TDThe central bank left interest rates unchanged at its last meeting in August, but in July cut its headline rates while removing a tiered system on deposits in what analysts said overall was a slight tightening of policy.   

"The Fed decision affords the (central bank) some room for manoeuvre in our own rate-setting given that the outlook for inflation continues to be benign," Governor Amando Tetangco said in a mobile phone text message.   

"In addition, our assessment shows that the risks to this outlook, including liquidity growth, appear to be manageable."   

The central bank's next rate-setting meeting is on Oct. 4.   

Tetangco later told reporters the Fed action was important because the move gave guidance on the assessment for economic growth in the United States, the Philippines' top export market.   

"The cut was expected but it was the size of the cut and the statement that produced greater effect on markets," he said.   

Still, growing intra-regional trade has reduced the country's dependence on U.S. orders.   

"The growing importance of China and India ... provides some shield against the adverse impact of any drastic slowdown of the U.S. economy," Tetangco said.   

The peso <PHP=>, Southeast Asia's strongest currency so far this year against the dollar, rose more than 1 percent following the Fed cut, taking gains for 2007 to 7.5 percent.   

The peso's strength, if sustained, will help offset record high world oil prices, he said.   

"We are now experiencing the most stable macro-economic environment in 20 years," Tetangco said.   

The Philippine central bank slashed its headline overnight borrowing rate by 150 basis points to 6.0 percent in July -- the first cut in four years -- and scrapped a tiered interest rate scheme for overnight money deposited with it under which large deposits earned a lower rate.   

Inflation has been benign over the year despite economic growth topping 7 percent in the first half of 2007. The annual inflation rate in August was 2.4 percent, at the lower end of the central bank's 2.3-3.2 percent band and hovering around 20-year lows.   

The central bank has listed oil prices, high domestic liquidity growth and uncertainty in global credit markets as possible risks to its inflation outlook.   

But annual money supply growth slowed to 18.7 percent in July, the second consecutive month it was below 20 percent, a level cited by the central bank as comfortable.   

Tetangco said there has been limited impact on domestic markets from U.S. subprime mortgage market woes.   

"We've seen some recent relative stability in the markets compared to when the U.S. subprime issue came out but there's still much information that's not yet available to the public," he said. "This situation still needs to be monitored."   
   RFPHILIPPINES-ECONOMY/RATES (UPDATE 2)|LANGEN|ABN|M|E|RBN|D|PHD|RNP|DNP   NSe1201 : Central Bank Intervention | e1202 : Interest Rates | m131 : Money Markets | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REasiaz : Asia | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | phlns : Philippines | usa : United States | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | namz : North America | seasiaz : Southeast Asia   IPCCEN | MCE | STIR | BNK | FIN | INT | MMT | DBT   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020070919e39j0001q  



 HDTREASURIES-Long bonds extend slide after big Fed rate cut      WC511 words   PD19 September 2007   ET06:31   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007 Reuters Limited   
   LPTOKYO, Sept 19 (Reuters) - Longer-dated Treasuries fell further in Asia on Wednesday after the Federal Reserve's surprisingly aggressive interest rate cut the previous day spurred a surge in stocks and raised worries about inflation.   

A jump in oil prices to a record peak and a surge in gold prices to a 16-month high following the Fed's hefty rate cut also stirred concerns that inflation could accelerate and erode the value of longer-dated bonds, said traders.   
   TDThe unanimous decision by the Fed took the benchmark federal funds rate down to 4.75 percent, its lowest since May of last year, as the central bank acted to shield the economy from a deepening housing slump and credit market turbulence.   

The Treasury yield curve steepened further after the Fed's 50-basis point slash forced short-term yields lower even as long-term yields rose on expectations for stronger growth and inflation after the monetary easing.   

"The market speculates that the Fed's surprisingly large rate cut will raise the risk of inflation," said a senior trader at a U.S. investment bank.   

The benchmark 10-year note <US10YT=RR> fell 6/32 in price to yield 4.493 percent, up 2 basis points from late U.S. trade on Tuesday.   

The 30-year bond <US30YT=RR> dropped 12/32 in price to yield 4.775 percent, also rising about 2 basis points.   

Two-year notes <US2YT=RR> slipped 1/32 in price to yield 3.991 percent, up nearly 2 basis points after having dropped nearly 10 basis points on the Fed's cut.   

The spread between two- and 10-year yields widened slightly to about 50 basis points, pushing back towards a peak near 57 basis points hit a month ago -- what was the curve's steepest level in more than two years.   

Ten-year note futures <TYv1> inched lower 1/32 to 109-26.5/32.   

The central bank said it still believed the economy faced some risk of inflation but said market developments since its last meeting in early August had increased the uncertainty surrounding the outlook.   

A Reuters poll of 18 primary bond dealers showed most expect another rate cut in October 4.5 percent and such a level would mark the end of the central bank's monetary easing cycle.   

Traders said data on U.S. inflation later in the day will provide the bond market's first test after the Fed's move.   

An upside surprise in the consumer price index, due at 1230 GMT, could spark a further sell-off in long-dated debt.   

Economists in a Reuters survey expect a flat reading in the CPI for August for an annual inflation rate of 2.1 percent. The core CPI, which excludes food and energy costs, is seen rising 0.2 percent for an annual rate of 2.2 percent.   
   RFMARKETS-TREASURIES-ASIA|LANGEN|RBN|ABN|M|J|D|NAT|AUF|E|U|MNI|RNP|DNP|PTD|PMF   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | gcat : Political/General News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m131 : Money Markets | m15 : Derivative Securities | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ntop : Dow Jones/Reuters Top Wire News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REasiaz : Asia | jap : Japan | usa : United States | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America   IPCDBT | GVD | INT | MCE | MMT | NEWS | DRV | STIR | MUNI | US/T | US/   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020070919e39j0006o  



 HDStocks Soar After Half-Point Rate Cut      BYBy MADLEN READ      CRAP Business Writer   WC1,067 words   PD19 September 2007   ET00:50   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPNEW YORK (AP) - A jubilant Wall Street barreled higher Tuesday after the Federal Reserve cut its benchmark interest rate by a larger-than-expected half percentage point. The Dow Jones industrial average reacted by surging 335 points -- its biggest one-day point jump in nearly five years.   

Although some investors hoped for a rate cut of that magnitude, most were betting on a smaller, quarter-point cut in the federal funds rate. The Fed responded to the spilling of credit market problems into the rest of the economy by saying, "the tightening of credit conditions has the potential to intensify the housing (market) correction and to restrain economic growth more generally."   
   TDThe Fed lowered the benchmark fed funds rate to 4.75 percent after keeping it unchanged for more than a year and not lowering the rate since 2003. It also reduced the discount rate -- what it charges banks borrowing from its discount window -- by a half percentage point to 5.25 percent. On Aug. 17, the central bank lowered the discount rate by a half-point to help keep cash moving in the U.S. banking system.   

The central bank's decision and the wording of its accompanying economic assessment gratified a market that plunged during August amid fears that credit market tightness, spawned by a continuum of mortgage defaults and delinquencies, would send the economy toward recession.   

There was no direct signal in the Fed's statement that it would make further rate cuts. It said "some inflation risks remain" and that it will keep monitoring inflation developments. Still, it did not call inflation its "predominant policy concern" as it did after holding rates steady in early August.   

"What it says to me is you had a major shift in the last couple of months from a Fed that was very concerned about inflation to one that is concerned about the health of the financial markets, the availability of liquidity," said Jerry Webman, chief economist at Oppenheimer Funds Inc.   

The Dow soared 335.97, or 2.51 percent, to 13,739.39. The last time it rose more than 300 points in one session was Oct. 15, 2002, when it gained 378 points, and Tuesday's percent increase was the biggest since April 2, 2003. The blue-chip index is now only about 1.9 percent below its record close of 14,000.41, reached in mid-July.   

The Standard & Poor's 500 index rose 43.13, or 2.92 percent, to 1,519.78. The Nasdaq composite index gained 70.00, or 2.71 percent, to 2,651.66. The S&P and the Nasdaq had their largest point gains since July 29, 2002.   

Small-cap stocks, badly beaten during the market's summer turmoil, shot higher. The Russell 2000 index surged 30.82, or 3.97 percent, to 806.63, the largest percentage gain since July 29, 2002.   

"People had been reducing their exposure to small-caps because they're viewed as a potential riskier asset class," said John Thornton, co-portfolio manager at Stephens Investment Management Group in Houston. Also, credit tightness had stirred investor concern about smaller companies' ability to access cash.   

Shorter-term Treasury issues rose and longer-term bonds fell. The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note finished at 4.47 percent, the same as late Monday.   

Wall Street's reaction to the rate cut was clearly positive; the Dow's gain was the biggest rise immediately following a Fed decision since April 18, 2001, when the central bank surprised the market with an unannounced rate cut. But some analysts said the Fed's response to this summer's market tumult may eventually lead investors to worry more about how bad the current credit climate is, and how vulnerable the U.S. economy might be to it.   

"The market's initial response is 'Thank you, Ben,' " Webman said. "But we also know that when people stop and look at this, people might say, 'Could this house of cards be shaky, more than even we thought it was?'"   

Meanwhile, the dollar tumbled to a new all-time low against the euro after the rate cut, because lower rates make a currency a less attractive investment. Crude oil futures catapulted further into record terrain, rising 94 cents to $81.51 a barrel, and gold prices rallied to a multi-decade high.   

These factors could add up to trouble for the consumer. Though the Fed tends to measure inflation after stripping out volatile food and energy prices, high commodity costs trickle down to average Americans and can dampen their spending power.   

"If they were concerned about inflation before, they should be more concerned now," said Alexander Paris, economist and market analyst for Chicago-based Barrington Research. He called the half-point rate slash "overkill."   

However, the mood was cheery on Wall Street, especially since the central bank's decision capped an already strong day that saw economic and corporate data come in better than expected.   

Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., the nation's fourth-largest investment bank, posted a smaller-than-anticipated 3 percent decline in its third-quarter profit compared with a year ago. Other investment banks are due to report later in the week on the most recent, tumultuous quarter.   

Lehman rose $5.87, or 10 percent, to $64.49. The rest of the financial sector also soared.   

Earlier Tuesday, the Labor Department's August producer price index was more favorable than the market predicted. Wholesale prices fell 1.4 percent last month, the biggest decline in 10 months. Core inflation, which eliminates food and energy prices, rose by a mild 0.2 percent, as expected.   

Advancing issues outnumbered decliners by nearly 10 to 1 on the New York Stock Exchange, where consolidated volume came to 3.71 billion shares, up from 2.47 billion Monday.   

In European trading, which ended before the Fed released its decision, Britain's FTSE 100 rose 1.63 percent, Germany's DAX index rose 1.27 percent and France's CAC-40 rose 2.02 percent.   

In Asia, Japan's Nikkei index fell 2.02 percent and Hong Kong's Hang Seng Index fell 0.09 percent.   

------   

On the Net:   

New York Stock Exchange:   http://www.nyse.com  

Nasdaq Stock Market:   http://www.nasdaq.com  
   RF5   ARTimage video      NSm11 : Equity Markets | e1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagpf1apon | sel----- | catf | 1320   IPDFinancial/Business | Wall Street | D8RO5DA01   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020070918e39i001so  



 HDShares of U.S.-based automakers rise on Fed rate cut      WC202 words   PD18 September 2007   ET22:08   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPNEW YORK (AP) - Both U.S. automakers closed up Tuesday along with the bulk of the overall market, after rallying on the Federal Reserve's announcement that it cut a key interest rate for the first time in four years.   

The Fed said that it was reducing its target for the federal funds rate, the interest that banks charge each other for overnight loans, by a half-point, from 5.25 percent to 4.75 percent. Many economists had been expecting a cut of a quarter-point.   
   TDThe move was designed to boost economic growth by lowering borrowing costs for millions of consumers and businesses.   

Shares of  General Motors Corp., which was downgraded Tuesday by a  Goldman Sachs analyst to "Neutral" from "Buy," closed up 54 cents at $35.77, after trading as low as $34.28 early in the session.   

Also on Tuesday, contract talks between the automaker and the United Auto Workers union continued, with both sides reporting progress but saying that a deal could still be days away.   

Meanwhile,  Ford Motor Co. edged up 14 cents to close at $8.42 after a day of light trading.   
   RF7   COfrdmo : Ford Motor Company | gnmoc : General Motors Company   INi351 : Motor Vehicles | i35101 : Passenger Cars | iaut : Automobiles   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagapf | selapfin | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | APFN Sector Wrap Autos | D8RO31HO0   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020070918e39i0038e  



 HDShares of major railroads, trucking companies and freight forwarders rise after Fed cuts rate      WC365 words   PD18 September 2007   ET22:31   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPNEW YORK (AP) - Shares of major railroads, trucking companies and freight forwarders soared Tuesday, after the Federal Reserve announced it would cut a key interest rate to help relieve recent economic woes.   

The federal funds rate was lowered a half point to 4.75 percent from 5.25 percent.   
   TDAnalysts covering the sector have touted the anticipated rate cut in recent days as a way for freight companies -- struggling with low volumes and poor demand -- to stage a recovery.   

Historically,  Bear Stearns analyst Edward Wolfe said, freight companies have tended to perform in line with the broader markets after the Fed cuts its benchmark rate.   

Wolfe said rails have gained the biggest benefits in the six months following a Fed rate, while trucking companies saw more modest increases.   

But with weak freight volumes over the last year to 18 months, Wolfe said that it's likely freight stocks will actually underperform the broader markets this time, once the initial Fed euphoria bubble bursts.   

A soft peak season for freight and ongoing weak prices could also undercut any dramatic rise among freight stocks, he said.   

Stocks in the sector all gained in trading before the announcement, except  YRC Worldwide and  FedEx Corp., which reports earnings on Thursday.   

Among major railroad operators,  Union Pacific Corp. rose $5.26, or 4.7 percent, to close at $116.26, while shares of  Burlington Northern Santa Fe Corp. jumped $3.72, or 4.7 percent, to $83.16.  Norfolk Southern Corp. gained $2.19, or 4.4 percent to end at $52.20.   

In the trucking sector,  YRC Worldwide Inc. added $1.24, or 4.5 percent, to finish at $29.12, and  Con-way Inc. rose $1.39, or 2.9 percent, to close at $49.24.   

Arkansas Best Corp. added $1.49, or 4.5 percent, to end at $34.82, and  Universal Truckload Services Inc. gained $2.81, or 16.1 percent, to close at $20.32.   

Package delivery company  FedEx Corp. rose 88 cents to $108.99 and  United Parcel Service Inc. climbed $1.45, or 2 percent, to $75.78.   
   RF7   NSm11 : Equity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | c1522 : Share Price Movement/Disruptions | e1202 : Interest Rates | c15 : Performance | c152 : Earnings Projections | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagapf | selapfin | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | APFN Sector Wrap Freight Carriers | D8RO3BV00   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020070918e39i003c9  



 HDDow Jones industrial average ends higher after Fed cut its target for interest rates      WC293 words   PD18 September 2007   ET23:31   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPNEW YORK (AP) - Only one stock ended lower on the Dow Jones industrial average on Tuesday, after the Federal Reserve cut its benchmark interest rate by a larger-than-expected half percentage point.   

The 30-stock index rose 336.05 points, or 2.5 percent, to 13,739.47, after the Fed cut the benchmark fed funds rate to 4.75 percent. The rate had previously stayed the same for more than a year.   
   TDBanks led the advancers on the Dow, with  JPMorgan Chase & Co. rising $2.53, or 5.6 percent, to close at $47.82, and  Citigroup Inc. gaining $2.34, or 5.1 percent, to $49.37. The Fed's move Tuesday offers Wall Street cheaper borrowing and the prospect of more stable credit markets.   

Caterpillar Inc. rose $3.77, or 5.1 percent, to $77.46. Baird analyst Robert McCarthy said the heavy equipment company is on track to meet its goal of $3 billion in sales in China by 2010.   

Alcoa Inc. closed up $1.66, or 4.7 percent, at $36.89. American Express Co. gained $2.60, or 4.5 percent, to $60.80. The company said it plans to sell its international banking unit for nearly $1.1 billion so it can focus on its core business of credit cards.   

The only issue on the Dow to close lower was  Boeing Co. The stock lost 17 cents to $98.47. Banc of America lowered its price target on the shares, seeing limited upside on them until the company makes more progress on its 787 jet, most notably on the first flight, now scheduled for mid-November to mid-December.   
   RF5   COalmam : ALCOA Inc | catra : Caterpillar Inc   INi22 : Primary Metals | i224 : Non-ferrous Metals | i2245 : Aluminum | i32 : Machinery/Industrial Goods | i3254 : Construction Machinery | imet : Metals/Mining   NSm11 : Equity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | e1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagapf | selapfin | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | APFN DJIA Laggards | D8RO487G1   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020070918e39i003jq  



 HDTreasurys fall again as market reviews beefy Fed rate cut and Wall Street surge continues      BYBy LESLIE WINES      CRAP Business Writer   WC898 words   PD19 September 2007   ET22:24   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPNEW YORK (AP) - Treasurys closed sharply lower Wednesday as Wall Street stretched its interest rate-inspired rally to a second session.   

The Federal Reserve's decision Tuesday to slash both the federal funds rate and the discount rate by a half percentage point to 4.75 percent ignited a massive rally in U.S. stocks and a move away from lower-risk government bonds. That scenario remained in full force on Wednesday.   
   TDAlthough both the stock and bond markets had wished for the rate reduction, the action had both positive and negative implications for Treasurys. The news certainly showed the central bank's willingness to respond to troubled credit markets.   

But making money easier to get tends to feed inflation, which is anathema to the bond market. Many analysts had expected the Fed to cut rates by just a quarter percentage point, which likely would have elicited a more positive response in the bond market.   

As Kevin Giddis, managing director of fixed income at Morgan Keegan, put it, "The bond market appears to be sending the Fed a message: 'Thanks for nothing.'"   

The benchmark 10-year Treasury note closed down 14/32 at 101 24/32 with a yield of 4.52 percent, up from 4.47 percent at Tuesday's close.   

The 30-year long bond finished 1 7/32 lower at 102 23/32 with a yield of 4.82 percent, up from 4.75 percent at Tuesday's close.   

The 2-year note fell 1/32 to 100 6/32 with a 3.99 percent yield, up from 3.98 percent Tuesday.   

The yield on 3-month Treasury bills ended at 3.82 percent, down from 3.94 percent on Thursday, as the discount rate fell 0.13 percentage point to 3.81 percent.   

A type of trading strategy known as a "curve steepener" has been in play since the rate cuts were announced Tuesday afternoon. This causes investors to put heavy selling pressure on the 30-year long bond and other longer-dated maturities and less pressure on shorter-term assets such as the 2-year note.   

These market plays lengthen the difference on the yields of longer- and shorter-term maturities and are a signal that fixed-income market investors expect both higher inflation and further rate cuts. According to Action Economics, price action in the futures market projects a fed funds rate of 4.35 percent in January, 2008 and of 4.14 percent in April, 2008.   

On the positive side, the heavy sales of long-term bonds drive up their yields, giving investors a reason to loan money long-term. Prices and yields move in opposite directions.   

The latest consumer price and housing starts reports did not have much impact on trade and were broadly in line with expectations.   

The Commerce Department's housing starts report showed that residential real estate likely will continue to be a drag on the economy, as construction of new homes slipped to their slowest pace in 12 years last month. Housing starts dropped 2.6 percent to a seasonally adjusted 1.331 million units.   

Consumer prices fell 0.1 percent last month, the first drop in 10 months, according to the Labor Department. That figure would imply that inflation is benign, which is good news for the bond market.   

The core rate, which strips out food and energy costs, rose 0.2 percent. Core inflation, which the Fed closely monitors, rose at an annual rate of 2.3 percent from January through August, down from an increase of 2.6 percent for all of 2006.   

On Wednesday, following the Fed rate cut, overnight dollar London interbank rates were fixed at 4.94 percent, down from 5.33 percent the day before, according to the British Bankers Association.   

Angela Knight, the association's chief executive, said the reduction indicates "the UK market may now be expecting the Bank of England to follow the Fed in cutting rates."   

Many commercial loans are tied to LIBOR, the rate at which banks borrow from each other, and the move should lighten borrowing costs for some companies.   

The Fed's move also appeared to be helping corporate borrowers by stabilizing the recently rocky commercial paper market.   

"Commercial paper markets appear to be functioning well, with major issuers selling paper below the fed funds rate," said Tony Crescenzi, senior fixed-income strategist at Miller Tabak.   

The commercial paper market, normally highly liquid, began receiving intense resistance last month as worries about exposure to below-prime mortgages and other shaky assets took their toll on many corporate credit markets.   

Commercial paper usually provides an easy way for companies to get short-term operating capital while avoiding formalities such as registering bond sales with the government.   

And it appears that the rates cuts also are increasing momentum in the long-term corporate bond market. According to Action Economics,  General Electric Corp. and  J.P. Morgan now plan to offer 10-year notes this week while  Lehman Brothers will come to market with a two-stage offering that includes both 7-year notes and 20-year bonds.   

The long-term corporate market also was a victim of this summer's credit market slump, but began showing signs of revival earlier this month.   
   RF5   NSmcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mntdbt : National Government Debt/Bond Markets | e1202 : Interest Rates | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagdstab | sel9---- | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | Bonds | D8ROOC102   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020070919e39j001eb  



 HDFinancial, consumer discretionary, tech firms likely to get initial boost from lower rate      BYBy STEPHEN BERNARD      CRAP Business Writer   WC708 words   PD17 September 2007   ET21:44   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPNEW YORK (AP) - Betting on banks and movies theaters could be a good move if the Federal Reserve lowers a key interest rate at Tuesday's meeting.   

Historically, consumer discretionary, or companies that provide nonessential services and products, and financial services firms are among the best performing sectors in the stock market when the central bank begins easing monetary policy.   
   TDThe Fed's rate-setting committee is widely expected to cut the federal funds rate from its current 5.25 percent. The rate, which is what banks charge other banks to borrow money, has been held steady since June 2006. The debate in the market is whether the cut will be a quarter point or a half point.   

The consumer discretionary sector, which includes retail, entertainment and homebuilding companies, benefits because lower rates on credit cards and other loans theoretically means consumers feel less pressure on their finances, said Brian Belski, chief U.S. sector strategist at  Merrill Lynch & Co. The prime rate, which is used to determine interest rates on many consumer loans, including credit cards, is traditionally 3 percentage points higher than the fed funds rate.   

Because consumers are likely to spend more money when rates decline and the economy improves, investors turn to consumer discretionary companies in anticipation of greater earnings, said  Standard & Poor's chief investment strategist Sam Stovall.   

Over the last 10 periods where the Fed started cutting rates, the Standard & Poor's 500 index has averaged a gain of 10 percent in the six months after the initial cut, according to Stovall. Consumer discretionary stocks have increased, on average, 18 percent during that same period, he said.   

"In general, consumers like to spend money," said Wayne Titche, chief investment officer at Grand Rapids, Mich.-based Ambs Investment Counsel, which manages $650 million in assets.   

Titche added that this time around consumers are more likely to spend on smaller-ticket items like personal electronic devices if rates are cut because of the size of the investment and other current market factors.   

Companies like computer hardware maker  Seagate Technology and freight services provider  FedEx Corp. are poised to benefit from a rate cut, Titche said. With consumers purchasing more electronics like computers and companies needing to ship additional products to meet consumer demand, both companies should benefit from lower interest rates, he said.   

Financial stocks have matched the S&P 500's average gain of 10 percent in the six months following the start of a rate-cutting cycle.   

When interest rates decline, a financial services firm is able to increase the difference between how much it pays to borrow money and how much it charges to lend the money, therefore earning more on that channel of business, said  Merrill Lynch's Belski. When the margin between the rate firms pay to borrow and the rate they collect on loans is narrow, such as in the current market, financial firms have to rely more on fees and other charges to turn a profit.   

Flat and declining home prices and rising mortgage delinquencies in recent months could hinder the traditional boost financial firms receive, Titche cautioned. Banks are likely to continue to see mounting losses from defaulted loans in the coming months, which could offset any boost the sector would receive from declining interest rates, he said.   

Rate cuts don't always guarantee a rally. The Fed cut rates 13 times, from 6.5 percent to 1 percent, between January 2001 and June 2003. In the six months after the first cut on Jan. 3, 2001, the S&P 500 actually fell 7.3 percent, Stovall said, noting that was an aberration from the norm.   

High-priced technology stocks, which at the time accounted for a third of the S&P 500, came crashing down in 2001, overshadowing any positive impact from the rate cuts, Stovall said. But even as the overall market declined, the consumer discretionary sector rose 9.6 percent in that six-month period -- the best performance for any sector. The financial sector outperformed the S&P 500 as well, declining only 3.3 percent.   
   RF7   COmerly : Merrill Lynch & Co Inc   INi814 : Banking | i831 : Financial Investments | i83101 : Investment Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | iinv : Investing/Securities   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagapf | selapfin | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | APFN Rate Cut Winners | D8RNDJA80   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020070917e39h002d6  



 HDStocks soar after Fed's bigger-than-expected half-point cut in interest rates      BYBy MADLEN READ      CRAP Business Writer   WC1,072 words   PD18 September 2007   ET23:49   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPNEW YORK (AP) - A jubilant Wall Street barreled higher Tuesday after the Federal Reserve cut its benchmark interest rate by a larger-than-expected half percentage point. The Dow Jones industrial average reacted by surging 335 points -- its biggest one-day point jump in nearly five years.   

Although some investors hoped for a rate cut of that magnitude, most were betting on a smaller, quarter-point cut in the federal funds rate. The Fed responded to the spilling of credit market problems into the rest of the economy by saying, "the tightening of credit conditions has the potential to intensify the housing (market) correction and to restrain economic growth more generally."   
   TDThe Fed lowered the benchmark fed funds rate to 4.75 percent after keeping it unchanged for more than a year and not lowering the rate since 2003. It also reduced the discount rate -- what it charges banks borrowing from its discount window -- by a half percentage point to 5.25 percent. On Aug. 17, the central bank lowered the discount rate by a half-point to help keep cash moving in the U.S. banking system.   

The central bank's decision and the wording of its accompanying economic assessment gratified a market that plunged during August amid fears that credit market tightness, spawned by a continuum of mortgage defaults and delinquencies, would send the economy toward recession.   

There was no direct signal in the Fed's statement that it would make further rate cuts. It said "some inflation risks remain" and that it will keep monitoring inflation developments. Still, it did not call inflation its "predominant policy concern" as it did after holding rates steady in early August.   

"What it says to me is you had a major shift in the last couple of months from a Fed that was very concerned about inflation to one that is concerned about the health of the financial markets, the availability of liquidity," said Jerry Webman, chief economist at Oppenheimer Funds Inc.   

The Dow soared 335.97, or 2.51 percent, to 13,739.39. The last time it rose more than 300 points in one session was Oct. 15, 2002, when it gained 378 points, and Tuesday's percent increase was the biggest since April 2, 2003. The blue-chip index is now only about 1.9 percent below its record close of 14,000.41, reached in mid-July.   

The Standard & Poor's 500 index rose 43.13, or 2.92 percent, to 1,519.78. The Nasdaq composite index gained 70.00, or 2.71 percent, to 2,651.66. The S&P and the Nasdaq had their largest point gains since July 29, 2002.   

Small-cap stocks, badly beaten during the market's summer turmoil, shot higher. The Russell 2000 index surged 30.82, or 3.97 percent, to 806.63, the largest percentage gain since July 29, 2002.   

"People had been reducing their exposure to small-caps because they're viewed as a potential riskier asset class," said John Thornton, co-portfolio manager at Stephens Investment Management Group in Houston. Also, credit tightness had stirred investor concern about smaller companies' ability to access cash.   

Shorter-term Treasury issues rose and longer-term bonds fell. The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note finished at 4.47 percent, the same as late Monday.   

Wall Street's reaction to the rate cut was clearly positive; the Dow's gain was the biggest rise immediately following a Fed decision since April 18, 2001, when the central bank surprised the market with an unannounced rate cut. But some analysts said the Fed's response to this summer's market tumult may eventually lead investors to worry more about how bad the current credit climate is, and how vulnerable the U.S. economy might be to it.   

"The market's initial response is 'Thank you, Ben,' " Webman said. "But we also know that when people stop and look at this, people might say, 'Could this house of cards be shaky, more than even we thought it was?'"   

Meanwhile, the dollar tumbled to a new all-time low against the euro after the rate cut, because lower rates make a currency a less attractive investment. Crude oil futures catapulted further into record terrain, rising 94 cents to $81.51 a barrel, and gold prices rallied to a multi-decade high.   

These factors could add up to trouble for the consumer. Though the Fed tends to measure inflation after stripping out volatile food and energy prices, high commodity costs trickle down to average Americans and can dampen their spending power.   

"If they were concerned about inflation before, they should be more concerned now," said Alexander Paris, economist and market analyst for Chicago-based Barrington Research. He called the half-point rate slash "overkill."   

However, the mood was cheery on Wall Street, especially since the central bank's decision capped an already strong day that saw economic and corporate data come in better than expected.   

Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., the nation's fourth-largest investment bank, posted a smaller-than-anticipated 3 percent decline in its third-quarter profit compared with a year ago. Other investment banks are due to report later in the week on the most recent, tumultuous quarter.   

Lehman rose $5.87, or 10 percent, to $64.49. The rest of the financial sector also soared.   

Earlier Tuesday, the Labor Department's August producer price index was more favorable than the market predicted. Wholesale prices fell 1.4 percent last month, the biggest decline in 10 months. Core inflation, which eliminates food and energy prices, rose by a mild 0.2 percent, as expected.   

Advancing issues outnumbered decliners by nearly 10 to 1 on the New York Stock Exchange, where consolidated volume came to 3.71 billion shares, up from 2.47 billion Monday.   

In European trading, which ended before the Fed released its decision, Britain's FTSE 100 rose 1.63 percent, Germany's DAX index rose 1.27 percent and France's CAC-40 rose 2.02 percent.   

In Asia, Japan's Nikkei index fell 2.02 percent and Hong Kong's Hang Seng Index fell 0.09 percent.   

------   

On the Net:   

New York Stock Exchange:   http://www.nyse.com  

Nasdaq Stock Market:   http://www.nasdaq.com  
   RF5   NSm11 : Equity Markets | e1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagapf | selapfin | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | APFN Wall Street | D8RO4GGG2   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020070918e39i0023r  



 HDRecent developments involving short-term interest rates      BYBy The Associated Press      WC250 words   PD18 September 2007   ET17:15   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPA snapshot of some major turning points for a key short-term interest rate controlled by the Federal Reserve:   

Last Rate Cut: The Fed last sliced rates in late June 2003. It cut its key rate to 1 percent, the lowest level since the summer of 1958. It was the last in a long string of rate cuts that began in early 2001 to cushion the economy from the bursting of the stock market bubble and eventually the 2001 recession, the terror attacks of that year and a wave of accounting scandals that rocked Wall Street.   
   TDLast Rate Boost: The last time the Fed bumped up its key rate was in late June 2006. That marked the 17th straight increase and pushed the rate up to 5.25 percent, the highest since March 2001. That rate campaign had begun two years earlier to gradually move rates from unusually low levels to more normal ones. It also was aimed at reducing the threat that inflation might spread as the economy got on stronger footing.   

A Period of Rate Stability: For more than a year, the Fed has left its key rate at 5.25 percent. It did not move the rate at its last meeting, on Aug. 7, despite financial turbulence, credit problems and a deepening housing slump. The Fed's decision in early August 2006 to stop boosting rates ended the longest string of Fed increases on record.   
   RF7   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPCtagpf0wcat | sel----- | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | NA FIN US Fed Interest Rates Box | D8RNUO883   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020070918e39i002gl  



 HDOil, Gold Prices Jump After Fed Rate Cut      BYBy LAUREN VILLAGRAN      CRAP Business Writer   WC900 words   PD18 September 2007   ET23:02   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPNEW YORK (AP) - Oil prices jumped to an all-time high and precious metals rallied Tuesday after the Federal Reserve cut its benchmark interest rate by a half percentage point.   

The central bank trimmed the federal funds rate to 4.75 percent from 5.25 percent on Tuesday, effectively lowering borrowing costs for investors. Lower interest rates can rouse sluggish economic activity and raise demand for raw materials; oil, gold and copper prices climbed in the wake of the decision.   
   TDThe U.S. dollar, undermined by the rate cut, sank to a record low against the euro, adding to the appeal of commodities to foreign buyers.   

Light, sweet crude for October delivery rose 94 cents to settle at $81.51 on the New York Mercantile Exchange, after popping to a peak $81.90 a barrel after the Fed's midafternoon decision. Crude has set record highs for five straight sessions.   

Tim Evans, energy analyst with  Citigroup Global Markets, called the Fed's rate cut "good news and bad news."   

"The good news is that it might pump a little extra demand into the economy generally and into the oil market in particular," Evans said. "The bad news is that the Fed sees the economy as being so fragile at the moment that it needs this. In a sense, it confirms the weak demand picture that we already have evidence of in the crude oil market."   

Oil prices also rose ahead of Wednesday's report on petroleum inventories, which analysts expect to show the 10th weekly decline in crude stockpiles in 11 weeks. Analysts polled by Dow Jones Newswires expect U.S. oil inventories to fall by 1.5 million barrels and project a 1.3-million barrel decline in gasoline supplies. Although stockpiles have declined, Evans pointed out that average market demand over the past four weeks is roughly flat with year-ago levels.   

Gasoline futures rose 1.61 cents to settle at $2.0603 a gallon.   

Meanwhile, gold and silver prices jumped following the Fed decision as investors flocked to precious metals -- a traditional hedge against inflation; lower rates do raise fears that the economy might grow too fast and carry prices of goods and services higher. In aftermarket electronic trading, gold jumped $10.40 to $734.20 an ounce, while silver gained 26 cents to $13.16 an ounce.   

The U.S. dollar has been in a long-term downward spiral against major world currencies, and Tuesday's Fed decision increased the pressure.   

December gold settled down 10 cents at $723.70 an ounce on the Nymex before the Fed's announcement. December silver added 2.5 cents to close at $12.925 an ounce.   

Investors had been hankering for a rate cut ever since rising defaults on subprime mortgages led to tighter credit conditions and stirred more volatility in the stock market. Commodities suffered a broad liquidation in August as investors cashed out to cover losses elsewhere, but most markets have since recovered to tally new highs.   

The carry-over of problems in the credit market has clearly caused real concern, said Brian O'Hearne,  Swiss Re managing director of environmental and commodity markets. "The Fed sent a strong message about the collateral effects" of credit market turmoil on the broader economy.   

Copper prices got a boost from the Fed's move, with the December contract rising to $3.5045 a pound in after-hours trading on the Nymex after finishing regular trading at $3.448 a pound, up 2.8 cents.   

Industrial metals finished higher on the London Metal Exchange, which was closed by the time the Fed made its decision to cut interest rates. Nickel prices gained 6 percent, while zinc added 2 percent. Copper closed 1 percent higher in London.   

Also supporting copper was news that union workers at  Southern Copper Corp. mining operations in Peru will convene Wednesday and Thursday to vote on a possible strike after talks with the company broke down on Monday, Dow Jones Newswires reported.   

Open auction trading at the Chicago Board of Trade had also ended by the time the Fed released its decision. Trading in agriculture futures has in any case been dominated by supply concerns, particularly in the wheat market.   

Wheat prices rose briefly at the open on concerns about the size of Australia's crop, before giving back recent gains. Australia on Tuesday slashed its harvest estimate by nearly a third due to dry weather. The Australian Bureau of Agricultural and Resource Economics pegged production at 15.5 million metric tons, down by 7 million metric tons, or 31 percent, from its previous forecast. Analysts had expected production to range from 18 million to 20 million metric tons.   

Australia's wheat crop suffered a debilitating drought last year, and the dryness has lingered. The wheat market has been especially sensitive to the health of crops in the Southern Hemisphere after crops in the U.S., Europe and elsewhere were damaged by bad weather. U.S. wheat stocks are projected to shrink to a 33-year low as countries short on wheat shop the U.S. market.   

December wheat slipped 6 cents to close at $8.69 a bushel. December corn ended flat at $3.5225 a bushel, while November soybeans added a penny to finish at $9.695 a bushel.   
   RF5   NSm14 : Commodity Markets | m15 : Derivative Securities | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mcroil : Crude Oil Markets | e1202 : Interest Rates | mpcsmt : Precious Metals Markets | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m142 : Metals Markets | m143 : Energy Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagpf1apon | sel----- | catf | 1310   IPDFinancial/Business | Commodities Review | D8RO3QI82   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020070918e39i002hp  



 HDShares of U.S.-based automakers rise on Fed rate cut      WC170 words   PD18 September 2007   ET20:35   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPNEW YORK (AP) - Shares of U.S. automakers rose Tuesday, along with the broader market, after the Federal Reserve cut a key interest rate for the first time in four years.   

The Fed said that it was reducing its target for the federal funds rate, the interest that banks charge each other, from 5.25 percent to 4.75 percent. The half-point reduction was double the quarter-point move that many economists had been expecting.   
   TDThe move was designed to boost economic growth by lowering borrowing costs for millions of consumers and businesses.   

Last month's decline in jobs and weakening retail sales coupled with a weakening housing sector, tightened credit markets and stock market volatility all gave investors hope that the Fed would make the move.   

Here how the automakers traded Tuesday afternoon shortly after the Fed move:   

General Motors Corp. rose 32 cents to $35.55.   

Ford Motor Co. gained 10 cents to $8.38.   
   RF7   COfrdmo : Ford Motor Company | gnmoc : General Motors Company   INi351 : Motor Vehicles | i35101 : Passenger Cars | iaut : Automobiles   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagapf | selapfin | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | APFN Sector Glance Autos | D8RO1LQ81   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020070918e39i002x7  



 HDAuto suppliers get a boost from Fed announcement      WC200 words   PD18 September 2007   ET20:46   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPNEW YORK (AP) - Shares of the auto suppliers got a boost Tuesday, along with the broader market, after the Federal Reserve cut a key interest rate for the first time in four years.   

The Fed said that it was reducing its target for the federal funds rate, the interest that banks charge each other for overnight loans, from 5.25 percent to 4.75 percent. The one-half percentage-point reduction was double the quarter-point move that many economists had been expecting.   
   TDThe move was designed to boost economic growth by lowering borrowing costs for millions of consumers and businesses.   

--------   

Here's how the auto suppliers were trading after the announcement:   

ArvinMeritor Inc. was flat at $16.29.   

American Axle & Manufacturing Holdings Inc. rose 14 cents to $22.04.   

BorgWarner Inc. rose $1.56 to $86.06.   

Johnson Controls Inc. rose $4.52 to $114.80.   

Lear Corp. rose $1.33 to $30.85.   

Magna International Inc. rose 90 cents to $91.35.   

Tenneco Inc. rose 83 cents to $30.30..   

TRW Automotive Holdings Inc. rose $1.10 to $30.05.   

Visteon Corp. rose 41 cents to $5.10.   
   RF7   COamxle : American Axle & Manufacturing Inc | bwaut : BorgWarner Inc. | joncon : Johnson Controls, Inc. | lseatc : Lear Corporation | magin : Magna International Inc | mrtrau : Meritor Inc | blgrou : The Blackstone Group LP   INi3302 : Computers/Electronics | i3434 : Automobile Electronics | i353 : Motor Vehicle Parts | iaut : Automobiles | ielec : Electronics   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagapf | selapfin | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | APFN Sector Glance Auto Suppliers | D8RO1QQ00   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020070918e39i002yb  



 HDInvestors Hunt for Effects of Rate Cut      BYBy TIM PARADIS      CRAP Business Writer   WC827 words   PD19 September 2007   ET17:36   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPNEW YORK (AP) - A big rate cut by the Federal Reserve and the stock market's huge rally in response to that move has many on Wall Street wondering: Now what?   

The Fed's decision Tuesday to slash its benchmark federal funds rate by a larger-than-expected half percentage point sent stocks soaring and lifted the Dow Jones industrials nearly 336 points. It also raised questions about the Fed's next step and how markets might fare in the coming months.   
   TD"I think it's probably going to help stabilize things. It seems to me that the Fed had enough room on the inflation front to really get out ahead on this," said Bruce McCain, head of strategy for Key Private Bank's investment management unit.   

Before the Fed's decision and even with recent moves to cut the rate it charges to loan directly to banks -- known as the discount rate -- Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke left some investors asking whether the central bank would cut rates at all in the face of concerns about inflation.   

With that question answered, investors rushed in and put stocks a good deal above their recent lows in August. The Dow's jump -- its biggest one-day point gain in almost five years -- left the blue chip index only about 1.9 percent below its record close of 14,000.41 reached in mid-July.   

Still, some on Wall Street will likely question whether the Fed's rate cut signals a deeper unease at the bank about the effect of tightness in the credit markets and widespread weakness in the housing sector. And investors will be left trying to determine whether a portion of Tuesday's rally owed to short covering. Investors who sell shares short bet the stock price will fall, and when stocks move higher, so-called short sellers are forced to move in and buy to cover their losses. That influx of buyers can exacerbate market climbs.   

"The market's initial response is 'Thank you, Ben,'" said Jerry Webman, chief economist at Oppenheimer Funds Inc. "But we also know that when people stop and look at this, people might say, 'Could this house of cards be shaky, more than even we thought it was?'"   

Still, there was clearly relief that that the Fed seemed to riding in to rescue the credit markets and shore up investor sentiment. Many investors had been pulling for a rate cut to help reduce the chance of the economy sliding into recession.   

"They are concerned about the deteriorating real estate market," McCain said of the Fed. "That is going to continue to weigh on the consumer. I think they felt by being pre-emptive that they could give a lift to confidence."   

In the economic assessment accompanying its decision, the Fed said it remains concerned about the credit market and its effect on housing, It noted in its statement, "The tightening of credit conditions has the potential to intensify the housing (market) correction and to restrain economic growth more generally."   

With those concerns in mind, the Fed cut the benchmark fed funds rate to 4.75 percent -- the first reduction in four years. The central bank had kept rates unchanged for more than a year. The Fed also again cut the less-visible discount rate. Fed policymakers lowered the discount rate by half a point in mid-August in their bid to keep cash flowing into the U.S. banking system and dispel perceptions that turning to the central bank for a loan in such times was a sign of a bank's precarious position.   

But while investors will likely celebrate overall cheaper access to liquidity and the notion that dealmaking in an uncertain economy could become less onerous, some of the troubles that have dogged investors can't be waved away by the Fed's decision.   

Consumers will likely be helped, for example, by seeing lower interest rates on debt such as credit cards, but weakness in the housing sector will likely remain. While the boost to investor confidence is often immediate, Fed interest rate moves often take six months or more to fully work themselves into the economy.   

"I think a lot of people are assuming that with a rate cut we go back to the environment you would have coming out of a recession. This was an economy that wasn't weak but it clearly was a mature economy. You don't have the pent-up demand that you have after a recession."   

And as the Fed didn't offer any overt signals about whether it expected to make further cuts, investors will likely continue to pay close attention to economic data on inflation, one of the Fed's main priorities.   

"In part they're saying the housing problems are going to take the pressure off inflation for the next few months," McCain said.   
   RF7   ARTimage      NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | m11 : Equity Markets | ecat : Economic News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagpf1apon | sel----- | catf | 1310   IPDFinancial/Business | Market Interest Rates | D8ROK4T80   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020070919e39j000fr  



 HDTreasurys end lower one day ahead of key monetary decision      BYBy LESLIE WINES      CRAP Business Writer   WC606 words   PD17 September 2007   ET21:39   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2007.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPNEW YORK (AP) - Treasurys closed with light losses Monday after anxious investors refrained from major moves while they waited to see what action the Federal Reserve will take on interest rates.   

There was little reaction to the New York Fed's weak Empire State survey for September, which showed a drop to 14.7 from 25.1. While the survey showed a slower pace of growth, all readings over zero indicate expansion. This report, like many other recent data releases, shows some economic deterioration, but the degree of decline is uncertain.   
   TDA summer spent monitoring the spread of weakness in the below prime mortgage market has left investors anxious about the condition of the overall economy. This in turn has led to heightened concerns about whether the Fed will drop rates at its Tuesday meeting.   

Although many analysts have concluded an interest rate decline is a given, there is disagreement over whether the Fed is more likely to reduce rates by a quarter percentage point or a half percentage point.   

In addition, Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke and a lineup of other Fed speakers last week all focused on the strengths of the economy and avoided promising a rate decrease.   

And some economists have warned that cheaper money may not be the proper solution to problems in the mortgage and corporate credit markets. Some are even predicing lower rates will lead to an increase in inflation. The fixed-income abhors inflation because it eats into the value of assets.   

The benchmark 10-year Treasury note ended 4/32 lower at 102 7/32 with a yield of 4.47 percent, not far from its close at 4.48 percent on Friday.   

The 2-year note finished 1/32 lower at 99-28/32 with a yield of 4.06 percent, up a shade from its Friday close at 4.05 percent.   

The 30-year long bond threw off morning losses to close up 4/32 at 104 16/32 with a yield of 4.71 percent, down from 4.81 percent at Friday's close.   

The yield on 3-month Treasury bills ended at 3.94 percent, down a touch from 3.95 percent on Thursday, as the discount rate rose 0.07 percentage point to 3.97 percent.   

Monday's price losses come in the context of a number of recent rallies driven by safe-haven worries linked to weakness in other markets.   

"The Treasury market is trading a bit lower, but does it really market whether the market is up or down the day before what is likely the most anticipated Fed meeting of the year?" asked Kevin Giddis, managing director of fixed income at Morgan Keegan.   

A new prediction by former Fed leader Alan Greenspan that the embattled housing market will deteriorate even further, with heavier losses for housing prices, contributed to uneasiness among investors.   

Worries about the broader credit markets were backlit on Monday by news that customers of UK mortgage lender  Northern Rock have removed $4 billion from the bank.   

Ian Shepherdson, chief U.S. economist at High Frequency Economics, said the Fed has a duty to cut to steady the financial markets.   

"In our view, much of the relative stability in stocks over the past three weeks has been engendered by the firm belief the Fed will ease," Sherpherdson wrote in a research note. "If it doesn't the subsequent headlong scramble to get out of risk assets will make what has happened so far seem like nothing more than a little local disturbance."   
   RF5   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagdstab | sel9---- | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | Bonds | D8RNDGSG1   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020070917e39h001ez  
 Page 1 of 1      2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.


 

 Page 1      2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.

