 


 HD'Helicopter Ben' confronts the challenge of a lifetime   BYBy Martin Wolf      WC1,156 words   PD16 December 2008   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved   
   LPCentral banks may soon resort to their most powerful weapons against deflation: the printing press and the "helicopter drop" of money. It is a time for which Ben Bernanke, chairman of the Federal Reserve, has long prepared. Will this weaponry work? Unquestionably, yes: used ruthlessly, it will eliminate deflation. But returning to normality thereafter will prove far more elusive.

Mr Bernanke delivered a celebrated speech on the topic in November 2002, when still a governor.* He spoke quite soon after the US stock market bubble burst in 2000. Policymakers then feared the US might soon follow Japan into deflation - sustained declines in the general price level.
   TDYet Mr Bernanke then insisted "that the chance of significant deflation in the US in the foreseeable future is extremely small". He pointed to "the strength of our financial system: despite the adverse shocks of the past year, our banking system remains healthy and well-regulated, and firm and household balance sheets are for the most part in good shape". The words "pride" and "fall" come to mind. Six years and a housing-cum- credit bubble later, chairman Bernanke must be sadder and wiser.

Mr Bernanke's view was also that "the best way to get out of trouble is not to get into it in the first place". The fear that reversing deflationary expectations would prove hard explains why the Fed has cut its official interest rate so quickly since the crisis broke in August 2007.

Is deflation a realistic likelihood? Core measures of inflation strongly suggest not. But one measure of expected inflation - the gap between yields on conventional and index-linked Treasuries - has collapsed to 14 basis points. Moreover, yields on 10-year US Treasury bonds are already where Japan's were in 1996, six years after the latter's crisis began. (See the charts, which start one year before respective asset price peaks.)

Why then should central banks fear deflation? First, deflation makes it impossible for conventional monetary policy to deliver negative real interest rates. The faster the deflation, the higher real interest rates will be. Second, as explained by the great American economist Irving Fisher in the 1930s, "debt deflation" - the rising real value of debt as prices fall - then becomes a lethal threat. In the US, whose private sector gross debt soared from 118 per cent of gross domestic product in 1978 to 290 per cent in 2008, debt deflation could trigger a downward spiral of mass insolvency, falling demand and further deflation.

Already, the Fed has adopted a host of unconventional actions to keep the economy afloat. By December 10 the Federal Reserve's balance sheet had reached $2,245bn (€1,663bn, £1,490bn), a jump of $124bn over a week and $1,378bn over a year. It held a wide range of government and private paper, including $476bn in Treasury securities, $448bn in "term auction credit", $312bn in commercial paper and $233bn in "other loans", which includes $57bn of credit to AIG alone. If it keeps going, the Fed may become the largest bank in the world.

Does it face any constraint? Not really. As Robert Mugabe has shown, anybody can run a printing press successfully. Once the interest rate hits zero, the Fed can perform much further easing. Indeed, it can create money without limit. Imagine what would happen if an alchemist could transform lead into gold, at no cost. Gold would not be worth much. Central banks can create infinite quantities of money, at no cost. So they can reduce its value to nothing without difficulty. Curing deflation is child's play in a "fiat money" - a man-made money - system.

So what might central banks do? They might lower longer-term interest rates by buying as many long-term government bonds as they wish or by promising to keep short rates low for a lengthy period. They might lend directly to the private sector. Indeed, they might buy any private asset, at any price and in any quantity they choose. They might also buy foreign currency assets. And they might finance the government on any scale they think necessary.

Alternatively, the fiscal authorities can run a deficit of any size they wish and then finance it by issuing short-term paper that the central bank would have to buy, to keep interest rates down. At the zero-rate boundary, fiscal and monetary policies become one. The central bank's sole right to make monetary policy is gone. But the reverse is also true: the central bank can send money to every citizen. This is the helicopter drop proposed by the late Milton Friedman and recently discussed by Eric Lonergan on the FT's economists' forum.

At this point, one might wonder why Japan has struggled with deflation for so long. I have little idea. But the explanation seems to be that the Bank of Japan did not wish to take such drastic measures and the Ministry of Finance did not dare to force the point. Such self-restraint will not deter the US authorities.

So will the Federal Reserve drown the world in dollars, whereupon we will be able to wake from the nightmare? As Willem Buiter shows in a recent blog, "Confessions of a Crass Keynesian", the answer is No.

Once inflation returns, the central bank will need to sell assets into the market, to mop up the excess money it has created in fighting deflation. Similarly, the government must reduce its deficit to a size it can finance in the market. Otherwise, deflationary expectations may swiftly turn into expectations of above-target inflation. This may also happen if the debt sold in efforts to sterilise the monetary overhang is deemed beyond the government's ability to service.

Countries without a credible currency may reach this point early. As soon as a central bank hints at "quantitative easing", flight from the currency may ensue. This is particularly likely when countries remain burdened under a huge overhang of domestic and foreign debt. Creditors know that a burst of inflation would solve many problems in the US and the UK. The US may manage the danger of resurgent inflationary expectations. The UK is likely to find it more difficult. Avoiding deflation is easy; achieving stability thereafter will be far harder.

Ironically, we are where we are partly because the Fed was so terrified of deflation six years ago. Now, a credit bubble later, Mr Bernanke has to cope with what he then feared, largely because of the Fed's heroic attempts at prevention. Similar dangers now arise with the drastic measures that look ever more likely. This time, I suspect, the result will ultimately not be deflation but unexpectedly high inflation, though probably many years hence.

*Deflation: Making Sure 'It' Doesn't Happen Here, November 21 2002, www.federalreserve.gov

martin.wolf@ft.com
   RF20081216_23557_492.xml   INi81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | i814 : Banking   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REjap : Japan | usa : United States | asiaz : Asia | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America   IPCEN   IPDEconomic News   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTCOM00020081216e4cg004bo  



 HDLittle cheer for US from Japanese experiment   BYBy Mure Dickie      WC622 words   PD17 December 2008   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved   
   LPThe good news for the US Federal Reserve as it starts trying to manage monetary policy with interest rates stuck near 0 per cent is that it is not the first big economy to tackle such a task.

The bad news is that the results of the pioneering experiment in "quantitative easing" as an alternative to interest rate manipulation, which was conducted by Japan from 2001 to 2006, remain deeply ambiguous. The Bank of Japan is far from a cheerleader for the policy, under which it poured stupendous sums of money into the banking system and committed to holding interest rates down to await a solid revival of consumer inflation.
   TDBy making the levels of reserves held by commercial banks the target of monetary policy rather than the cost of overnight funds, it was hoped that quantitative easing would succeed, where previous interest rate cuts had failed, and pull Japan out of a deflationary trough.

Masaaki Shirakawa, BoJ governor, makes only the most modest claims for quantitative easing's effectiveness.

"The massive increase in reserves was effective in maintaining financial system stability when the financial system was in a delicate and unstable situation but was not that effective in boosting demand," Mr Shirakawa told the Financial Times in a recent interview.

He said the commitment to maintain very low interest rates was "somewhat effective in boosting demand" - but only at the stage when the economy had already "started to recover".

A central problem was that while it was relatively easy to feed commercial banks far more funds than they needed, the BoJ was unable to make them pass the surplus on into the wider economy.

While quantitative easing may have shored up Japan's weaker banks at a time when they needed to clean their balance sheets of lingering debt detritus from the bursting of the 1980s asset bubble, later researchers found little evidence of any boost to overall lending.

Keeping short-term rates at, or close to, zero also strains the functioning of capital markets - a point that Mr Shirakawa has made in the face of growing pressure for the BoJ to cut its meagre 0.3 per cent policy rate to help an economy once more in recession. John Richards, head of Asia Pacific research at Royal Bank of Scotland, says that quantitative easing - which involved the BoJ in large-scale purchasing of government debt - was to blame for a bubble in the bond market and its painful bursting in 2003.

Mr Richards says it is hard to find any clear benefit brought by quantitative easing. "In my view, all it really did was keep the politicians off the BoJ's back," he says.

Japan's economy did recover during the period in which quantitative easing was in place - and went on to enjoy its longest continuous period of growth since the second world war.

But many analysts say credit for the revival belongs less with monetary management than with a surge in export demand, driven by China.

Testing that thesis is complicated by the inevitable lack of a control group in any real-world macroeconomic experiment - one of the reasons that economics is an inexact science.

But the lack of unambiguous success for Japan's quantitative easing should not be taken to mean US adoption of similar strategies is pointless, given the bolder overall approach taken by the Fed and its greater flexibility in asset purchasing.

"Quantitative easing policy is likely to be more effective in the US than it was for the Bank of Japan," says Teizo Taya, a former BoJ board member who is now special counsellor to the Daiwa Institute of Research.
   RF20081217_12865_388.xml   INi81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | i814 : Banking   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REjap : Japan | usa : United States | fukus : Fukushima | asiaz : Asia | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America   IPCEN | EN02 | EN0207 | EN0208   IPDEconomic Indicators | Economic News | Inflation | Interest Rates   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTCOM00020081217e4ch00461  



 HDGulf states differ on interest rates   BYBy Robin Wigglesworth in Abu Dhabi      WC365 words   PD17 December 2008   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved   
   LPThe divergence of interest rates in the Gulf widened on Wednesday as Kuwait and Oman's central banks followed the US Federal Reserve's in cutting interest rates, while central banks in Bahrain, the United Arab Emirates and Qatar held their fire.

Most Gulf states have pegged their currencies to the US dollar, and are thus obliged to follow US monetary policy. However, the global financial crisis has sidelined many speculative hedge funds and international banks which would usually exploit any differences in interest rates. The Gulf states thus have some leeway to adopt different interest rates to contain inflation and boost growth.
   TDThe Kuwait central bank, whose currency follows a basket of currencies dominated by the US dollar, cut its repurchase rate on Wednesday by 50 basis points to 2.5 per cent to shore up its economy "against the challenges created by the global economic meltdown". Oman, which links its interest rate to movements in the London interbank offered rate, cut its repurchase rate by 89 basis points to 1.53 per cent.

Saudi Arabia, the biggest Arab economy, cut its repurchase, or lending, rate and reverse repo rate 50 basis points to 2.5 per cent and 1.5 per cent respectively on Tuesday, ahead of the US Fed's meeting.

Qatar, the UAE and Bahrain, despite pegging their currencies to the US dollar, and thus US monetary policy, have elected not to cut. The main rates of the Qatari, UAE and Bahraini central banks are 2 per cent, 1.5 per cent and 3.5 per cent respectively.

The region's central banks will have to hold their interest rates in line in the future due to a planned future monetary union, Standard Chartered Bank said in an economic report on Wednesday. The currency union is pencilled in for 2010 but analysts say that it is unlikely to be completed on schedule.

Interest rates are still negative across the Gulf due to high inflation, but the authorities have moved to buttress economic growth as the credit crunch finally hit the oil-rich region this autumn.
   RF20081217_12865_346.xml   INi81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | ecat : Economic News | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REbahrn : Bahrain | kuwait : Kuwait | qatar : Qatar | uae : United Arab Emirates | usa : United States | asiaz : Asia | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | gulfstz : Persian Gulf Regions | meastz : Middle East | namz : North America | wasiaz : Western Asia   IPCEN   IPDEconomic News   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTCOM00020081217e4ch00336  



 HDWall St jittery as rate cut euphoria fizzles   BYBy Alistair Gray in New York      WC750 words   PD17 December 2008   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved   
   LPNew York stocks retreated from a monthly high on Wednesday as euphoria over the US Federal Reserve's interest rate cut to virtually zero faded in the wake of Morgan Stanley's results.

Morgan Stanley lost 4.8 per cent to $15.35 after the bank reported a wider-than-expected fourth-quarter loss, which prompted Moody's to downgrade the bank's senior debt rating.
   TDShares in the bank had been one of the big winners in the previous session following rival Goldman Sachs' figures, which were no worse than the most bearish fears. Goldman rose a further 3.7 per cent to $78.79.

By midday in New York, the S&P 500 and Dow Jones Industrial Average were down 0.9 per cent at 904.64 and 8,845.61, respectively. The Nasdaq Composite was 1 per cent weaker at 1,574.48.

The retreat came after the central bank's historic move during the previous session spurred a 5.1 per cent rally in the benchmark S&P 500 index.

"It seems the rate now is not the main issue as the lowering of the base rate has failed to have the effect the Fed had hoped," said Ian Griffiths, dealer at CMC Markets.

Financials were one of the hardest hit sectors, down 1.8 per cent overall, as credit markets remained under strain in spite of the Fed's move towards unconventional policy measures.

Profit warnings and analysts' downgrades elsewhere weighed on the wider markets as they reinforced concerns over the prospects for company earnings during the recession.

Applecontinued its bad run, down a further 4.9 per cent to $90.73, after the withdrawal of Steve Jobs, chief executive, from the group's main event of the year prompted Oppenheimer to downgrade its view of the stock to "perform".

"It's past time for Apple to either disclose the state of his health or elaborate a viable plan for eventually transferring power," the analysts wrote, removing their price target. "Until such time, we can no longer continue to recommend Apple as a long-term investment."

Better-than-expected fourth-quarter earnings from Adobeafforded the technology sector scant comfort.

Shares in the software group were dragged 1.7 per cent lower to $21.94 as the wider sector fell 1.6 per cent.

Barclays noted the company did not give guidance for next year. "We believe the near-term environment will continue to pressure the top-line," wrote the analysts, although maintained their "overweight" stance on the stock.

Western Digitalmanaged a 1.5 per cent rise to $12.69, even though the group warned that it would miss quarterly revenue forecasts due to weak demand for its hard disk drives.

The company unveiled plans to cut some 5 per cent of its workforce to reduce costs.

Elsewhere, Newell Rubbermaidwas the worst performing stock on the S&P 500, pushed 27.5 per cent lower to $9.55 by a profit warning that prompted concerns over whether the company would retain its dividend.

Investors did not appear reassured by plans from the maker of Sharpie pens, among other products, to cut up to 10 per cent of non-manufacturing jobs.

General Mills escaped the declines among other consumer stocks - it was broadly flat at $61.29 - after the maker of products such as Cheerios cereal lifted its full-year guidance on the back of better-than-expected second-quarter profit.

Nikeand ConAgraFoods added 2 per cent to $50.65 and 9.5 per cent to $16.48, respectively, ahead of earnings due later on Wednesday.

The energy sector also came under pressure as oil prices were sharply lower early in New York, edging closer towards $40 a barrel, even after Opec's production cut.

Exploration stocks, such as Williams Companies, down 3.4 per cent to $14.49, did badly from the lower prices. However, refiners were snapped up due to their expected lower input costs while airlines rose 3.3 per cent overall.

The materials sector outperformed the wider market, up 0.1 per cent. Freeport McMoRan Copper & Gold gained 2.6 per cent to $25.54 as gold was trading higher.

The Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index, known as Wall Street's fear gauge, fell 3.2 per cent although - at 50.7 - it continued to indicate heightened levels of distress.
   RF20081217_12865_412.xml   NSm11 : Equity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | e1202 : Interest Rates | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCCN | CN05 | CN0501 | MN | MN02   IPDCompany News | Corporate Finance | Debt | Market News | Market Reports   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTCOM00020081217e4ch004s9  



 HDOverview: Dollar loses ground ahead of FOMC meeting   BYBy Dave Shellock      WC742 words   PD15 December 2008   SNFinancial Times (FT.Com)   SCFTCOM   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved   
   LPThe dollar came under further pressure on Monday and US stocks lost ground as investors fretted about the outlook for the economy and looked ahead to Tuesday's interest rate decision from the Federal Reserve.

On the currency markets , the dollar fell to a two-month low against the euro as continued uncertainty about the fate of the US car industry was compounded by data showing a 0.6 per cent drop in industrial production last month.
   TD"With domestic demand falling sharply, overseas demand in a state of collapse, and inventory to shipments ratios rising across many industrial sectors, further weakness in production in the months ahead looks all but certain," said Rob Carnell, economist at ING.

"This is yet another reason for the Fed to explore unorthodox monetary means to stimulate the economy, as we believe they will hint at in [Tuesday's] FOMC statement."

Steve Malyon, currency strategist at Scotia Capital, said: "The intense focus on the auto bail-out has not been kind to the dollar. It has returned the market's focus to the surrounding malaise in the US economy and the certainty that things will get much worse before they get better."

The Federal Reserve is widely expected to cut rates on Tuesday by at least 50 basis points to 0.5 per cent, with futures contracts indicating a 74 per cent chance that borrowing costs could be lowered to 0.25 per cent.

Ben Bernanke, Fed chairman, suggested this month that the central bank might consider buying longer-term Treasury or agency securities on the open market to keep yields from rising.

Adding to the pressure on the dollar on Monday were Treasury data showing that foreign demand for long-term US securities slumped in October. "Long-term capital flow was therefore not the main driver behind the strong US dollar rally in October - which caused the euro/dollar to fall by almost 10 per cent," said Kasper Kirkegaard at Danske Bank.

"Rather, we expect the strong dollar performance to have been driven mainly by a squeeze in offshore US dollar funding and the accelerated decline in the oil price," he said.

There were grim economic releases elsewhere. In China, industrial production slowed more than expected in November, and local reports in Russia claimed that output had slumped last month.

Japan's quarterly Tankan survey showed business sentiment suffering its sharpest fall since 1974 to hit its lowest level for nearly seven years.

Japanese equities put on a brave face as investors focused on hopes that a rescue plan for American carmakers could be revived. The Nikkei 225 Average rose 5.2 per cent.

The mood was far less sanguine in Europe and the US as President George W. Bush said a bail-out of the ailing car industry was not imminent.

By mid-afternoon in New York, the S&P 500 index was down 1.2 per cent, while the FTSE Eurofirst 300 index fell 0.3 per cent. Financials were hurt by concerns about quarterly earnings, and writedowns linked to Bernard Madoff's alleged fraud.

Government bonds rallied as US and European equities lost traction. By mid-afternoon in New York, the yield on the 10-year US Treasury was down 5 basis points at 2.54 per cent, while the 10-year German Bund yield fell 10bp to 3.19 per cent. UK gilts outperformed as the 10-year yield shed 12bp to 3.45 per cent - close to its record low.

Credit spreads widened on both sides of the Atlantic, with the investment-grade iTraxx Europe index up 2.5bp at 205.5bp and its US counterpart, the CDX North America index, rose 4bp to 266bp.

In the money markets, interbank lending rates continued to soften ahead of Tuesday's US rate decision, with overnight index swap spreads - seen as a gauge of banks' willingness to lend to each other - also easing. Three-month dollar Libor fell to 1.87 per cent - the lowest level since September 2004.

In commodities , the US oil price briefly pushed back above $50 a barrel amid speculation that Opec might sanction a larger than expected cut in output at a meeting tomorrow.

The rise in the oil price, and the dollar's weaker tone, helped push gold above $840 an ounce to a two-month high.

www.ft.com/shortview
   RF20081215_13196_404.xml   INi351 : Motor Vehicles | i81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | i814 : Banking | iaut : Automobiles   NSm132 : Foreign Exchange News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mntdbt : National Government Debt/Bond Markets | c33 : Contracts/Orders | e1101 : Economic Growth | e1202 : Interest Rates | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCCN | CN17 | EN | EN02 | EN0204 | EN02041 | EN0208 | MN | MN02 | MN03 | MN0306   IPDCompany News | Economic Indicators | Economic News | Foreign Exchange Markets | GDP & GNP | Industrial Production | Interest Rates | Market News | Market Reports | Markets | Production   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTCOM00020081215e4cf004h6  



 CLMCurrency Trading   HDWith Rates Near 0%, Dollar Is Dumped   BYBy Joanna Slater    WC664 words   PD17 December 2008   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGC1   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 2008, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LPThe U.S. dollar took a beating, as the Federal Reserve's move to slash interest rates to nearly zero unnerved currency investors.

With the target for the key U.S. interest rate now between 0% and 0.25%, the dollar tumbled against the euro, the British pound and the Japanese yen. The dollar has weakened 8.5% versus the euro over the past week, marking a reversal of its strengthening trend in recent months.
   TDThe Fed's move into uncharted territory on Tuesday may be essential to lifting the U.S. economy out of danger. But they carry their own consequences, say currency investors, in particular undermining the appeal of holding instruments denominated in dollars.

"By being so aggressive, the Fed has really signaled significant weakness in the U.S. economy," said Robert Catalanello, head of foreign exchange for the Americas at Calyon in New York. "As a result, why do you want to hold the currency, really?"

On Tuesday, oil prices fell even as the dollar weakened.

The U.S. now has the lowest key interest rate in the industrialized world, lower even than in Japan, where it is 0.3%. That means investors have little incentive to hold short-term interest-bearing instruments that are denominated in dollars, encouraging them to sell dollars in favor of other currencies.

By cutting interest rates almost to zero, the Fed has effectively used up typical methods for stimulating the economy. Instead, it is resorting to a strategy used in Japan earlier this decade.

This strategy can involve a variety of measures, but is generally referred to as "quantitative easing," because it tackles the quantity of money in the financial system rather than its cost -- in other words, the interest rate. It also translates into an increasing supply of U.S. dollars, potentially putting pressure on the currency because of an oversupply.

As long as the decline doesn't get out of control, a weaker currency can be an economic palliative, since it makes U.S. exports more attractive to foreign markets. Indeed, Japan actively encouraged a weaker yen during its experience with quantitative easing. In a 2002 speech before he became Fed chairman, Ben Bernanke described President Franklin Roosevelt's policy to devalue the dollar as "an effective weapon" against deflation during the Great Depression. He added that he wasn't forecasting or recommending such a move.

Japan officially adopted "quantitative easing" in early 2001, pushing money into the system through a number of measures, including direct purchases of Japanese bonds, asset-backed securities and even stocks.

Like Japan, the Fed has expanded its own balance sheet, essentially creating money to fund a variety of new programs. Tuesday it said it would expand its purchases of debt, and even consider buying U.S. Treasury bonds.

But investors worry that these policies eventually could cause rampant inflation if the economy shows any signs of recovery. That is bad for the dollar, since inflation erodes a currency's value. "This is a real attempt at overwhelming force here," says Alan Ruskin, chief international strategist at RBS Greenwich Capital. The problem, he says, is that the Fed is moving toward a type of policy that is "absolutely impossible to calibrate."

While the European Central Bank also has lowered its key interest rate, it has been far less aggressive than the Fed. European policy makers also have cautioned investors not to expect further drastic interest-rate cuts. That is in turn buttressing the euro against the dollar.

Late Tuesday in New York, the euro was at $1.4128 from $1.3691 late Monday, while the dollar was at 88.78 yen from 90.79 yen. The U.K. pound was at $1.5629 from $1.5277, and the dollar was at 1.1178 Swiss francs from 1.1594 Swiss francs late Monday.

---

Don Curren contributed to this article.



License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | e1202 : Interest Rates | e52 : Euro Zone/Currency | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REeurz : Europe | jap : Japan | switz : Switzerland | uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | asiaz : Asia | easiaz : Eastern Asia | eecz : European Union Countries | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe   IPCPIC | CHF | GBP | JPY | NND | TPX | USD | FEX | MIM | TFR   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument J000000020081217e4ch0002s  


 HDFed Cuts Rates Near Zero to Battle Slump --- Historic Move Boosts Stocks as Consumer Prices, Housing Starts Drop Sharply; Obama Calls for Government Spending Program   BYBy Jon Hilsenrath    WC1,332 words   PD17 December 2008   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGA1   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 2008, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LPThe Federal Reserve cut its target interest rate Tuesday to historic lows between zero and a quarter percentage point and said it could expand a program of unorthodox lending and securities purchases.

After two days of discussion among Fed officials, the central bank said it would use every weapon from its arsenal to lift the U.S. from recession. It began by reducing its target interest rate -- an overnight bank-lending rate called the federal-funds rate -- from 1%. Another Fed lending rate, the discount rate, will go to half a percentage point, a level last seen in the 1940s.
   TDThe cut was more than many economists expected, and the statement that came with it marked the latest signal by the Fed and its chairman, Ben Bernanke, that the central bank was prepared to take aggressive steps to revive the economy.

"The Federal Reserve will employ all available tools to promote the resumption of sustainable economic growth and to preserve price stability," the Fed said in a statement. It added that it expected interest rates to remain "exceptionally" low for some time, a subtle commitment to the current policy that could help bring down longer-term interest rates.

In normal times, lower rates reduce the cost of borrowing for households, businesses and financial institutions, which spurs borrowing and economic activity. Those effects are being muted now, however, because many businesses and households are weighed down by heavy debts.

Still, stocks rallied on the news of the Fed's action. The Dow Jones Industrial Average finished at 8924.14, up 359.61 points, or 4.2%, on the day. Treasury bonds rallied, sending their yields lower. Yields on 10-year Treasury notes hit 2.269%. The dollar sank against the euro and the yen.

A number of official borrowing rates -- such as rates on three-month Treasury bills -- have tumbled to near zero, a level they haven't been near since the Great Depression.

President-elect Barack Obama used the Fed move as a rallying call for more fiscal stimulus, the idea of increased government spending or tax cuts, which Fed officials support.

"We are running out of the traditional ammunition that's used in a recession, which is to lower interest rates," Mr. Obama said in a news conference. "They're getting to be about as low as they can go. And although the Fed is still going to have more tools available to it, it is critical that the other branches of government step up."

The trouble for Fed officials is that while official borrowing rates are very low, interest rates for borrowers with even a modicum of risk remain far above levels of a few months ago, which is squeezing the economy.

Beyond lowering interest rates, the central bank said it could expand lending programs, including a plan to buy mortgage-backed securities. The Fed also said it was studying such rescue measures as purchasing U.S. Treasury securities, which could help reduce long-term borrowing rates.

Sixteen months into a campaign to lift the U.S. economy from a gathering financial storm, the Fed's efforts have so far failed, despite cutting interest rates more than five percentage points. In the latest example of the deepening recession, the Commerce Department said new home building dropped 19% in November, to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 625,000 units, a record monthly low.

"The Fed gets an 'A' or 'A-minus' for effort and not very good marks for results," said Alan Blinder, a Princeton economist and former Fed vice chairman.

Meantime, consumer prices posted their second straight record monthly drop, with the consumer price index falling by 1.7% in November. Gasoline prices tumbled, while car dealers, retailers and others stepped up their discounting to move goods and sell services.

In a sign that inflation is decelerating sharply, core consumer prices, which exclude volatile food and energy prices, were unchanged in November. In the past three months, they have risen at an annual rate of just 0.4%.

Price declines have helped many consumers in the short run, but a longer-run bout of falling consumer prices could be dangerous, giving households even more incentive to slow spending and hoard cash.

Persistently falling prices also raise the real cost of borrowing for businesses and households, and thus Fed officials are determined to try to avoid it. A senior Fed official said after the meeting that the central bank isn't now worried about deflation, but expects the inflation rate to decelerate further.

Officials spent much of two days of meetings deliberating over what other rescue steps the central bank could take as interest rates approach zero. Mr. Bernanke spent much of his academic career studying that and other questions related to financial crises, and the Fed is now employing almost every prescription he laid out in the past.

The approach carries several risks. It could eventually lead to the opposite of the current problem: higher inflation. It also exposes the independent central bank to political meddling and to losses on loans. Then there's the risk that it won't work.

The Fed has already started a campaign to lend directly to damaged financial markets and companies -- nearly anyone with collateral. Its statement Tuesday said those efforts could "sustain the size of the Federal Reserve's balance sheet at a high level."

By such lending, officials have effectively concluded that if banks and financial markets won't extend credit, it will do part of the job for them.

Two large Fed programs are still being ramped up. In one, the central bank has said it will buy as much as $600 billion of debt issued or guaranteed by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and other government-backed mortgage businesses.

So far, the Fed has only committed $8 billion to those purchases. Officials were relieved that mortgage rates have fallen since announcing the program last month. Rates on a conforming 30-year mortgages have dropped to 5.28% from 6.64% since the Fed's last meeting, according to HSH Associates, a financial publishing firm.

Mortgage rates have been one of the few areas in financial markets where credit costs have fallen in the past few weeks. In its statement, the Fed said it stood ready to expand the program "as conditions warrant."

Officials are focused on reducing other rates relative to Treasury benchmarks, a difference known on Wall Street as a spread. Across a wide range of lending, spreads have remained painfully high since September, a sign of tight credit conditions.

One closely followed spread is the difference between interbank lending rates over three months and the expected federal-funds rate. A growing spread indicates a higher cost of borrowing. That spread has come down from more than three percentage points in early October to about 1.5 percentage points, but it remains well above levels that prevailed earlier this year.

Other spreads have continued to march higher. For instance, 'BB'-rated junk bonds now trade at more than 14 percentage points above comparable Treasury bonds -- a crushing borrowing cost for many low-rated companies -- compared with a spread of less than six percentage points before September.

Fed officials have high expectations for another program through which they will lend as much as $200 billion against highly rated asset-backed securities backed by car loans, student loans, credit-card debt and small-business loans.

U.S. officials have said the Term Asset-Backed Securities Loan Facility is expected to begin operating in February and can be expanded to other asset classes, including commercial real estate loans or mortgages not backed by Fannie and Freddie.

(See related letter: "Letters to the Editor: Fed Would Do Better If It Had Single Goal" -- WSJ Dec. 22, 2008)



License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   INi81501 : Credit Types/Services | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | c13 : Regulation/Government Policy | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | ecat : Economic News | gvexe : Executive Branch | gvtre : Treasury Department | npag : Page-One Story | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCPIC | FED | USG | NND | PGO | TPT   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument J000000020081217e4ch00037  


 HDU.S. News -- THE OUTLOOK: Bernanke's Fed, Echoing FDR, Pursues Ideas and Action   BYBy Jon Hilsenrath    WC994 words   PD15 December 2008   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGA2   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 2008, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LPWhile Ben Bernanke was teaching economics at Princeton University in late 1999, he admonished officials in Japan for doing too little to get their country out of its economic funk. Their model, he said, should be Franklin D. Roosevelt.

"Roosevelt's specific actions were, I think, less important than his willingness to be aggressive and to experiment -- in short, to do whatever was necessary to get the country moving again," Mr. Bernanke said in a paper on Japan's paralysis.
   TDNearly a decade later, Mr. Bernanke, now the Federal Reserve chairman, is trying to follow his own advice.

Fed officials on Monday begin two days of meetings to deliberate on the course of U.S. monetary policy at a critical juncture. The central bank's target interest rate, at 1%, is widely expected to be reduced, but doesn't have room to go much lower. That means Mr. Bernanke needs to use other options at his disposal -- most notably his ability to lend and buy assets -- to lift the economy and bolster damaged markets, something the Fed is likely to signal a willingness to do.

In many ways, Mr. Roosevelt is his model, because Mr. Bernanke is undertaking a bold and very risky experiment with the nation's central bank to get the U.S. economy moving again. In the process, the Fed's reach is extending further into the financial system.

One of the key lessons Mr. Bernanke drew from years as an academic studying the Great Depression and Japan was that policy makers made matters worse by tarrying and by being constrained by convention. He sees them as mistakes he is determined not to repeat.

"Working together with the Treasury, the [Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.] and other agencies, we must take all steps necessary to minimize systemic risk," he said in a speech earlier this month, echoing his advice to Japan.

One buzz word inside the Fed these days is "blue sky," a term meant to encourage Fed economists and other staffers to come up with ideas beyond their normal boundaries.

At the New York Fed, where many of the central bank's programs are being implemented, the once-quiet markets desk has been divided into "SWAT" teams to get programs up and running.

"I call it the Great Experiment," said Vincent Reinhart, a former Fed staffer who co-authored papers with Mr. Bernanke on how to manage policy when interest rates get near zero.

In normal times, central bankers live in a rules-bound world, seeking to confine themselves to narrow, easily defined goals far from political influence. For the most part, they set their eyes on a level of inflation, and seek to use one instrument -- short-term interest rates -- to keep near the goal. Some, like the Fed, also try to keep unemployment low.

But experimentation is now the order of the day. The Fed already has rolled out nearly a dozen new programs aimed at rescuing failing institutions and specific troubled markets. Through its rescue of American International Group Inc., it is even buying assets at the core of the financial meltdown -- collateralized debt obligations -- which AIG has promised to insure but can't afford to do so.

The Fed's balance sheet has grown to more than $2 trillion, and because of its ability to print money to fund these programs, it could grow further still.

One of the Fed's next big projects is a program to backstop the asset-backed securities market, which finances auto, credit-card and student loans. It will be launched in February and Fed officials see potential in it to be expanded to other asset classes, such as commercial real estate.

Mr. Bernanke's choices could damage several objectives that the Fed holds sacrosanct. Low interest rates and an exploding balance sheet could some day cause inflation. With so much slack in the economy and commodities prices tumbling, that looks like a far-fetched risk today. But the Fed's novel new lending programs could be difficult to unwind quickly if the economy turns around unexpectedly, potentially leaving the financial system with more stimulus than it needs -- along with inflation.

Mr. Reinhart notes that Mr. Bernanke's approach also could open the Fed to political intrusion, something central bankers have fought for decades to avoid.

The recent debate about an auto-industry bailout was one example of the risk. Earlier this month, Sen. Christopher Dodd wrote to Mr. Bernanke asking if the central bank could help Detroit. Mr. Bernanke politely responded that he wanted to stay out of industrial policy. But after Senate action failed, the Connecticut Democrat raised the prospect of Fed involvement again at a news conference Friday.

"When the Federal Reserve is involved in more markets, more instruments and is seen to have an unlimited balance sheet and flexibility to use that balance sheet, it will be subject to political pressure," Mr. Reinhart said.

Moreover, Mr. Bernanke's activist approach could expose the central bank to losses on loans it has made. The loans are all secured in one way or another, and Fed officials said losses are unlikely. But in October, six months after taking on $29 billion from investment bank Bear Stearns' loan portfolio, the Fed decided to write down $2 billion of the holdings.

Then there's the biggest risk of all: the economy might not turn around. History was kind to Mr. Roosevelt because the economy got moving again on his watch, though of course it didn't really turn around until the U.S. became enmeshed in a world war. Mr. Bernanke will be a hero if the economy rebounds. But if it doesn't, the judgment is certain to be much tougher.

(See related letter: "Letters to the Editor: Economic 'Pragmatism' Has Limits" -- WSJ December 18, 2008)

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | c13 : Regulation/Government Policy | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | ecat : Economic News | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvexe : Executive Branch | gvtre : Treasury Department | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gvbod : Government Bodies | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter   REusa : United States | jap : Japan | asiaz : Asia | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America   IPCFDC | FED | TRE | USG | NND | OLK   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument J000000020081215e4cf0000a  



 HDU.S. News: U.S. Aims to Rein In Credit-Card Rates   BYBy Damian Paletta    WC768 words   PD15 December 2008   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGA3   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 2008, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 
   LPWASHINGTON -- U.S. federal regulators are poised to adopt tough restrictions to make it harder for credit-card companies to raise interest rates on millions of existing customers, reversing decades of light regulation of the industry.

The new standards, expected to be issued Thursday, would represent the biggest changes to the industry in a generation and will apply to more than 16,000 companies, including major credit-card issuers Citigroup Inc., Bank of America Corp., J.P. Morgan Chase &Co. and Capital One Financial Corp.
   TDThe new standards come as U.S. consumers are caught in a deepening economic recession in which access to credit, from student and business loans to home-equity lines, has been constrained. For many, credit cards are considered the easiest type of short-term loan to obtain from a bank.

The standards are expected to alter the types of products offered. Banks might be less willing to offer cards with low introductory rates that could be harder to change. Banks might also try to raise rates for many new customers to compensate for any lost income.

"We think it's really going to mark the beginning of the new marketplace for credit cards," said Edward Yingling, chief executive of the American Bankers Association, the industry's biggest trade group. "It will in some fundamental ways change the product."

The most controversial new policy is expected to prohibit banks from raising interest rates on existing card balances as long as a customer doesn't fall more than 30 days behind on payments. Industry officials have estimated the new rules could cost banks $12 billion in annual revenue.

The Federal Reserve, Office of Thrift Supervision and National Credit Union Administration, which drafted the rules, are also expected to require that banks give customers a "reasonable" amount of time to make payments and prevent banks from raising a customer's interest rate if the person has fallen behind paying other bills, among other things.

Bankers and consumer advocates will closely watch how narrowly regulators define the "reasonable" standard, which could spark debate over how onerous the rules are supposed to be.

The new rules, which refer to credit cards, not charge cards, won't require congressional approval and are expected to take effect by mid-2010.

Credit cards are a major source of income for banks and of credit for consumers. The Fed said U.S. banks had $976.1 billion of revolving debt outstanding at the end of October, a number that comprises mostly credit-card debt. These products are often controversial, and regulators hear thousands of complaints each year, typically related to late fees and interest-rate increases. The Fed said 4.9% of all credit cards were delinquent at the end of the third quarter, the highest level since the end of 2002.

The central bank had never used its powers in this area to ban certain credit-card practices before, and was under enormous pressure from Democrats in Congress after years of running a hands-off approach to consumer regulation. Last December, it banned certain mortgage practices that many believe contributed to the financial crisis.

Shortly after warnings from Capitol Hill, Fed officials began drawing up new rules. The central bank recently hired consumer advocate Allen Fishbein to serve as an adviser in its division of consumer and community affairs. Mr. Fishbein spent years working at the Consumer Federation of America arguing for tough consumer protection rules.

Credit-card companies in recent months have raised interest rates on certain cards to offset losses in other areas. Citigroup, which has 54 million active accounts, began notifying some customers recently that their interest rates were going up by an average of three percentage points. American Express also announced plans to raise rates on some customers by two to three percentage points on an annual basis.

Depending on whether the increases apply to existing balances, such action could be limited or banned by the new rules.

The Fed received more than 60,000 comment letters on the proposal, a record number for any regulatory proposal. Most were from consumers complaining about their credit cards.

The most significant change between the pending rules and a proposal in May was the government's decision not to enact specific rules related to fees that customers are charged when they overdraw their bank account. Regulators want more time to study this issue, people familiar with the matter said.

---

Jane J. Kim contributed to this article.

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
   COcptone : Capital One Financial Corp | ncnbco : Bank of America Corporation | ccred : Citigroup Inc.   INi81501 : Credit Types/Services | ibnk : Banking/Credit | i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | i8150108 : Credit Cards   NSe1106 : Consumer Credit/Expenditure/Savings | c13 : Regulation/Government Policy | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvexe : Executive Branch | gvtre : Treasury Department | e1202 : Interest Rates | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gvbod : Government Bodies | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter   REusa : United States | use : Northeast U.S. | usnc : North Carolina | usny : New York | usva : Virginia | namz : North America | uss : Southern U.S.   IPCBKG | CMR | DJCB | EWR | FED | TRE | USG | FCL | NND | LMJ | TPT   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument J000000020081215e4cf00029  

 Four at Four: Don't Mess With Mister Zero
WSJ Blogs, 22:55, 16 December 2008, 817 words, (English)
The Zero Effect commences today, as the Federal Reserve officially shifted away from targeting interest rates to a focus on purchases of various types of debt to try to get the credit markets moving again. Being that the effective ...
Document WCWSJB0020091010e4cg00aqa



 HDText: FOMC Announcement from Dec. 15-16 Meeting   WC773 words   PD16 December 2008   ET20:22   SNMarket News International   SCMARNEW   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008. Market News International, Inc.   
   TD
--FOMC's Oct. 29 Statement Follows for Comparison
 
     WASHINGTON (MNI) - The following is the text of the statement 
released Tuesday afternoon by the Federal Open Market Committee after 
its two-day monetary policy meeting: 

     The Federal Open Market Committee decided today to establish a 
target range for the federal funds rate of 0 to 1/4 percent.

     Since the Committee's last meeting, labor market conditions have 
deteriorated, and the available data indicate that consumer spending, 
business investment, and industrial production have declined. Financial 
markets remain quite strained and credit conditions tight. Overall, the 
outlook for economic activity has weakened further.

     Meanwhile, inflationary pressures have diminished appreciably. In 
light of the declines in the prices of energy and other commodities and 
the weaker prospects for economic activity, the Committee expects 
inflation to moderate further in coming quarters.

     The Federal Reserve will employ all available tools to promote the 
resumption of sustainable economic growth and to preserve price 
stability. In particular, the Committee anticipates that weak economic 
conditions are likely to warrant exceptionally low levels of the federal 
funds rate for some time.

     The focus of the Committee's policy going forward will be to 
support the functioning of financial markets and stimulate the economy 
through open market operations and other measures that sustain the size 
of the Federal Reserve's balance sheet at a high level. As previously 
announced, over the next few quarters, the Federal Reserve will purchase 
large quantities of agency debt and mortgage-backed securities to 
provide support to the mortgage and housing markets, and it stands ready 
to expand its purchases of agency debt and mortgage-backed securities as 
conditions warrant. The Committee is also evaluating the potential 
benefits of purchasing longer-term Treasury securities. Early next year, 
the Federal Reserve will also implement the Term Asset-Backed Securities 
Loan Facility to facilitate the extension of credit to households and 
small businesses. The Federal Reserve will continue to consider ways of 
using its balance sheet to further support credit markets and economic 
activity.
       
     Voting for the FOMC monetary policy action were: Ben S. Bernanke, 
Chairman; Christine M. Cumming; Elizabeth A. Duke; Richard W. Fisher; 
Donald L. Kohn; Randall S. Kroszner; Sandra Pianalto; Charles I. 
Plosser; Gary H. Stern; and Kevin M. Warsh. 

     In a related action, the Board of Governors unanimously approved a 
75-basis-point decrease in the discount rate to 1/2 percent. In taking 
this action, the Board approved the requests submitted by the Boards of 
Directors of the Federal Reserve Banks of New York, Cleveland, Richmond, 
Atlanta, Minneapolis, and San Francisco. The Board also established 
interest rates on required and excess reserve balances of 1/4 percent.
              
*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*

     The following is the statement released by the FOMC on Oct. 29, 
2008:

     The Federal Open Market Committee decided today to lower its target 
for the federal funds rate 50 basis points to 1 percent. 

     The pace of economic activity appears to have slowed markedly, 
owing importantly to a decline in consumer expenditures. Business 
equipment spending and industrial production have weakened in recent 
months, and slowing economic activity in many foreign economies is 
damping the prospects for U.S. exports. Moreover, the intensification of 
financial market turmoil is likely to exert additional restraint on 
spending, partly by further reducing the ability of households and 
businesses to obtain credit. 

     In light of the declines in the prices of energy and other 
commodities and the weaker prospects for economic activity, the 
Committee expects inflation to moderate in coming quarters to levels 
consistent with price stability. 

     Recent policy actions, including today's rate reduction, 
coordinated interest rate cuts by central banks, extraordinary liquidity 
measures, and official steps to strengthen financial systems, should 
help over time to improve credit conditions and promote a return to 
moderate economic growth. Nevertheless, downside risks to growth remain. 
The Committee will monitor economic and financial developments carefully 
and will act as needed to promote sustainable economic growth and price 
stability. 

     Voting for the FOMC monetary policy action were: Ben S. Bernanke, 
Chairman; Timothy F. Geithner, Vice Chairman; Elizabeth A. Duke; Richard 
W. Fisher; Donald L. Kohn; Randall S. Kroszner; Sandra Pianalto; Charles 
I. Plosser; Gary H. Stern; and Kevin M. Warsh. 

     In a related action, the Board of Governors unanimously approved a 
50-basis-point decrease in the discount rate to 1-1/4 percent. In taking 
this action, the Board approved the requests submitted by the Boards of 
Directors of the Federal Reserve Banks of Boston, New York, Cleveland, 
and San Francisco.

   ** Market News International Washington Bureau: 202-371-2121 ** 
 
[TOPICS: MMUFE$,MGU$$$,M$U$$$,M$$FI$]
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | e1101 : Economic Growth | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBMarket News International, Inc.   ANDocument MARNEW0020081217e4cg0000g  



 HDThe Beckner Report: 'Considerable Period' Part II   WC1,568 words   PD17 December 2008   ET20:00   SNMarket News International   SCMARNEW   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008. Market News International, Inc.   
   TD

  The Fed Pulls Out All Stops; 'Considerable Period' Part II
                
                  By Steven K. Beckner
                Wednesday, Dec. 17, 2008

    Rudolph the Red-Nosed Reindeer, as Gene Autry warbled, was destined
to "go down in history." But Rudy has nothing on Ben Bernanke's
trail-blazing Federal Reserve.

    It would be hard to overstate the significance of the Federal
Reserve's Dec. 16, 2008 monetary policy announcement. It was a major
departure.

    Although much of what the Fed's policymaking Federal Open Market
Committee did was anticipated here, the historic announcement was still
breathtakingly aggressive and far-reaching.

    But it leaves one wondering: What now?

    The FOMC slashed the federal funds rate more than expected from an
already bargain-basement 1% to a range of zero to a quarter of a
percent. The funds rate had already been trading in that range, so the
FOMC was in effect ratifying what the market had already wrought and, in
effect, conceding that its interest-on-reserves policy was unable to set
much of a floor under the funds rate.

    The lowest target the FOMC had ever announced before was 1%. As you
recall the rate was cut to that level on June 25, 2003 and left there
for a "considerable period" until June 30, 2004.

    And the Fed has never announced a target range, although it has
certainly had internal ranges before.

    More significant, arguably, than the super-low rate itself is the
FOMC's assertion that it "anticipates that weak economic conditions are
likely to warrant exceptionally low levels of the federal funds rate for
some time."

    A senior Fed official, holding an unheard-of post-FOMC briefing on
the announcement, made clear that the funds rate would be held near zero
so long as the economy remains weak -- however long that may be.

    In other words, notwithstanding officials' past rhetoric about
removing accommodation "in a timely way," the Fed is not going to be in
any rush to firm policy. Do not look for the Fed to preemptively raise
rates on the basis of some ambitious forecast of recovery. It's going to
wait to see the "whites of the eyes" of recovery, and I wouldn't be
surprised if policy is kept very accommodative well after recovery has
begun.

    "Accommodation," in fact, seems far too euphemistic a term for what
the Fed is doing.

    What happens if the Fed, in the meantime, is confronted by the
pearly white teeth of inflation, is an interesting question which the
Fed prefers not to think too much about just now. The expectation is
that inflation will not only remain low but decelerate further, though
not all the way into deflation.

    And, as I wrote in my Dec. 5 Beckner Report essay, "The hope among
policymakers is that, when recovery comes, it will come fairly gradually
and that lingering resource slack will retard price pressures and
inflation expectations long enough to give the Fed time to remove its
accommodation in a way that avoids a flare-up of inflation."

    Let's hope that they're right.

    By the way, you should not be surprised that the FOMC has indicated
its intention to hold rates down for a good while. As far back as March
31, I had written on a number of occasions that the Fed was likely to
signal a willingness to hold rates low for an extended period.

    "Is the Federal Reserve headed for another 'considerable period' of
holding the key federal funds rate at very low levels?" I asked.

    "Could be," I wrote in answer to my own question. "There does
seem to be a mounting sense around the Federal Reserve system that the
economy is in for a lengthy slump, if not outright recession, and that
financial strains and high energy costs pose downside risks of something
even worse."

    "In that scenario, there is a substantial consensus that the FOMC
would not be able to raise the funds rate much, if at all."

    And I quoted a Fed source saying, "The more sluggish the economy,
as long as inflation behaves itself, the less urgent it is to reverse
funds rate cuts wherever they end up."

     More recently, in my Dec. 5 Beckner Report essay, I wrote: "A spark 
of economic activity could conceivably cause an inflationary 
conflagration unless the Fed acts preemptively to remove that tinder. 
But that kind of preemptive action, coming out of the worst crisis since 
the 1930s, will be very difficult and politically tricky." 

    "Withdrawing all that monetary stimulus 'in a timely way' may
prove problematical given the uncertain outlook and the lags with which
policy works," I went on. " And as I say it will be a politically very
sensitive decision to have to make."

    "As long as the Fed remains concerned about the 'adverse feedback
loop' between the financial crisis and recession and so long as there is
even a small risk of the dreaded deflation, the Fed will be inclined to
maintain its super-accommodative stance for 'a considerable period,'"
the essay continued. "The hope among policymakers is that, when
recovery comes, it will come fairly gradually and that lingering
resource slack will retard price pressures and inflation expectations
long enough to give the Fed time to remove its accommodation in a way
that avoids a flare-up of inflation."

    Of course, the FOMC announcement was about much more than the funds
rate. Indeed, the funds rate has become almost an afterthought now that
the FOMC has, as I also anticipated, moved fairly explicitly to a form
of quantitative easing.

    True, the FOMC did not use those exact words in its announcement,
and a senior Fed official took pains to distinguish what the Fed is
doing and is going to do from the Bank of Japan's brand of "quantitative
easing." But the Fed policy statement was clear enough.

    After vowing to "employ all available tools to promote the
resumption of sustainable economic growth and to preserve price
stability" and to keep rates "exceptionally low ... for some time," the
Fed declared: "The focus of the Committee's policy going forward will be
to support the functioning of financial markets and stimulate the
economy through open market operations and other measures that sustain
the size of the Federal Reserve's balance sheet at a high level.  As
previously announced, over the next few quarters the Federal Reserve
will purchase large quantities of agency debt and mortgage-backed
securities to provide support to the mortgage and housing markets, and
it stands ready to expand its purchases of agency debt and
mortgage-backed securities as conditions warrant. The Committee is also
evaluating the potential benefits of purchasing longer-term Treasury
securities. Early next year, the Federal Reserve will also implement
the Term Asset-Backed Securities Loan Facility to facilitate the
extension of credit to households and small businesses. The Federal
Reserve will continue to consider ways of using its balance sheet to
further support credit markets and economic activity."

    Again, you should not have been surprised. On Dec. 8 I wrote that
"as the Fed is forced to resort more and more to making monetary policy
by increasing the supply rather than lowering the price of money, the
Fed faces a major communication challenge."

    "It is recognized at the Fed that the central bank will have to
clearly communicate the new quantitative approach, not purely for the
sake of transparency but also to maximize the policy's effectiveness," I
continued. "If, as seems very likely, the FOMC continues to ease policy
and does so quantitatively, it will have to make major changes in the
policy paragraph of the FOMC's rate announcement."

    Make no mistake; this is quantative easing Fed style. A senior Fed
official emphasized that, unlike the Bank of Japan's zero interest
rate/quantitive easing policy, the Fed is focused not on increasing
reserve liabilities to push down rates generally but on buying certain
classes of assets, particularly mortgage-related ones, in an effort to
narrow spreads and lower mortgage rates.

    The senior official made clear the Fed will do as much of that sort
of thing as necessary, possibly in conjunction with the U.S. Treasury's
$700 billion Troubled Asset Relief (TARP) fund, which has already been
tapped to assist the Fed in supporting the issuance of asset-backed
securities collateralized by student loans, auto loans, credit card
loans and loans guaranteed by the Small Business Administration.

    The official suggested more such joint Fed-Treasury credit easing
operations are very much a possibility after consultation with Treasury
Secretary Henry Paulson and his designated successor Timothy Geithner,
current president of the New York Fed, who has been working closely with
Bernanke since the mortgage crisis erupted more than a year ago.

    In short, the Fed is pulling out all the stops to jerk the U.S.
financial system and economy out of their deep slump.

    The Fed's balance sheet, which has already exploded from from
$880.2 billion before the Lehman Brothers collapse to $2.293 trillion as
of Dec. 11, will bear close watching. It can be expected to balloon much
further.

  -more- (1 of 2)

 ------------------------------------------------------------------------

   This regular analysis column contains the personalized views of 
MNI's Federal Reserve correspondent on recent Fed developments. Reach 
the author via e-mail at beckner@marketnews.com. 

              ** Market News International ** 

[TOPICS: MMUFE$,M$U$$$]
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBMarket News International, Inc.   ANDocument MARNEW0020081217e4ch000h5  

 Fed Move Takes Rate Markets Into Unexplored Terrain
WSJ Blogs, 18:00, 17 December 2008, 1108 words, (English)
The Federal Reserve's unprecedented switch to a range for its key target rate has propelled rate markets into uncharted territory.The exact impact of the move to a range won't be clear for some time. Investors and traders need to ...
Document WCWSJB0020091010e4ch00amx



 SEFRONT PAGE - COMPANIES & MARKETS   HDUltra-low US rates undermine repo market   BYBy Michael Mackenzie in New York       WC391 words   PD17 December 2008   SNFinancial Times   SCFTFT   EDAsia Ed1   PG13   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved    
   LPExtremely low short-term interest rates in the US are sharply eroding the functioning of the government repurchase or repo market, a foundation stone for the financial system and trading Treasury debt.

While investors expected the Federal Reserve to reduce its benchmark interest rate by half a percentage point to 0.50 per cent yesterday, short-term market rates have been trading at close to zero per cent in recent weeks.
   TDDriven by a flight to safety by investors and expectations of rate cuts, such conditions are creating problems in the repo market, where investors borrow Treasuries in return for short-term cash loans. This activity allows traders to sell Treasuries without owning them in the first place, while owners of government debt can fund their portfolios by lending Treasuries.

When rates tumble to low levels, it reduces the economic incentive to lend securities. The reduction in liquidity in the $5,800bn Treasury market comes at a time when conditions have become strained as the calendar year draws to a close.

The problems also come as the US Treasury prepares to issue a massive amount of new government bonds for the current financial year.

"Low rates are having a corrosive effect on the repo market, which will impair liquidity in Treasuries," said Michael Cloherty, strategist at Banc of America Securities. "We are getting close to a situation where structural damage caused by low interest rates outweighs any benefit from easier monetary policy.

"In a [financial] year where the Treasury is facing a net financing need of roughly $1,800bn, lower trading volume is a major concern."

Problems in repo impair general trading across the Treasury market. A rise in so-called failed trades, where a borrowed security is not returned in a timely fashion, becomes a drain on the balance sheets of dealers. Low interest rates are also hampering the ability of dealers in financing positions by matching the different needs of clients, known as matching offsetting trades.

"The zero per cent interest rate environment is effectively eliminating the dealer matched-book business and crippling dealer intermediation in the repo market," said Scott Skyrm, senior vice-president at Newedge, a repo broker dealer.

Markets in crisis, Page 21
   RFftnewspaper_20081217.xml|20081217A113.233   NSmcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | npag : Page-One Story | e1202 : Interest Rates | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | gvtre : Treasury Department | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | gvexe : Executive Branch | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCEN02 | EN | GN | EN0208 | MN | MN02   IPDEconomic Indicators | Economic News | Government News | Interest Rates | Market News | Market Reports   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTFT000020081217e4ch00012  



 HDTheFXSpot: Dlr Sold After Bold Fed Move; Euro Over $1.41   WC1,012 words   PD16 December 2008   ET22:38   SNMarket News International   SCMARNEW   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008. Market News International, Inc.   
   TD
           
By Vicki Schmelzer 

     NEW YORK, Dec 16 (MNI) - The FX market embraced the bold action 
taken by the Federal Reserve Tuesday and sold dollars across the board, 
suddenly sending the euro to two-month highs over $1.4100. 
     
     The Federal Reserve, instead of lowering the bench market fed funds
rate 50 basis points to 0.50% -- the lowest level ever, opted for 
another tactic.

     In the accompanying statement, the Fed established a target range 
for fed funds of zero to 0.25%, and said that "weak economic conditions 
are likely to warrant exceptionally low levels of the federal funds rate 
for some time." 

     The Fed also lowered the discount rate 75 basis points to 0.50%.

     The central bank stressed that it "will employ all available tools 
to promote the resumption of sustainable economic growth and to preserve 
price stability."

     Analysts cheered the "bold" moves taken by the Fed, but at the same 
time voiced concern about the after-effects of such "extreme" policy 
action.

     TJ Marta, fixed income strategist at RBC Capital Markets, said the
Fed was "providing an 'immovable object' of fiat government resolve to 
stop deleveraging/deflation."

     With U.S. Treasury yields now falling to new record lows, he looked 
for the curve to eventually flatten "as the short end of the curve runs 
out of room to fall further.

     Ian Morris, economist at HSBC, said the Fed action "makes 2009 a 
fascinating laboratory experiment to see whether extreme policy can 
successfully fight the unwinding of three decades of leveraging up."

     HSBC looked for 10-year Treasury yields "to eventually head to 
the 1.5-2.0% range, as we think the earliest the Fed will raise Fed 
funds is 2011, maybe later."

     The 10-year U.S. Treasury yield stood around 2.266% late Tuesday.

     In FX action, the dollar slipped against both major and minor 
currencies, with losses of various magnitude.

     Traders stressed that two distinct actions were taking place, i.e.
market players were buying euros because of interest rate differentials
and were buying sterling, Canadian and Aussie dollars and emerging 
market currencies because of improved risk appetite.

     "It's a bit of both," explained one U.S. trader.

     Euro-dollar was trading at $1.4070 late Tuesday, on the high side 
of a $1.3631 to $1.4150  range.

     At its earlier peak, the pair was up 14.8% from the late October 
lows near $1.2330 and down 11.8% from the life-time high of $1.6040 seen 
in July. 

     Dollar-yen held at Y89.01 and euro-yen at Y125.24, after trading 
in respective ranges of Y88.64 to Y90.73 and YY122.55 to Y125.50.

     Cable was trading at $1.5595, in the middle of its range of $1.5205
to $1.5650.

     Traders were keeping a close eye on euro-dollar and euro-yen for
separate reasons.

     With the Fed now effectively putting U.S. yields at zero, the 
European Central Bank's minimum refi rate of 2.50% looks awfully 
tempting.

     In contrast to the Fed and the Bank of Japan, the modern day 
creator of of Zero Interest Rate Policy  (ZIRP), the ECB is seen as 
dragging its heels in terms of future easing. 

     Even if the ECB's refi-rate is adjusted 50 basis points lower at 
the January 15 meeting, the eurozone will still hold the yield advantage 
over the U.S. and Japan. 

     ECB President Jean Claude Trichet said earlier Tuesday that "at 
this stage" there is the idea that "nominal rates that are too low" 
should be avoided. 

     "We consider at this stage that it is important that the 175 bps 
cut we have already decided will become operational," Trichet said.

     This partially explains why he does not want to comment on the 
Governing Council's January 15 rate setting meeting, he added. 

     The ECB is also looking at using other monetary policy tools in 
their kitbag, Trichet said. 
     
     Asked about new measures the central bank might introduce to make 
sure previous cuts are effective, Trichet responded that cutting deposit 
rates "is an idea that is being considered." 

     The idea behind such a move is that by reducing the rate it pays 
banks to deposit their excess funds with the ECB, the central bank could 
induce them to lend to each other instead.  

     On whether the ECB might consider buying debt, Trichet said he does 
"not want to exclude for the future anything" but that at the moment "we 
judge that it will not be appropriate at all."

     The euro gains being seen on the day served to underpin other 
currencies, such as cable and Aussie, but these currencies were also 
gaining on renewed risk appetite. 

     As evidence of increased market appetite for risk, traders 
pointed to rising U.S. stocks and a dip in the CBOE's volatility index 
of VIX. 
     
     The S&P 500 closed up 5.14% at 913.18, after trading in a $868.57 
to $914.54 range.

     The VIX closed around 52.37, after trading in a $50.91 to 56.76 
range.  
     
     A clear-cut break below the November 28 low of 50.50 would suggest 
scope for a test of the last month's low of 44.25, seen November 4.

     A sub-50 break would also further confirm rising risk appetite, 
analysts said.
Dollar Rates in New York Trade:   

                    Eur-Dlr   Dlr-Yen   Eur-Yen   Stg-Dlr   Dlr-Swiss

     4:26 p.m.      1.4070    89.01     125.24    1.5595    1.1215  
     2:13 p.m.      1.3789    90.11     124.25    1.5302    1.1427
    12:52 a.m.      1.3811    90.02     124.33    1.5311    1.1401
     7:38 a.m.  Tue 1.3679    90.07     123.21    1.5313    1.1401
     5:05 p.m.  Mon 1.3695    90.65     124.15    1.5301    1.1587
      
                                                                                                                                        
        -- 212-669-6438; e-mail: vschmelzer@marketnews.com 

  ** Market News International New York Newsroom: 212-669-6430 ** 

 [TOPICS: MNEF01]
   COwesah : RBC Capital Markets Corporation | royca : Royal Bank of Canada   INi814 : Banking | i831 : Financial Investments | i83101 : Investment Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | iinv : Investing/Securities   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ecat : Economic News | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBMarket News International, Inc.   ANDocument MARNEW0020081217e4cg00038  

 Fed Signals Willingness to Be Aggressive
WSJ Blogs, 21:24, 16 December 2008, 619 words, (English)
The Federal Reserve voted to use the rest of its conventional ammunition, cutting its federal funds rate target to between zero and 0.25%. But the Fed's most important work had already shifted from interest-rate policy to using its ...
Document WCWSJB0020091010e4cg00aqu

 Fed Zigs, ECB Zags
WSJ Blogs, 16:01, 16 December 2008, 520 words, (English)
For a few months this fall, the Federal Reserve and the European Central Bank seemed finally to be moving in tandem, both cutting rates aggressively to stave off economic and financial-market meltdown. Now, the gap between the world's ...
Document WCWSJB0020091010e4cg00at5



 HDPRECIOUS-Gold eases ahead of U.S. Fed rate decision   WC447 words   PD16 December 2008   ET09:24   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited   
   LPLONDON, Dec 16 (Reuters) - Gold prices retreated slightly on Tuesday but a weaker dollar was seen supporting the precious metals complex ahead of the U.S. Federal Reserve interest rate decision.

"With the dollar substantially weaker against the euro all metals continue to find support," analyst Walter de Wet at Standard Bank said in a report.
   TD"Global financial markets seem to be waiting for the Fed interest rate decision tonight as well as news on a bail-out plan for US automakers."

PRICES * Spot gold <XAU=> was lower at $834.05/836.00 an ounce at 0807 GMT compared with $837.80 in New York late on Monday, when it hit a two-month high of $844.20.

* Silver <XAG=> was down at $10.56/10.64 from $10.62.

* Platinum <XPT=> up at $828/848 from $817.

* Palladium <XPD=> at $172/180 from $171.

DATA/EVENTS

* German Markit/BME Purchasing Managers' Index at 0830 GMT

* Eurozone Markit Purchasing Managers' Index due at 0900 GMT

* UK Consumer Price Index due at 0930 GMT

* U.S. Building Permits for November due at 1330 GMT

* U.S. Consumer Price Index at 1330 GMT

* U.S. Housing starts for November 1330 GMT

* U.S. Redbook 1355 GMT

* U.S. Federal Reserve rate decision due at 1915 GMT

MARKET NEWS

* The dollar fell broadly and hit a two-month low against the euro as expectations grow that the Federal Reserve will cut interest rates to near zero and may lay out emergency tools to curtail a recession. [ID:nT153968]

* The U.S. Fed looks set to halve interest rates and bring them closer to zero, while Japan and China signalled they were ready to act again in a global drive to contain the worst financial crisis in 80 years.[ID:nSP283449]

* Oil steadied below $45, bolstered by expectations that OPEC will agree on its largest supply cut ever, after dropping 4 percent the previous day on persistent worries of a deepening economic slump. [ID:nSP360674]

* European equities edged lower, falling for the fourth consecutive session ahead of an interest rate decision by the U.S. Federal Reserve and quarterly results from Wall Street firm Goldman Sachs . [.EU]

* Investors eye losses from Madoff's alleged fraud [ID:nN14457948]

FUNDAMENTALS

* U.S. could announce auto bailout by Wednesday [ID:nN15511051]

TECHNICALS

* Gold support at $825, resistance at $876, RSI 14 at 71. * Silver support $10.00, resistance $10.68, RSI 14 at 66.

* Platinum support $800, resistance $850, RSI 14 at 55.

(Reporting by Anna Stablum, editing by Sue Thomas)
   RFMARKETS-PRECIOUS-PREOPENER|LANGEN|Table|ABN|C|MTL|UKI|SF   INimet : Metals/Mining   NScmarkr : Market Research | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | e1202 : Interest Rates | m1421 : Gold Markets | mpcsmt : Precious Metals Markets | c31 : Marketing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | m14 : Commodity Markets | m142 : Metals Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter   REeurz : Europe | uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | eecz : European Union Countries | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe   IPCGOL | INSI | MET | GDM | COM | METL | PREMTL | PREC/I   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020081216e4cg000qo  



 SEBACK PAGE - FIRST SECTION   HDFed could make history by cutting rate to zero   BYBy Chris Flood      WC492 words   PD15 December 2008   SNFinancial Times   SCFTFT   EDLondon Ed1   PG28   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved   
   LPUS interest rates could be cut to zero tomorrow, marking a historic moment for financial markets as the Federal Reserve, battling to prevent the credit crunch turning into an economic slump, takes monetary policy into uncharted waters.

The consensus forecast suggests US rates to be cut from 1 per cent to 0.5 per cent but there is a possibility that the Fed will go lower. Analysts expect the Fed to step up purchases of mortgage-related securities in an effort to reduce home loan rates and it could also start buying long-term Treasury bonds, reducing the benchmark rate for the corporate bond market.
   TDThis week's data releases will underline why these exceptional measures being adopted in the US could also be necessary in the UK.

US industrial production data, due today, are expected to show a drop of 0.7 per cent in output in November, taking the year-on-year decline from -4.1 per cent in October to -5.1 per cent.

The Fed's plans to buy mortgage-backed securities has helped longer-term fixed mortgage rates to fall and mortgage applications have increased as a result.

However, the US housing market remains extremely weak, with the National Association of Homebuilders activity index, due out today, expected to show only a marginal improvement from a record low of nine in November to 10.

Large numbers of unsold properties suggest construction activity will continue to slow, with housing starts, due tomorrow, expected to fall from 791,000 in October to 730,000 in November.

US inflation, due tomorrow, is likely to show the headline rate fall from 3.7 per cent in October to 1.4 per cent in November.

The minutes of the Bank of England's December meeting, due out on Wednesday, when UK rates were cut to 2 per cent, could indicate whether UK policymakers are preparing to follow the US example in adopting quantitative easing in an effort to end the credit crisis.

Further UK interest rate cuts are expected with inflation dropping sharply. Headline consumer price inflation is expected to fall from 4.5 per cent in October to 3.9 per cent in November's data, due out tomorrow.

UK unemployment is rising sharply, with the ILO unemployment rate likely to increase from 5.8 per cent in September to 6 per cent in October's data, due on Wednesday. Wages growth is slowing, with the headline measure for average earnings falling from 3.3 per cent in September to 3.1 per cent in October.

UK retail sales are expected to fall 0.4 per cent in November, slowing the year-on-year growth rate from 1.9 per cent to 1.2 per cent, but evidence from surveys and high street shops suggests consumer spending is even weaker.
   RFftnewspaper_20081215.xml|20081215L128.220   INi81401 : Central Banking | i8500031 : Residential Property Dealing/Owning | ibnk : Banking/Credit | i814 : Banking | i85 : Real Estate Transactions | icre : Construction/Real Estate | ireest : Real Estate | irreal : Residential Real Estate   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | e1121 : Home Sales/Housing Affordability | ecat : Economic News | ereal : Real Estate Markets   REuk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe   IPCMN0301 | EN02 | EN | ON23 | ON | EN0208 | MN | MN03 | ON27   IPDBonds | Economic Indicators | Economic News | Forecasts & Predictions | General News | Interest Rates | Market News | Markets | Mortgages & Mortgage Rates   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTFT000020081215e4cf0003o  



 SEFRONT PAGE - FIRST SECTION   HDUS Fed slashes rates to near zero   BYBy Krishna Guha in Washington      WC601 words   PD17 December 2008   SNFinancial Times   SCFTFT   EDLondon Ed3   PG01   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved   
   LPPolicymakers move into uncharted waters

Decision comes as deflation fears grow
   TDThe Federal Reserve moved deeper into uncharted waters yesterday, heralding further unconventional measures to support the economy as it slashed interest rates from 1 per cent to virtually zero.

In a historic statement, the US central bank said it would target a record low interest rate, expressed as a range of between zero and 0.25 per cent. It said it expected to keep rates at ultra-low levels "for some time" and vowed to use "all available tools to promote the resumption of sustainable growth and to preserve price stability".

The Fed's action came as the eurozone purchasing managers' survey showed the 15-country bloc on course to report its worst quarter on record, adding to pressure on the European Central Bank to follow the Fed's lead and cut rates further.

The Fed said it "stands ready" to step up its planned purchases of securities issued by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the mortgage giants now under government control. It also said it was "evaluating the potential benefits of purchasing longer-term Treasury securities".

The aggression of the statement caught the markets by surprise. Mohamed El-Erian, chief executive at Pimco, the bond fund manager, said it was "an incredibly strong public declaration that the Fed will throw everything it has in attempting to stabilise the financial and economic situation".

US stocks and Treasury bonds surged after the central bank's move, while the dollar slumped against the euro and the yen. The S&P 500 closed up 5.1 per cent, while the yield on 30-year Treasuries touched an all-time low of 2.82 per cent.

The yield on 10-year bonds fell below 2.30 per cent, the lowest level since 1954.

The statement came as US data showed prices fell a record 1.7 per cent in November - with no rise even in core prices excluding energy and food - raising fears about deflation. Housing starts also fell further.

The US central bank laid out a strategy that aims to drive down actual borrowing costs for households and companies. It seeks to do so by supporting demand for such loans, reducing the risk spreads on them. At the same time, it wants to keep government bond yields low.

This means expanded credit and outright asset purchase programmes, likely to be funded, at least for now, by expanding reserves and therefore the money supply. Jan Hatzius, chief US economist at Goldman Sachs, called this "quantitative easing". But a senior Fed official said its policy was different from the quantitative easing pursued in post-bubble Japan. The Fed policy is driven by its credit operations whereas Japan targeted bank reserves.

The Fed said the outlook for economic activity had "weakened further" and acknowledged that "inflationary pressures have diminished appreciably".

The decision to set a range for interest rates reflects an admission that the US central bank cannot tightly control the actual rate that prevails in the market in current conditions.

Barack Obama, president-elect, told reporters that the fact that the Fed had no more room to cut rates underscored the case for a big fiscal stimulus. "We are running out of the traditional ammunition that's used in a recession, which is to lower interest rates," he said.

Fed dips into toolbox, Page 5 Martin Wolf, Page 11 Lex, Page 14 The Short View, Page 15 Return of repo market, Page 33
   RFftnewspaper_20081217.xml|20081217L301.023   INi81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | i814 : Banking   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | npag : Page-One Story | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCEN02 | EN | EN0208   IPDEconomic Indicators | Economic News | Interest Rates   PUBThe Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)   ANDocument FTFT000020081217e4ch00055  



 HDUPDATE 4-Fed cuts U.S. rates to record low, vows more action   WC787 words   PD16 December 2008   ET20:30   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited   
   LP* Fed cuts interest rate target to 0 pct to 0.25 pct range

* Fed says may keep rates exceptionally low for some time
   TD* Fed to keep balance sheet large to stimulate growth

* Purchases of mortgage, government debt possible

(Recasts, adds background, details)

By Mark Felsenthal

WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The U.S. Federal Reserve on Tuesday entered uncharted policy territory as it chopped its benchmark interest rates to as low as zero and pledged to use "all available tools" to turn back a deepening recession.

In a surprise and historic move, it lowered its target for the benchmark federal funds rate to a range of zero to 0.25 percent, a record low, from 1.0 percent, and said it was willing to keep rates low for an extended period.

"The Federal Reserve will employ all available tools to promote the resumption of sustainable economic growth and to preserve price stability," the Fed said.

In addition to the rate cut, the Fed said it was prepared to expand a plan to purchase large amounts of debt issued or guaranteed by government-sponsored mortgage agencies. It also said it was mulling possible purchases of longer-term U.S. Treasury debt and would consider other ways to tap its burgeoning balance sheet to support the economy.

"The focus of the committee's policy going forward will be to support the functioning of financial markets and stimulate the economy through open market operations and other measures that sustain the size of the Federal Reserve's balance sheet at a high level," it said.

The Fed's announcement spurred a big rally in U.S. stocks, with the blue chip Dow Jones industrial average closing up 359 points, or 4.2 percent. Prices for U.S. government debt also shot higher, pushing yields to record lows, while the U.S. dollar fell to a fresh 2-1/2 month low against the euro.

"It's a highly unorthodox and creative step," said Michael Woolfolk, senior currency strategist, at the Bank of New York-Mellon in New York. "We think it's the best possible move for the U.S. consumer and for the financial market."

Financial markets had expected the Fed to lower rates by no more than three-quarters of a point.

OPENING FRESH FRONT IN CRISIS

U.S. authorities have been unable to prevent the recession from deepening despite a range of unprecedented initiatives designed to encourage lending by loss-scarred banks. They stepped up their actions after the failure of investment bank Lehman Brothers in September intensified the financial turmoil.

In addition to rate cuts, the Fed has pumped massive amounts of money into credit markets, pushing the size of its balance sheet to $2.2 trillion from $887 billion over the last three months.

The rapid expansion in the Fed's balance sheet amounts to a form of "quantitative easing", a policy pursued by Japan earlier this decade to expand the supply and circulation of money after it was forced to lower rates to zero.

Japan, however, pumped excess reserves into the banking system to try to jump-start lending. In the Fed's case, officials are trying to circumvent lending-wary banks and target specific markets where credit is jammed.

Evidence of how sharply the economy is braking came in a report on Dec. 5 that showed employers shed 533,000 jobs in November, the most in 34 years while the unemployment rate shot to a 15-year high of 6.7 percent.

Some economists expect output to fall at more than a 6.0 percent pace in the fourth quarter and many forecast the economy will shrink through the first half of 2009.

The Fed's decision "is a reflection of an utterly desolate economic picture, which will persist for the foreseeable future as the wrenching adjustment in household finances continues," said Ian Shepherdson, chief U.S. economist for High Frequency Economics in Valhalla, New York.

Aware it was exhausting its ability to stimulate the economy by lowering interest rates, the Fed started its meeting on Monday, a day earlier than initially scheduled, so policy-makers could discuss their options.

In a speech on Dec. 1, Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke said the central bank had a menu of measures from which to choose to lift the economy even if rates fell to near zero.

"Although conventional interest rate policy is constrained by the fact that nominal interest rates cannot fall below zero, the second arrow in the Federal Reserve's quiver -- the provision of liquidity -- remains effective," he said. (Additional reporting by Alister Bull)
   RFUSA-FED/ (UPDATE 4)|LANGEN|RNA|FUN   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | gpol : Domestic Politics | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCFED | CEN | MCE | INT | PLCY | WASH | POL | FED/CHRONO | EMBG:PLCY | embargokeyE1E1   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020081219e4cg001oa  



 HDAnalysis: Rate Cut, ABS And CP Buying Seen As Top BOJ Options   WC838 words   PD17 December 2008   ET07:16   SNMarket News International   SCMARNEW   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008. Market News International, Inc.   
   TD

By Hiroshi Inoue

     TOKYO (MNI) - Following the larger-than-expected rate cut by the 
U.S. Federal Reserve Tuesday, the market's focus has shifted to what 
specific measures the Bank of Japan will announce after its two-day 
meeting ends Friday rather than whether or not the BOJ will take any 
action at all. 

     The BOJ's policy board members are considering additional monetary 
steps, including measures to help corporate financing, after the central 
bank's Tankan survey released Monday showed that corporate sentiment and 
business investment plans had worsened sharply in December compared to 
three months earlier. 

     There are several possible options that the BOJ board may decide to 
take this week. 

     The most orthodox step would be to lower the target for the 
overnight lending rate among commercial banks from the current 0.3%, 
possibly to 0.1%. However, the stimulative effects on the real economy 
of such a move would be limited because borrowing costs are already very 
low. 

     What is needed is a way to boost interbank lending, which in turn 
should help commercial banks extend more loans to cash-strapped firms. 

     A person familiar with BOJ thinking said: "The impact of a rate cut 
will be very limited as the economic downturn hasn't been caused by the 
level of interest rates. Still, the possible lack of significant 
(economic) effect does not mean that the BOJ would not be able to cut 
the key interest rate further." 

     A second person familiar with BOJ thinking agreed that lowering 
interest rates alone would not have a significant economic effect but 
that the BOJ would be able to increase the economic impact if it were to 
combine several policy steps at once. 

     One option would be to purchase asset-backed securities (ABS) -- a 
policy tool the BOJ adopted from mid-2003 to March 2006 to help 
stabilize the banking system. 

     At that time, the BOJ decided to buy up to Y1 trillion of ABS, 
synthetic-type securities and asset-backed commercial paper. 

     Yet another option would be for the BOJ to conduct its first-ever 
outright purchases of commercial paper (CP). 

     "The BOJ hasn't completely ruled out a CP buying operation. But 
there is a high hurdle for the BOJ to clear before deciding to conduct 
such an operation, because it would mean that the BOJ will take on 
credit risk, said the second source. 

     "But this high hurdle doesn't mean that the BOJ would not conduct 
CP buying operations at all," this person allowed. 

     It would be easier for the BOJ to launch such a scheme if the 
government were to agree to cover any losses that resulted from holding 
the private-sector debt, the person added. 

     In any case, the BOJ will consider whether to introduce this or 
other operations based on current economic and financial conditions in 
Japan and on the outlook for these conditions, the person stressed. 

     BOJ officials have argued that taking on credit risk is the 
government's job, even though the BOJ in the past has bought shares from 
commercial banks on a temporary basis, taking credit risks with the help 
of the government. 

     BOJ Governor Masaaki Shirakawa said Tuesday that he was not ruling 
out the possibility that the central bank would take on credit risk, but 
declined to directly comment on whether it might consider buying 
commercial paper to help corporate financing. 

     "We are already taking on liquidity risks," he told a parliamentary 
committee. "Under severe economic and financial conditions, the line 
between liquidity and credit risks blurs." 
   
     The BOJ is being pressured by government officials to take 
additional policy actions in response to the continued appreciation of 
the yen against the dollar, which threatens to hurt exporter profits and 
dampen overall economic growth further. 

     Japanese Finance Minister Shoichi Nakagawa on Tuesday urged the BOJ 
to enact additional steps to support corporate financing, while Chief 
Cabinet Secretary Takeo Kawamura told reporters Wednesday that he hoped 
the BOJ would consider the impact of the rising yen in making their 
decisions this week. 

     On Tuesday, the U.S. Federal Open Market Committee cut the federal 
funds rate to a range of zero to 0.25%, a larger easing that expected by 
financial markets and the first time the Fed has not used a specific 
point target for the funds rate since the 1980s. It is also the lowest 
announced target range ever, although lately the funds rate has traded 
even lower. 

     The FOMC said in its statement announcing the rate cut that it 
expected the federal funds rate to remain "exceptionally low ... for 
some time." 

     On Oct. 31, the BOJ cut the key interest rate to 0.3% from 0.5%, 
its first rate cut since early 2001, reversing course from a gradual 
credit-tightening stance from mid-2006 through early 2008. 

                     hinoue@marketnews.com
     ** Market News International Tokyo Newsroom: 81-3-3221-9508 **

[TOPICS: M$J$$$,M$A$$$,MMJBJ$,M$$CR$,MT$$$$]
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | e1101 : Economic Growth | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBMarket News International, Inc.   ANDocument MARNEW0020081217e4ch0007a  



 SEMarkets   HDWith Rates Near 0%, Dollar Is Dumped   BYBy Joanna Slater    WC674 words   PD17 December 2008   SNThe Wall Street Journal (Online and Print)   SCWSJO   PGMarkets; C1   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2008 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
   LPThe U.S. dollar took a beating, as the Federal Reserve's move to slash interest rates to nearly zero unnerved currency investors.

With the target for the key U.S. interest rate now between 0% and 0.25%, the dollar tumbled against the euro, the British pound and the Japanese yen. The dollar has weakened 8.5% versus the euro over the past week, marking a reversal of its strengthening trend in recent months.
   TDThe Fed's move into uncharted territory on Tuesday may be essential to lifting the U.S. economy out of danger. But they carry their own consequences, say currency investors, in particular undermining the appeal of holding instruments denominated in dollars.

"By being so aggressive, the Fed has really signaled significant weakness in the U.S. economy," said Robert Catalanello, head of foreign exchange for the Americas at Calyon in New York. "As a result, why do you want to hold the currency, really?"

On Tuesday, oil prices fell even as the dollar weakened. (Please see related article .)

The U.S. now has the lowest key interest rate in the industrialized world, lower even than in Japan, where it is 0.3%. That means investors have little incentive to hold short-term interest-bearing instruments that are denominated in dollars, encouraging them to sell dollars in favor of other currencies.

By cutting interest rates almost to zero, the Fed has effectively used up typical methods for stimulating the economy. Instead, it is resorting to a strategy used in Japan earlier this decade.

This strategy can involve a variety of measures, but is generally referred to as "quantitative easing," because it tackles the quantity of money in the financial system rather than its cost -- in other words, the interest rate. It also translates into an increasing supply of U.S. dollars, potentially putting pressure on the currency because of an oversupply.

As long as the decline doesn't get out of control, a weaker currency can be an economic palliative, since it makes U.S. exports more attractive to foreign markets. Indeed, Japan actively encouraged a weaker yen during its experience with quantitative easing. In a 2002 speech before he became Fed chairman, Ben Bernanke described President Franklin Roosevelt's policy to devalue the dollar as "an effective weapon" against deflation during the Great Depression. He added that he wasn't forecasting or recommending such a move.

Japan officially adopted "quantitative easing" in early 2001, pushing money into the system through a number of measures, including direct purchases of Japanese bonds, asset-backed securities and even stocks.

Like Japan, the Fed has expanded its own balance sheet, essentially creating money to fund a variety of new programs. Tuesday it said it would expand its purchases of debt, and even consider buying U.S. Treasury bonds.

But investors worry that these policies eventually could cause rampant inflation if the economy shows any signs of recovery. That is bad for the dollar, since inflation erodes a currency's value. "This is a real attempt at overwhelming force here," says Alan Ruskin, chief international strategist at RBS Greenwich Capital. The problem, he says, is that the Fed is moving toward a type of policy that is "absolutely impossible to calibrate."

While the European Central Bank also has lowered its key interest rate, it has been far less aggressive than the Fed. European policy makers also have cautioned investors not to expect further drastic interest-rate cuts. That is in turn buttressing the euro against the dollar.

Late Tuesday in New York, the euro was at $1.4128 from $1.3691 late Monday, while the dollar was at 88.78 yen from 90.79 yen. The U.K. pound was at $1.5629 from $1.5277, and the dollar was at 1.1178 Swiss francs from 1.1594 Swiss francs late Monday. (Currencies table on page C7.)

Don Curren contributed to this article.

Write to Joanna Slater at joanna.slater@wsj.com 
   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | e52 : Euro Zone/Currency | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPDRobert Catalanello | Alan Ruskin | Foreign Exchange   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument WSJO000020091007e4ch00jvb  

 Economists React: 'Who Could Ask for Anything More?'
WSJ Blogs, 21:52, 16 December 2008, 773 words, (English)
Economists and others weigh in on the Fed's decision to cut interest rates to historic lows and signal a shift in the way it conducts monetary policy.Today's FOMC statement will go down in the annals of Fed history along with Paul ...
Document WCWSJB0020091010e4cg00amv

 Fed Calls: Options as Rates Approach Zero
WSJ Blogs, 16:16, 16 December 2008, 815 words, (English)
As the Federal Reserve prepares to release its December interest-rate decision, the consensus forecast expects a half-percentage point cut in the federal funds rate. However, much of the focus has turned to the policy statement, as the Fed ...
Document WCWSJB0020091010e4cg00aqq



 SEMarkets   HDCrude Futures Retreat as Traders Troll for Bottom; Oil Settles at $43.60 a Barrel Even as OPEC Production Cutbacks Loom and as the Dollar Continues to Weaken   BYBy Brian Baskin     WC879 words   PD17 December 2008   SNThe Wall Street Journal Online   SCWSJO   PGMarkets; C5   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2008 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.  
   LPNEW YORK -- Oil prices have bounced back from a four-year low, but analysts and traders aren't ready to call a bottom to the market.

Crude futures traded down to $40.50 a barrel earlier this month, marking a 70% plunge since July and the erasure of four years of gains in just five months.
   TDSince then, the looming production cut by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries and a sharply weaker dollar have lifted oil. The market has gone seven consecutive sessions without hitting a new low, a feat achieved only once since August.

Oil futures fell 91 cents, or 2%, to settle at $43.60 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Futures briefly crossed above $50 Monday.

Tight supply and a weak dollar played leading roles in a confluence of factors that lifted oil to record highs during the first half of 2008. The mere hint of their return caused oil to shoot up after falling to $40.

But some of the bull market's former champions still believe the worst is yet to come. Declining petroleum demand could overwhelm attempts by OPEC to reduce output, or prevent oil from regaining its status as a haven from the slumping dollar. On Tuesday, oil prices fell even as the dollar weakened after the Federal Reserve cut interest rates to a historic low and as OPEC telegraphed its intentions for a large production cut.

"What is not yet clear is how long the bottoming phase will last," wrote Arjun Murti, an analyst with Goldman Sachs Group. "Global economic conditions are the weakest the world has seen since at least the early 1980s and global oil demand is declining at an accelerating rate."

Analysts have called a bottom to oil's correction several times, and were proven wrong when the economy deteriorated more quickly than expected. A consensus on a recovery of the broader economy isn't seen in the near future, as recent U.S. government reports show the biggest declines in jobs, housing starts and consumer prices in decades.

The recent uptick in oil prices came as the dollar lost significant ground to the euro, recalling the first half of 2008, when commodities and currency markets seemed bound together by the investor flows between them.

An investor can counter the effects of inflation by buying crude futures priced in weakening dollars. Oil also becomes cheaper for traders who book profits in other currencies when the dollar weakens. Between January and July, the dollar sank to regular record lows against the euro, and oil shattered highs almost daily.

"Oil was a safe-haven play," partially supplanting the role usually played by the dollar in troubled times, said Phil Flynn, an analyst with Alaron Trading Corp. in Chicago. "That all changed when we realized this was a global crisis."

With the oil market at a crossroads, OPEC is hoping to force traders' hands. The group meets Wednesday in Algeria, and will announce a cut of about two million barrels a day, Saudi Oil Minister Ali Naimi said Tuesday. Russia, the world's No. 2 oil exporter, after Saudi Arabia, but not an OPEC member, has also said it may cut output.

Oil prices dropped after Mr. Naimi's comments, as they seemed to lessen the chance that OPEC's cut would exceed market expectations, traders said.

The combined cuts, along with reductions from other producers whose fields cost more to operate than the oil is worth, could total 2.5 million barrels a day, said Ehsan Ul-Haq, head of research with JBC Energy in Vienna.

World inventories will decline after a cut of that size, though it may be months before enough oil traders take notice.

"It takes time," Mr. Ul-Haq said. "The market is still seeing an oversupply, and this perception has to change."

The imminent drop in oil supplies indicates that crude is approaching its low point, but the market won't hit bottom until demand begins to level off, wrote Mr. Murti, the Goldman Sachs analyst.

Lower energy prices may already be helping to reduce the slide in demand. The latest year-on-year decline in refined products supplied by refiners was the lowest since September, according to the Department of Energy.

In other commodity markets:

GOLD: Futures held near steady in the early part of Tuesday trading in anticipation of the Federal Reserve's interest-rate announcement, but the metal ended higher on a boost from a lower U.S. dollar. Most-active February gold rose $6.20 to $842.70 an ounce on the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange. The metal then surged in the thinly traded after-hours session following the Fed's interest rate cut, rising as much as $859 at one point.

WHEAT: Concerns about damage to unprotected dormant wheat lifted prices at the Kansas City Board of Trade as cold weather is forecast to arrive in parts of the Plains. KCBT March wheat added 22 cents to $5.65 a bushel.

Write to Brian Baskin at brian.baskin@dowjones.com  
   COopexpc : Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries   INi1300003 : Crude Petroleum Extraction | i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | iextra : Natural Gas/Oil Extraction   NSmcroil : Crude Oil Markets | e1202 : Interest Rates | m15 : Derivative Securities | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | opec : Org. of Petroleum Exporting Countries (Discontinued from 1st April 2013) | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m14 : Commodity Markets | m143 : Energy Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations (Discontinued from 1st April 2013)   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPDArjun Murti | Phil Flynn | Ali Naimi | Ehsan Ul-Haq | Commodities   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument WSJO000020091007e4ch00k41  



 SEBusiness   HDFed Cuts Rates Near Zero to Battle Slump; Historic Move Boosts Stocks as Consumer Prices, Housing Starts Drop Sharply; Obama Calls for Government Spending Program   BYBy Jon Hilsenrath      WC1,315 words   PD17 December 2008   SNThe Wall Street Journal (Online and Print)   SCWSJO   PGEconomy; A1   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2008 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
   LPThe Federal Reserve cut its target interest rate Tuesday to historic lows between zero and a quarter percentage point and said it could expand a program of unorthodox lending and securities purchases.

After two days of discussion among Fed officials, the central bank said it would use every weapon from its arsenal to lift the U.S. from recession. It began by reducing its target interest rate -- an overnight bank-lending rate called the federal-funds rate -- from 1%. Another Fed lending rate, the discount rate, will go to half a percentage point, a level last seen in the 1940s.
   TDThe cut was more than many economists expected, and the statement that came with it marked the latest signal by the Fed and its chairman, Ben Bernanke, that the central bank was prepared to take aggressive steps to revive the economy.

"The Federal Reserve will employ all available tools to promote the resumption of sustainable economic growth and to preserve price stability," the Fed said in a statement. It added that it expected interest rates to remain "exceptionally" low for some time, a subtle commitment to the current policy that could help bring down longer-term interest rates.

In normal times, lower rates reduce the cost of borrowing for households, businesses and financial institutions, which spurs borrowing and economic activity. Those effects are being muted now, however, because many businesses and households are weighed down by heavy debts.

Still, stocks rallied on the news of the Fed's action. The Dow Jones Industrial Average finished at 8924.14, up 359.61 points, or 4.2%, on the day. Treasury bonds rallied, sending their yields lower. Yields on 10-year Treasury notes hit 2.269%. The dollar sank against the euro and the yen.

A number of official borrowing rates -- such as rates on three-month Treasury bills -- have tumbled to near zero, a level they haven't been near since the Great Depression.

President-elect Barack Obama used the Fed move as a rallying call for more fiscal stimulus, the idea of increased government spending or tax cuts, which Fed officials support.

"We are running out of the traditional ammunition that's used in a recession, which is to lower interest rates," Mr. Obama said in a news conference. "They're getting to be about as low as they can go. And although the Fed is still going to have more tools available to it, it is critical that the other branches of government step up."

The trouble for Fed officials is that while official borrowing rates are very low, interest rates for borrowers with even a modicum of risk remain far above levels of a few months ago, which is squeezing the economy.

Beyond lowering interest rates, the central bank said it could expand lending programs, including a plan to buy mortgage-backed securities. The Fed also said it was studying such rescue measures as purchasing U.S. Treasury securities, which could help reduce long-term borrowing rates.

Sixteen months into a campaign to lift the U.S. economy from a gathering financial storm, the Fed's efforts have so far failed, despite cutting interest rates more than five percentage points. In the latest example of the deepening recession, the Commerce Department said new home building dropped 19% in November, to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 625,000 units, a record monthly low.

"The Fed gets an 'A' or 'A-minus' for effort and not very good marks for results," said Alan Blinder, a Princeton economist and former Fed vice chairman.

Meantime, consumer prices posted their second straight record monthly drop, with the consumer price index falling by 1.7% in November. Gasoline prices tumbled, while car dealers, retailers and others stepped up their discounting to move goods and sell services.

In a sign that inflation is decelerating sharply, core consumer prices, which exclude volatile food and energy prices, were unchanged in November. In the past three months, they have risen at an annual rate of just 0.4%.

Price declines have helped many consumers in the short run, but a longer-run bout of falling consumer prices could be dangerous, giving households even more incentive to slow spending and hoard cash.

Persistently falling prices also raise the real cost of borrowing for businesses and households, and thus Fed officials are determined to try to avoid it. A senior Fed official said after the meeting that the central bank isn't now worried about deflation, but expects the inflation rate to decelerate further.

Officials spent much of two days of meetings deliberating over what other rescue steps the central bank could take as interest rates approach zero. Mr. Bernanke spent much of his academic career studying that and other questions related to financial crises, and the Fed is now employing almost every prescription he laid out in the past.

The approach carries several risks. It could eventually lead to the opposite of the current problem: higher inflation. It also exposes the independent central bank to political meddling and to losses on loans. Then there's the risk that it won't work.

The Fed has already started a campaign to lend directly to damaged financial markets and companies -- nearly anyone with collateral. Its statement Tuesday said those efforts could "sustain the size of the Federal Reserve's balance sheet at a high level."

By such lending, officials have effectively concluded that if banks and financial markets won't extend credit, it will do part of the job for them.

Two large Fed programs are still being ramped up. In one, the central bank has said it will buy as much as $600 billion of debt issued or guaranteed by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and other government-backed mortgage businesses.

So far, the Fed has only committed $8 billion to those purchases. Officials were relieved that mortgage rates have fallen since announcing the program last month. Rates on a conforming 30-year mortgages have dropped to 5.28% from 6.64% since the Fed's last meeting, according to HSH Associates, a financial publishing firm.

Mortgage rates have been one of the few areas in financial markets where credit costs have fallen in the past few weeks. In its statement, the Fed said it stood ready to expand the program "as conditions warrant."

Officials are focused on reducing other rates relative to Treasury benchmarks, a difference known on Wall Street as a spread. Across a wide range of lending, spreads have remained painfully high since September, a sign of tight credit conditions.

One closely followed spread is the difference between interbank lending rates over three months and the expected federal-funds rate. A growing spread indicates a higher cost of borrowing. That spread has come down from more than three percentage points in early October to about 1.5 percentage points, but it remains well above levels that prevailed earlier this year.

Other spreads have continued to march higher. For instance, 'BB'-rated junk bonds now trade at more than 14 percentage points above comparable Treasury bonds -- a crushing borrowing cost for many low-rated companies -- compared with a spread of less than six percentage points before September.

Fed officials have high expectations for another program through which they will lend as much as $200 billion against highly rated asset-backed securities backed by car loans, student loans, credit-card debt and small-business loans.

U.S. officials have said the Term Asset-Backed Securities Loan Facility is expected to begin operating in February and can be expanded to other asset classes, including commercial real estate loans or mortgages not backed by Fannie and Freddie.

Write to Jon Hilsenrath at jon.hilsenrath@wsj.com  
   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1103 : Inflation/Prices | e1120 : Housing Starts/Construction Figures | ecat : Economic News | npag : Page-One Story | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ereal : Real Estate Markets | ncat : Content Types   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPDEconomy   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument WSJO000020091008e4ch001gv  



 HDINSTANT VIEW 12-Fed cuts fed funds rate to zero-0.25 pct   WC1,333 words   PD16 December 2008   ET20:59   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited   
   LPNEW YORK, Dec 16 (Reuters) - The U.S. Federal Reserve on Tuesday cut its target for overnight interest rates to zero to 0.25 percent, bringing it closer to unconventional action to lift the economy out of a year-long recession.
   TDStory: [ID:nLG10118] Statement: [ID:nTRS000092] KEY POINTS OF STATEMENT: * The Federal Open Market Committee decided to establish a target range for the federal funds rate of 0 to 1/4 percent. * Since the Committee's last meeting, labor market conditions have deteriorated, and the available data indicate that consumer spending, business investment, and industrial production have declined. * Financial markets remain quite strained and credit conditions tight. Overall, the outlook for economic activity has weakened further. * Meanwhile, inflationary pressures have diminished appreciably and are expected to moderate further in coming quarters. * The Federal Reserve will employ all available tools to promote the resumption of sustainable economic growth and to preserve price stability and expects exceptionally low levels of the federal funds rate for some time. * As previously announced, over the next few quarters the Federal Reserve will purchase large quantities of agency debt and mortgage-backed securities to provide support to the mortgage and housing markets, and it stands ready to expand its purchases of agency debt and mortgage-backed securities as conditions warrant. * The Committee is also evaluating the potential benefits of purchasing longer-term Treasury securities. COMMENTS: CRAIG PECKHAM, EQUITY TRADING STRATEGIST, JEFFERIES & COMPANY, NEW YORK :

"The forceful language to really use its balance sheet rather aggressively to inject liquidity in the market is tantamount to quantitative easing. The Fed is pulling another arrow out of its quiver.

"Stocks like the fact that the Fed is moving forcefully to really inject more liquidity here in the economy and stimulate growth." BRUCE MCCAIN, CHIEF INVESTMENT STRATEGIST, KEY PRIVATE BANK, CLEVELAND, OHIO:

"I think what the Fed has said basically here is that interest rates are no longer relevant: we will set it essentially at zero and from here on out we will purchase whatever securities we think are needed to get the credit markets going again and get the economy going again."

"The Treasury market has been taken a little bit by surprise."

"I think the (market) fears of deflation are probably overstated, because ultimately the quantitative easing has major inflationary potential." JOCELYNN DRAKE, MARKET ANALYST, SCHAEFFER'S INVESTMENT RESEARCH, CINCINNATI, OHIO:

"The rate cut was definitely more than a lot of people were expecting and that's really helping the market here, but the big take away here is Bernanke's going back out into the market and trying to loosen things up in the credit arena.

We've got a Fed that's willing to really go the distance for the market right now." JESSICA HOVERSEN, FIXED INCOME MARKET ANALYST, MF GLOBAL RESEARCH, CHICAGO:

"They brought the down the target to where the effective rate has been trading. They are looking at buying longer Treasuries to bring down mortgage rates.

"The Fed has realized that there is one entity left to bring the financial system in line. It has to be the Atlas of the world to bear the weight of the financial system on its shoulder.

"This concoction of solutions can be pretty potent if it's done properly. This is not inflationary until the banks start lending.

"The short-term impact of this statement is bearish for the dollar. I would have a cautious position in the euro but the fundamentals in Europe are a disaster." GREGORY MILLER, CHIEF ECONOMIST, SUNTRUST BANKS INC, ATLANTA, GEORGIA:

"This allows them to directly effect specific indexes or market rates, for example mortgage rates. When they talk about targeting the longer end of the Treasury curve, that's where conventional mortgage rates are indexed. It's pretty clear that they are concerned about reconstituting the mortgage market to try to get housing back under way,

"It does provide banks with access to additional liquidity at lower costs, so that's lowering costs for banks to acquire funds. That will be good for banks' capital, but it doesn't directly encourage those same banks to utilize that new capital to get business capital spending and housing markets on track." HAAG SHERMAN, CO-FOUNDER, MANAGING DIRECTOR, SALIENT PARTNERS, HOUSTON, TEXAS:

"The Fed has been sending a message it will throw everything it has at deflation. The decision is setting the Treasury market rallying because of a more dramatic move than the market expected."

"The effective fed funds rate has been within that range for some time." MICHAEL STRAUSS, CHIEF ECONOMIST, COMMONFUND, WILTON, CONNECTICUT:

"The big thing that we were looking for from this was signs of quantitative easing and that is exactly what they are doing." NAUMAN BARAKAT, SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT, MACQUARIE FUTURES USA:

"The fact that the Fed cut rates by 75 basis points rather than the consensus of 50 points seems to indicate that perhaps the economy needs major, major overhaul that is bigger than expected earlier. That translates into lower demand for crude oil ... Prior to the announcement crude was up and as soon as the announcement came we fell." DANIEL PENROD, INDUSTRY ANALYST, CALIFORNIA CREDIT UNION LEAGUE, RANCHO CUCAMONGA, CALIFORNIA:

"The bond market is rallying because it is looking at historically low official rates. In the 94 years of the Federal Reserve system, short-term rates have never officially dropped below 1 percent. Money funds that up to this point have waived their fees and lived solely off of the interest rate can no longer do that when the rate is at virtually zero.

"The Fed did this to match what was currently going on in the market. The real federal funds rate had been roughly 13 basis points for the last two weeks. And because of that it's the tail wagging the dog with the Federal Reserve following the market versus the other way around." MATT ESTEVE, FOREIGN EXCHANGE TRADER, TEMPUS CONSULTING, WASHINGTON:

"You've seen the dollar weaken because it was a larger than expected cut. The dollar is falling against all major currencies. On one side, we effectively have a zero interest rate in the U.S. On the other side, the Fed has sent a sign that they are obvious ready to use all tools to help the U.S. economy out of recession. In the long run, the hope is this will be stimulative to the U.S. economy." DOUG ROBERTS, CHIEF INVESTMENT STRATEGIST, CHANNEL CAPITAL RESEARCH.COM, SHREWSBURY, NEW JERSEY:

"Essentially, they're just addressing reality. Treasury rates are basically already trading much lower than the federal funds rates...

"The real message is question, I never thought the target was that important, it was the message. The message is they're instituting quantitative easing on a fairly large scale.

"That's what (the stock market) wanted to hear. The rates are almost irrelevant... What really wanted to hear is that this quantitative easing was going to be done, and the Fed didn't run out of bullets." MICHAEL WOOLFOLK, SENIOR CURRENCY STRATEGIST, THE BANK OF NEW YORK-MELLON, NEW YORK:

"It's a highly unorthodox and creative step. We felt strongly that this would be the last rate cut of the cycle, leading into quantitative easing and Obama's stimulus plan early next year. I don't think the market has had sufficient time to digest fully the ramifications of this decision. But we think it's the best possible move for the U.S. consumer and for the financial market." MARKET REACTION: STOCKS: U.S. equity indexes extends gains after Fed sets funds target rate of zero to 0.25 percent. BONDS: U.S. 30-year Treasury bond prices rise . DOLLAR: U.S. dollar falls versus euro, pushing euro above $1.39. RATE FUTURES: Short-term rate futures jump.
   RFUSA-MARKETS/FOMC (INSTANT VIEW)|LANGEN|Table|ABN|E|RBN|U|D|M|O|OIL   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCMCE | ECI | PLCY | CEN | FED | MUNI | DBT | COFS | FIN | BSVC | FINS | INVS | FUND | BANK | US/INSTANT | EMBG:DBT | EMBG:PLCY | EMBG:US/INSTANT | embargokeyE2E2E2E2E2E2E2E2E2E2E2   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020081219e4cg001p8  



 HDComputer makers' shares climb after the  Federal Reserve  cuts rates to lowest level on record   WC297 words   PD16 December 2008   ET20:44   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPSEATTLE (AP) - Shares of computer makers rose Tuesday after the Federal Reserve cut a key interest rate to a range of zero to 0.25 percent in another attempt to buoy the sinking U.S. economy.

The new target range is the lowest since 1954, when tracking of the federal funds rate began.
   TDThe Federal Reserve last lowered the funds rate -- the interest rate banks charge each other on overnight loans -- by a half-point to 1 percent on Oct. 29. Since then, home building has continued to slow and job losses have mounted, and the National Bureau of Economic Research declared the economy has been in a recession since last December.

The technology sector is grappling with slowing consumer PC sales in the U.S. and other developed markets, and decreased spending on computers and software by business customers.

In a Dec. 1 research note, UBS analyst Maynard Um wrote that he expects PC shipments worldwide to fall 2.4 percent in 2009, compared with overall growth of 14 percent this year, as buyers wait longer to replace older machines.

Rates on home equity loans, credit cards and other consumer loans are expected to drop in response to the Fed's rate, and investors Tuesday were betting those cuts will prompt consumers and small businesses to start spending again.

Shares of Round Rock, Texas-based Dell Inc. jumped 63 cents, or 5.7 percent, to $11.76 in afternoon trading after the central bank's announcement.

Hewlett-Packard Co.'s stock added $1.28, or 3.9 percent, to $36.10.

Investors sent Apple Inc.'s shares up $1.10 to $95.85, reversing losses from earlier in the session.
   RF7   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagpf1finonl | sel----- | catf | 1333   IPDFinancial/Business | PC Makers Sector Snap | D9540CB00   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020081216e4cg005lu  



 HDRepeat: Analysis: Not Your Usual December FOMC Meeting -2-   WC549 words   PD16 December 2008   ET13:50   SNMarket News International   SCMARNEW   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008. Market News International, Inc.   
   TD
--Retransmitting Second Section of Story Published Monday

By Steven K. Beckner


     Charles Lieberman, Managing Member & Chief Investment Officer of 
Advisors Capital Management LLC, favored a fairly blunt 
quantity-oriented statement of Fed easing. 

     "Making strong statements would be helpful, because this is partly 
a crisis of confidence, and one way to restore confidence is to say the 
Fed is read to do what it can to help restore that confidence," 
Lieberman said, "and part of it is driving down rates like mortgage 
rates." 

     "It would be helpful if they said that" the Fed is going to use 
quantitative easing, he added. 

     There seems to be a widespread feeling among FOMC members that this 
is no time for pussy-footing. Even more hawkish members have expressed 
support for taking aggressive measures that go beyond manipulation of 
the funds rate. 

     For instance, Richmond Federal Reserve Bank President Jeffrey 
Lacker, one of next year's FOMC voters, was asked about Bernanke's 
proposal for buying long-term Treasury and agency securities and whether 
this represented "monetizing the debt." 

     "The Chairman sketched out the instruments we could use in lieu of 
interest rate reductions in order to stimulate economic growth," Lacker 
replied. "Those are the range of options we'd have to consider -- 
purchasing other assets without sterilizing those purchases." 

     Unsterilized purchases of long-term bonds would amount to 
"monetizing the debt," Lacker acknowledged. "That's in essence what 
those quantitative measures would amount to -- monetizing the debt. And 
as a result we have to be very careful about ... withdrawing it before 
it sparks a run-up in inflation." 

     But asked whether he is against "monetizing the debt" by buying 
long bonds, Lacker replied, "No. At times it's necessary to prevent 
deflation. ... You also do it to stimulate the economy when further 
reductions in interest rates are infeasible." 

     Current FOMC voters Dallas Fed President Richard Fisher, 
Philadelphia Fed President Charles Plosser and Minneapolis Fed President 
Gary Stern (the latter two in MNI interviews) have spoken 
matter-of-factly about the Fed doing what ever is necessary in the 
near-term to confront the crisis. 

     No one is particularly eager to take the kind of steps being done 
and being contemplated, but officials are resigned to doing it and 
dealing with the consequences in some brighter future. 
   
     Ultimately, every one on the FOMC recognizes the need to withdraw 
the unprecedented amount of money the Fed has pumped into the economy 
"in a timely way." Going forward, there is sure to be dissension over 
just what constitutes "timely" removal of monetary accommodation. But 
for now it's full speed ahead and worry about inflation later. 

     Another probable topic of discussion is what the Fed can expect 
from fiscal policy. The federal government is already doing a tremendous 
amount of deficit-spending, and President-elect Obama has talked of a 
public works spending program on the order of an additional $500 
billion. 

     Just how effective can the Fed expect that kind of fiscal stimulus, 
as opposed to various kinds of tax reduction, to be? The answer to that 
question is important for the Fed as it tries to gauge future economic 
performance and adjust its monetary policy valves appropriately. 

(2 of 2)

              ** Market News International **
   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBMarket News International, Inc.   ANDocument MARNEW0020081216e4cg0009f  



 HDWRAPUP 2-Saudi slashes rates ahead of Fed; UAE to opt out   WC791 words   PD16 December 2008   ET09:40   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited   
   LP* Saudi slashes interest rates ahead of Federal Reserve move

* UAE says to refrain from interest rate cuts
   TD* Saudi market rates fall on policy rate decision

(Adds analysts, details)

By Souhail Karam and Stanley Carvalho

RIYADH/ABU DHABI, Dec 16 (Reuters) - Saudi Arabia slashed interest rates on Tuesday ahead of a U.S. Federal Reserve policy announcement as it strives to boost liquidity but the United Arab Emirates said it would not ease rates for now.

A global financial meltdown has put the brakes on a six-year oil-fuelled boom across the Gulf Arab region, prompting policymakers to take a slew of measures to defrost money markets and restore investor confidence.

In the latest step on Tuesday, the Saudi Arabian Monetary Agency (SAMA) reduced its repurchase rate by 50 basis points to 2.5 percent, the fourth reduction in its benchmark lending rate since the global financial crisis intensified in October.

SAMA also cut its deposit rate, the reverse repurchase rate, for the first time since April to 1.5 percent from 2 percent, saying the cuts aimed to ensure adequate liquidity to meet domestic credit demands.

"The central bank is concerned the private sector won't be able to follow through with project financing commitments," said Paul Gamble, head of research at Riyadh-based Jadwa Investment.

"They really want to send a signal to the banks that they should make sure they will lend."

The Fed is expected to cut rates by 50 basis points to 0.5 percent on Tuesday, and most states in the oil-exporting Gulf have tended to shadow American interest rate policy to maintain the relative value of their dollar-pegged currencies.

But in the past few months, Gulf central banks have been cutting lending interest rates more than usual as they strive to defrost interbank markets and encourage private sector borrowing to keep their economies growing during an oil price slump.

The Gulf had been keeping lending rates high as it battled record inflation this year and last.

With inflationary pressures receding, the emphasis has shifted to alleviating the impact of the global financial crisis by slashing interest rates, guaranteeing bank deposits, supporting stock markets and pouring funds into banking systems.

The United Arab Emirates has been particularly active, with the central bank and finance ministry together launching 120 billion dirhams ($33 billion) of emergency funding since September to help banks cope with tight credit conditions.

NO UAE CUT

The UAE minister of state for finance also reaffirmed on Tuesday the government's promise to guarantee bank deposits, and said a law would be enacted soon to entrench that right.

But while three-month Saudi market rates have fallen more than 160 basis points in the past month as a result of policy responses, the three-month Emirates Interbank Offered Rate has held around 4.4 percent.

"No, we will not cut," UAE Central Bank Governor Sultan Nasser al-Suweidi told reporters in the UAE capital when asked if the country would match a likely Fed rate cut on Tuesday.

That would be the second time since late October the UAE refrains from mirroring the Fed. Its benchmark overnight repurchase rate is 1.5 percent and the Fed is likely to slash its key policy rate to 0.5 percent on Tuesday, according to analysts in a Reuters poll this month.

"The UAE benchmark lending rate is substantially below the lending rates of other GCC central banks ... and any cuts in the benchmark rate will have limited impact on reducing the interbank rate," EFG-Hermes said in a note on Tuesday.

The Gulf has massive infrastructure projects under way designed to diversify its economy away from relying on oil export revenues. Oil prices have tumbled more than $100 a barrel since hitting record levels above $147 a barrel in July.

Many of these projects are public-private partnerships -- but private investors are finding it difficult during the global credit crunch to access abundant and cheap funds.

"By bringing down both rates, SAMA is trying to force aggressively down the cost of borrowing for Saudi corporates," said John Sfakianakis, chief economist at SABB bank, HSBC's Saudi affiliate.

The three-month Saudi Interbank Offered Rate <SAIBOR=> fell to 3.02125 percent on Tuesday from 3.4425 percent on Monday.

SAMA's move should reduce the spread between LIBOR and SAIBOR which means the cost of borrowing will fall and the opportunity for arbitrage deals by Saudi banks declines. (Writing and additional reporting by Daliah Merzaban; Editing by Andy Bruce)
   RFGULF-INTERESTRATES/ (WRAPUP 2)|LANGEN|C|D|E|M|O|U|MTL|GRO|SOF|OIL|NAT|MD|GFN|RNP|DNP|PTD   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REsaarab : Saudi Arabia | uae : United Arab Emirates | usa : United States | asiaz : Asia | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | gulfstz : Persian Gulf Regions | meastz : Middle East | namz : North America | wasiaz : Western Asia   IPCCEN | MCE | PLCY | INT | MMT | DBT | FRX | FED   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020081216e4cg000rv  



 HDAP Financial NewsBrief at 6:43 p.m. EST   WC967 words   PD17 December 2008   ET00:43   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPTuesday, December 16, 2008

Fed reduces benchmark rate to as low as zero
   TDWASHINGTON (AP) -- The Federal Reserve, urgently rewriting its playbook to fight a deepening recession, cut its benchmark interest rate to as low as zero Tuesday, a surprisingly strong step that should make it cheaper for Americans to borrow on credit cards and pay their mortgages. Wells Fargo, Wachovia and U.S. Bancorp immediately lowered their prime lending rates from 4 percent to 3.25 percent, and other banks will probably follow suit. Economists cautioned, though, that people frightened by the economy and worried about their own jobs may not feel like taking on more debt.

Stocks surge as Fed pledges broad economic support

NEW YORK (AP) -- A surprised Wall Street bolted higher Tuesday after the Federal Reserve's historic decision to further slash interest rates and provide broad support to revive the troubled economy. The Dow Jones industrials surged 360 points, or 4.2 percent, and broader indexes jumped more than 5 percent after the central bank said it will use "all available tools" to jump-start the economy. It also set its target for the rate at which banks lend to each other to a range of zero to 0.25 percent, the lowest level on record.

Fed cuts target for key rate to record low

WASHINGTON (AP) -- The Federal Reserve has cut its target for a key interest rate to the lowest level on record and pledged to use "all available tools" to combat a severe financial crisis and prolonged recession. The central bank on Tuesday said it had reduced the federal funds rate, the interest that banks charge each other, to a range of zero to 0.25 percent. That is down from the 1 percent target rate in effect since the last meeting in October. Many analysts had expected the Fed to make a smaller cut to 0.5 percent.

White House pressed from right, left on car rescue

WASHINGTON (AP) -- Conservative Republicans admonished the White House Tuesday not to use bank-bailout billions to rescue distressed U.S. automakers, and a key Democrat demanded the government get veto power over the companies' business decisions as a condition of any aid. The Bush administration said it was still evaluating options and suggested any deal would require major concessions by all sides. Complicating its task, lawmakers in both parties -- having failed in their efforts to push a $14 billion auto rescue through a bailout-weary Congress -- were pressing for an array of terms and conditions they said should be part of any Plan B.

Were the regulators and the regulated too close?

WASHINGTON (AP) -- Financial wizard Bernard L. Madoff didn't just fool investors. He also conned the nation's top securities regulators, who investigated his business last year and apparently missed the fact that he was running a $50 billion Ponzi scheme. It wasn't the first time the Securities and Exchange Commission overlooked clear warning signs of possible fraud.

Goldman Sachs posts first loss since going public

NEW YORK (AP) -- Goldman Sachs Group Inc. on Tuesday reported its first quarterly loss since it went public in 1999, losing $2.29 billion during its fiscal fourth quarter, but investors seemed unfazed and sent its shares higher. The loss proves the turmoil in the financial markets has tripped up even the best-run financial institutions. The New York-based bank has long been considered the premier investment bank on Wall Street, and in recent quarters, the sturdiest amid the turmoil.

Adobe 4Q profit grows, revenue essentially flat

SAN JOSE, Calif. (AP) -- Adobe Systems Inc., best known for its Photoshop and Acrobat software, said Tuesday its fiscal fourth-quarter profit grew 11 percent, at the high end of the guidance it gave this month. The company also reaffirmed its outlook, sending its shares up more than 10 percent in after-hours trading.

Former Gen Re executive gets 2 years in prison

HARTFORD, Conn. (AP) -- The former chief executive of General Re Corp. was sentenced Tuesday to two years in prison and fined $200,000 for his role in a scheme that cost shareholders of American International Group Inc. more than $500 million. Ronald Ferguson, 66, of Fairfield, was convicted in February of conspiracy, securities fraud, mail fraud and making false statements to the Securities and Exchange Commission. He also must serve two years of supervised release after the prison time.

Crude sinks despite talk of OPEC production cuts

Oil prices fell Tuesday after OPEC powerhouse Saudi Arabia said oil production would be cut by 2 million barrels per day to stem declining crude prices. OPEC, expected to slash production levels Wednesday, has hinted that it may have to "shock" markets to stabilize prices. But oil traders and brokers appear to have expected talk of an even bigger cut.

Best Buy 3Q profit sinks, offers staff buyouts

MINNEAPOLIS (AP) -- Best Buy Co. Inc. , the nation's biggest consumer electronics retailer, said Tuesday that its third-quarter profit sank 77 percent as it faced dramatic changes in consumer spending. The company also said it will offer massive buyout packages to about 4,000 employees at its headquarters while slashing spending in a bid to cut costs, news that the sent the retailer's stock soaring.
   RF7   ARTtext/xml: D9543R581 | image/jpeg: 03886bb9-d7b0-4d65-94ce-1cdf5d3f2c3e | text/xml: D95439B00 | image/jpeg: 0b7787ee-bd60-4c9f-b090-6230ae56a753 | text/xml: D9541BAG0 | text/xml: D9543HN82 | image/jpeg: a2ae89c1-bd75-4745-92cc-de0431a63133 | text/xml: D9543AQG0 | image/jpeg: 8013349f-5052-4696-9d5c-69c370fa5db4 | text/xml: D9541OI80 | text/xml: D9543H1G1 | text/xml: D9543IG00 | image/jpeg: 4251a4a8-5374-4f11-ab0c-66e4014dd7c1 | text/xml: D9543S400 | image/jpeg: eec6f76e-1603-4828-aa9e-6b6d10916572 | text/xml: D953TJ780 | image/jpeg: dd3d4543-fe3b-47b2-8984-17569404b832      COstaban : US Bancorp (New)   INi814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagpf1finonl | sel----- | cata | 1337   IPDDomestic US | Financial NewsBrief | D9543S980   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020081216e4cg0062z  



 HDEuro rises on dollar to $1.4075 after Fed cuts rate   WC287 words   PD17 December 2008   ET09:41   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPFRANKFURT, Germany (AP) - The euro rose against the dollar Wednesday after the U.S. Federal Reserve cut its interest rate to an all-time low.

The 15-nation euro bought $1.4075 in European morning trading, up from $1.3976 late Tuesday in New York, after the U.S. Federal Reserve slashed its target interest rate to nearly zero and said it would take other unprecedented moves in an effort to battle a severe financial crisis. The euro had gone as high as $1.4148 late Tuesday, its highest point since Oct. 1.
   TDThe Fed on Tuesday announced that it was reducing its target for the federal funds rate to between zero and 0.25 percent, down from 1 percent, a level that was already the lowest target rate in a half-century.

Many analysts had expected the Fed to make a smaller cut to 0.5 percent.

Lower interest rates can weigh on currencies as investors seek higher returns elsewhere.

"The (Fed) verdict last night is arguably what everyone was looking out for and the Fed certainly didn't disappoint with its pre-Christmas extravaganza, culling 75 basis points from borrowing costs and taking the headline rate down to just 0.25 percent," James Hughes, a currency analyst at CMC Markets, said.

"This clearly hadn't been priced into markets with the dollar tumbling as a result."

In other currencies, the British pound rose sharply, buying $1.5644 Wednesday morning from $1.5469, while the dollar fell to 88.65 Japanese yen from 89.35 late Tuesday in New York. The dollar bottomed at 88.16 yen Friday, its lowest point since August 1995.
   RF7   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | eec : European Union | e1202 : Interest Rates | e52 : Euro Zone/Currency | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations   REeurz : Europe | gfr : Germany | usa : United States | eecz : European Union Countries | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe   IPCtagpf1finonl | sel----- | catf | 1310   IPDFinancial/Business | EU Euro Dollar | D954BOE00   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020081217e4ch001bb  



 HDShares of mining companies advance on news of  Federal Reserve  cut in key  interest rate    WC286 words   PD16 December 2008   ET21:11   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPDENVER (AP) - Shares of mining companies advanced Tuesday after the Federal Reserve cut its target for a key interest rate to the lowest level on record.

The federal funds rate, the interest that banks charge each other, was cut to a range of zero to 0.25 percent. That is down from the 1 percent target rate in effect since the last meeting in October.
   TDBanks will move to match the change, which means the cut will push down borrowing costs for millions of consumer and business loans and hopefully boost economic growth.

Some mining companies, such as Freeport-McMoRan Copper and Gold Inc., have delayed projects, cut costs and laid off workers because of the recession, which has created a pullback in spending worldwide.

Gold mining companies, however, have benefited as investors have pulled money out of the stock market and purchased gold bars and small coins.

At midafternoon, shares of Arch Coal Inc. rose 68 cents, or 4.8 percent, to $16.24; Consol Energy Inc., up 42 cents, or 1.3 percent, at $29.81; Massey Energy, up 66 cents, or 4.7 percent, to $14.63 and Peabody Energy Corp., up 70 cents, or 2.9 percent, at $24.75.

Shares of Barrick Gold Corp., the world's largest gold producer, rose $1.37, or 4 percent, to $34.29; Newmont Mining Corp., the second largest producer, rose $1.24, or 3.3 percent, to $38.94 and Goldcorp Inc., up $1.59, 5.4 percent, to $30.93.

Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc.'s shares rose $1.16, or 5 percent, to $23.67.
   RF7   COashcoa : Arch Coal Inc | concol : CONSOL Energy Inc | fmcc : Freeport McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc   INi1 : Energy | i111 : Coal Mining | i211 : Metal Ore Mining | imet : Metals/Mining   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | m11 : Equity Markets | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusco : Colorado | namz : North America | usa : United States | usw : Western U.S.   IPCtagpf1finonl | sel----- | catf | 1333   IPDFinancial/Business | Mining Sector Snap | D9540OR00   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020081216e4cg005nt  



 HDAs interest rates plunge, borrowers rush to refinance _ but not everyone can take advantage   BYBy ALAN ZIBEL      CRAP Real Estate Writer   WC981 words   PD18 December 2008   ET00:31   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPTony Jabon had an e-mail in to his mortgage broker by 10 a.m.

The 35-year-old environmental consultant in Charlotte, N.C., had heard about the Federal Reserve's decision to cut its key interest rate to nearly zero and wanted to refinance to something lower than 5.5 percent.
   TDWithin hours, he had locked in a rate of about 4.6 percent. He'll save about $160 on his monthly payment. "Any time you can save a dollar," he said, "why not?"

Homeowners across the country did the same Wednesday. Mortgage brokers reported a surge of calls from borrowers seeking to take advantage of the Fed's extraordinary decision. Some brokers were quoting mortgage rates of close to 4.5 percent for people with strong credit and hefty down payments.

The national average rate on 30-year, fixed mortgages was 5.06 percent on Wednesday, according to financial publisher HSH Associates -- the lowest since the 1960s and down from 5.3 percent Tuesday.

"This is beautiful, oh my gosh!" said Patti Mazzara, a mortgage broker in the Minneapolis suburb of Edina, who was surprised when she looked up rates and found them well below 5 percent, down at least three-quarters of a percentage point from earlier in the week. "This is a whole new game now. Hopefully it's going to give people some relief."

The Fed, aiming to free up lending and jolt the economy back to life, cut the federal funds rate Tuesday from 1 percent to a target range of zero to 0.25 percent and pledged to keep funneling money into the market for mortgage investments.

It was the best news in months for anyone looking to lock in a 30-year, fixed-rate mortgage. But it was not expected to be a cure-all, and borrowers already in danger of foreclosure probably won't be able to take advantage.

"It's a call to action for homeowners looking to get out of adjustable-rate mortgages," said Greg McBride, senior financial analyst at Bankrate.com. "Unfortunately, it's not an equal-opportunity party."

Even Wall Street, which pushed the Dow industrials up 360 points after the Fed announcement Tuesday, tempered its enthusiasm on Wednesday. The Dow finished down about 100 points.

An estimated 12 million Americans owe more on their home loans than their houses' current value, unemployment is still rising quickly, and foreclosures are soaring.

For people whose home values have plunged, "I could have a 1 percent interest rate, but it wouldn't help them," said Michael Maynard, a mortgage broker in Branford, Conn.

"People losing their homes aren't losing their homes because they can't get a 6 percent mortgage," Maynard said. "They're not qualifying at all."

In Charlotte, Jabon's mortgage broker, Will Mullinix, said that while rates that low are "pretty unprecedented," the best deals are available only to borrowers with pristine credit who are taking out loans for under 80 percent of their house's current value.

"All the stars have to align," Mullinix said.

And economists expect falling rates to provide only a modest boost to home sales, especially as unemployment worsens amid what could be the longest economic downturn since the Great Depression.

"People tend to be more inclined to buy a house when they're confident about their employment and income prospects," said Wachovia Corp. economist Mark Vitner.

Besides lowering the interest on fixed-rate mortgages, rates should come down on adjustable-rate home equity loans. Those are tied to the prime rate, and prime rates came down immediately after the Fed move Tuesday.

The Federal Reserve also plans to buy up mortgage debt and is considering buying long-term Treasury bonds that are closely tied to mortgage rates, so analysts expect rates to drop even further.

"We're going to see just a massive refinancing boom," said Mark Zandi, chief economist at Moody's Economy.com, who estimates that up to 10 million U.S. borrowers, or about one in five Americans with a mortgage, could wind up refinancing.

Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid said Wednesday that some of the $700 billion financial bailout should spent to aid borrowers in danger of losing their homes.

"We've given enough big checks to these banks. Let's do something to help foreclosures," he said in a conference call with reporters.

President-elect Barack Obama's advisers were weighing an economic recovery plan that could cost as much as $1 trillion over two years. The figure is far bigger than the $600 billion that Obama's team initially envisioned.

Mortgage applications rose about 3 percent last week, but are still below highs for the year reached in early February, the last time rates were attractive enough to cause refinancings to surge.

For homeowners who haven't been able to sell their houses, the lower rates represent an opportunity to at least save some money. And if they have enough equity in their homes, they can still pull out money to make improvements -- albeit at a higher interest rate.

Lisa Wallwork, 37, and her husband, Shawn, are in the process of refinancing the mortgage on the house they've owned for five years in Tolland, Conn. They pulled it off the market in September after their house didn't sell for more than a year.

"We wanted to move up to a bigger and better house," she said.

Instead, the couple are refinancing their $185,000 mortgage, pulling out equity to remodel their kitchen and getting a new front door. And they still expect to save up to $300 a month in the process.

------

Associated Press Writers Joshua Freed, Christopher S. Rugaber, Stephen Singer and Erica Werner contributed to this report.
   RF7   INi81501 : Credit Types/Services | i8150103 : Mortgages/Real Estate Credit | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe1122 : Mortgage Applications/Refinancing | e1202 : Interest Rates | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagpf1apon | sel----- | cata | 1310   IPDDomestic US | Financial Meltdown | D954OPGO0   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020081217e4ch000s7  



 SEBusiness   HDBernanke's Fed, Echoing FDR, Pursues Ideas and Action   BYBy Jon Hilsenrath    WC977 words   PD15 December 2008   SNThe Wall Street Journal (Online and Print)   SCWSJO   PGEconomy; A2   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2008 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
   LPWhile Ben Bernanke was teaching economics at Princeton University in late 1999, he admonished officials in Japan for doing too little to get their country out of its economic funk. Their model, he said, should be Franklin D. Roosevelt.

"Roosevelt's specific actions were, I think, less important than his willingness to be aggressive and to experiment -- in short, to do whatever was necessary to get the country moving again," Mr. Bernanke said in a paper on Japan's paralysis.
   TDNearly a decade later, Mr. Bernanke, now the Federal Reserve chairman, is trying to follow his own advice.

Fed officials on Monday begin two days of meetings to deliberate on the course of U.S. monetary policy at a critical juncture. The central bank's target interest rate, at 1%, is widely expected to be reduced, but doesn't have room to go much lower. That means Mr. Bernanke needs to use other options at his disposal -- most notably his ability to lend and buy assets -- to lift the economy and bolster damaged markets, something the Fed is likely to signal a willingness to do.

In many ways, Mr. Roosevelt is his model, because Mr. Bernanke is undertaking a bold and very risky experiment with the nation's central bank to get the U.S. economy moving again. In the process, the Fed's reach is extending further into the financial system.

One of the key lessons Mr. Bernanke drew from years as an academic studying the Great Depression and Japan was that policy makers made matters worse by tarrying and by being constrained by convention. He sees them as mistakes he is determined not to repeat.

"Working together with the Treasury, the [Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.] and other agencies, we must take all steps necessary to minimize systemic risk," he said in a speech earlier this month, echoing his advice to Japan.

One buzz word inside the Fed these days is "blue sky," a term meant to encourage Fed economists and other staffers to come up with ideas beyond their normal boundaries.

At the New York Fed, where many of the central bank's programs are being implemented, the once-quiet markets desk has been divided into "SWAT" teams to get programs up and running.

"I call it the Great Experiment," said Vincent Reinhart, a former Fed staffer who co-authored papers with Mr. Bernanke on how to manage policy when interest rates get near zero.

In normal times, central bankers live in a rules-bound world, seeking to confine themselves to narrow, easily defined goals far from political influence. For the most part, they set their eyes on a level of inflation, and seek to use one instrument -- short-term interest rates -- to keep near the goal. Some, like the Fed, also try to keep unemployment low.

But experimentation is now the order of the day. The Fed already has rolled out nearly a dozen new programs aimed at rescuing failing institutions and specific troubled markets. Through its rescue of American International Group Inc., it is even buying assets at the core of the financial meltdown -- collateralized debt obligations -- which AIG has promised to insure but can't afford to do so.

The Fed's balance sheet has grown to more than $2 trillion, and because of its ability to print money to fund these programs, it could grow further still.

One of the Fed's next big projects is a program to backstop the asset-backed securities market, which finances auto, credit-card and student loans. It will be launched in February and Fed officials see potential in it to be expanded to other asset classes, such as commercial real estate.

Mr. Bernanke's choices could damage several objectives that the Fed holds sacrosanct. Low interest rates and an exploding balance sheet could some day cause inflation. With so much slack in the economy and commodities prices tumbling, that looks like a far-fetched risk today. But the Fed's novel new lending programs could be difficult to unwind quickly if the economy turns around unexpectedly, potentially leaving the financial system with more stimulus than it needs -- along with inflation.

Mr. Reinhart notes that Mr. Bernanke's approach also could open the Fed to political intrusion, something central bankers have fought for decades to avoid.

The recent debate about an auto-industry bailout was one example of the risk. Earlier this month, Sen. Christopher Dodd wrote to Mr. Bernanke asking if the central bank could help Detroit. Mr. Bernanke politely responded that he wanted to stay out of industrial policy. But after Senate action failed, the Connecticut Democrat raised the prospect of Fed involvement again at a news conference Friday.

"When the Federal Reserve is involved in more markets, more instruments and is seen to have an unlimited balance sheet and flexibility to use that balance sheet, it will be subject to political pressure," Mr. Reinhart said.

Moreover, Mr. Bernanke's activist approach could expose the central bank to losses on loans it has made. The loans are all secured in one way or another, and Fed officials said losses are unlikely. But in October, six months after taking on $29 billion from investment bank Bear Stearns' loan portfolio, the Fed decided to write down $2 billion of the holdings.

Then there's the biggest risk of all: the economy might not turn around. History was kind to Mr. Roosevelt because the economy got moving again on his watch, though of course it didn't really turn around until the U.S. became enmeshed in a world war. Mr. Bernanke will be a hero if the economy rebounds. But if it doesn't, the judgment is certain to be much tougher.

Write to Jon Hilsenrath at jon.hilsenrath@wsj.com 
   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | effund : Federal Funds Rate | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | ecat : Economic News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | jap : Japan | asiaz : Asia | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America   IPDThe Outlook   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument WSJO000020091007e4cf00mje  



 SEMarkets   HDAt Fed's 2-Day Meeting, Target Rate Could Be Sliced to Near Zero   BYBy Deborah Lynn Blumberg    WC557 words   PD15 December 2008   SNThe Wall Street Journal (Online and Print)   SCWSJO   PGMarkets; C3   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2008 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
   LPThe Federal Reserve is expected this week to cut the fed-funds target rate to levels not seen in decades, but that is unlikely to impress Treasury-market investors.

Instead, as rates approach zero while financing costs in the broader economy remain high, investors will await any word from central bankers about other efforts to help heal the economy and credit markets.
   TDThe market expects the Fed to cut its key lending rate to 0.50%. But, more important, investors want to know whether there "are more aggressive quantitative moves soon to come, or are they further down the road," said Rick Klingman, managing director of Treasury trading at BNP Paribas in New York.

The Fed is scheduled to meet Monday and Tuesday, with its interest-rate decision coming Tuesday at 2:15 p.m. EST.

Aware that its scope to cut interest rates is limited, the Fed already has tiptoed into the arena of quantitative easing, essentially printing money and using the cash to fund lending.

This month, it started to buy debt sold by federally chartered mortgage-finance companies to help drive mortgage rates down. The last central bank to engage in these types of policies was the Bank of Japan earlier this decade.

"Conventional monetary-policy measures have been deployed without the desired effects on the real economy," said Citi Global Wealth Management Chief Investment Officer Jeff Applegate. "Quantitative easing is a crucial component in the multifaceted campaign to normalize the credit markets and ultimately spur the next recovery in economic activity."

Any allusions to such efforts -- in particular any reiteration of comments made by Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke this month that the Fed could buy longer-term Treasury or agency debt on the open market -- would likely add to the Treasury-buying spree that market participants already envision continuing into the end of the year.

Chris Ahrens, rates strategist at UBS Securities, said buying Treasurys may not actually lower the cost of borrowing for consumers.

That is more likely to be achieved by the Federal Reserve's plan to buy $500 billion in mortgage-backed securities, announced earlier this month and set to start by the end of the year.

"The more targeted their approach is specifically to address the problem of deterioration in housing assets, the better the results will be," Mr. Ahrens said. "The more they broaden out, the more they'll have unintended consequences."

No matter what the Fed discloses, the rally in government debt is expected to continue until year's end, driven by recession fears and year-end buying. At year end, market participants typically rush into government debt in an effort to tidy up their books.

Since mid-November, investors' penchant for Treasurys has continued to take yields, which move inversely to prices, to historic lows. The yield on the three-month Treasury bill briefly turned negative this week, highlighting market participants' desire to keep money safe.

Such buying pushed two-year yields to an intraday historic low of 0.66% Friday, ending at 0.785%. The 10-year Treasury note's yield briefly touched a 45-year low of 2.47% before ending at 2.590%.

Write to Deborah Lynn Blumberg at deborah.blumberg@dowjones.com 
   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | mntdbt : National Government Debt/Bond Markets | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | ecat : Economic News | m131 : Money Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPDRick Klingman | Jeff Applegate | Chris Ahrens | Credit Markets   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument WSJO000020091007e4cf00lq9  



 HDTOPWRAP 1-Fed set to halve rates; Japan, China may act too   WC1,011 words   PD16 December 2008   ET07:43   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited   
   LP * Fed expected to halve rates, signal unorthodox steps

 * BOJ seen pumping money, China rate cut flagged
   TD * Goldman quarterly loss expected

 * Asian stocks dip, exporters hit by weaker dollar  (For full crisis coverage, double click on)

 By Mary Milliken and Tomasz Janowski

 NEW YORK/SINGAPORE, Dec 16 (Reuters) - The U.S. Federal Reserve looks set to halve interest rates close to zero on Tuesday and China signalled it may cut its rates again in a global drive to contain the worst financial crisis in 80 years.

 Central bankers return to centre stage in an action packed week that started on a sour note with a rescue plan for U.S. carmakers stuck in limbo, reverberations of an alleged multibillion financial fraud and a collapse in Japanese business sentiment.

 Still to come is the possibility that the Bush administration could approve a bailout for the automakers as early as Wednesday, results from Goldman Sachs, which may report on Tuesday its first quarterly loss as a publicly traded company, and a Bank of Japan policy meeting.

 The Federal Reserve is expected to cut its benchmark rate to 0.5 percent, its lowest in more than half a century, and to promise to dip into its toolbox for less conventional tools to pull the world's biggest economy out of recession.

 In Japan, where rates are already at an ultra-low 0.3 percent and the economy is possibly poised for its longest ever slump, the finance minister urged the central bank to also take unorthodox steps to ease a funding crunch faced by Japanese companies.

 Bank of Japan holds its policy meeting on Thursday and Friday and there is some market speculation it may cut interest rates after it reported the biggest crash in business sentiment in three decades.

 But the Nikkei newspaper said many within the central bank were reluctant to drive rates any lower and wanted to wait for the effects of the last cut in October, of just 0.2 percentage point, to work their way through the economy.

 STRAINS

 The severity of the global downturn set off by a U.S. sub-prime mortgage market meltdown last year surprised policymakers, who have been running out of options after slashing rates to historic lows and rushing out massive stimulus plans.

 Economists now expect the Federal Reserve to acknowledge it will have to resort to direct purchases of government and mortgage-related debt and possibly massive money injections of the sort Japan used in the 1990s to revive its deflation-ridden economy.

 In Japan, media reported that the central bank is considering buying commercial paper directly from companies to ease their financing strains.

 Among the world's top economies only China has avoided recession, but it risks a sharp slowdown that may feel like one, and the authorities in Beijing are scrambling to engineer a soft landing with a mix of massive government spending and interest rate cuts.

 Central bank governor Zhou Xiaochuan on Tuesday left the door open to more easing after China slashed its rates by more than a full percentage point last month, saying it would depend on inflation in the months ahead.

 The International Monetary Fund said on Monday Chinese growth could almost halve next year to between 5 and 6 percent, well below the 8 percent rate widely regarded as a level of growth needed to provide jobs for millions of migrant workers and avoid social unrest.

 Asian shares tracked Wall Street lower, with the weakening of the dollar in anticipation of the Fed cut and subsequent yen strengthening hurting Japanese exporters such as Honda Motor.

 "While an additional rate cut by the Fed is widely expected, market reaction to the cut is still very much uncertain, as another cut means the Fed is left with one less card to offer," said Lim Tae-gun, an analyst at Daewoo Securities in Seoul.

 Tokyo's Nikkei Average was down 0.9 percent, though shares in Seoul edged up, as carmakers gained on hopes the White House will engineer a rescue for the troubled "Big Three" carmakers.

 CAR MAKERS STRUGGLE

 President George W. Bush on Monday dashed hopes that the White House would quickly announce an alternative plan to the $14 billion bailout killed in the U.S. Senate on Friday. But sources told Reuters later the Bush administration could approve an automaker bailout from its bank rescue fund as early as Wednesday.

 Investors fear that the domino effect of the collapse of U.S. carmakers would hit companies all along the supply chain, wiping out millions of jobs in the United States and around the world and dealing another body blow to the struggling industry.

 U.S., Japanese, German and French carmakers have been slashing earning forecasts and jobs in the face of a slump in world wide demand.

 Japan's Toyota Motor Corp, the world's biggest auto maker, said weaker demand had prompted it to suspect a project with truck maker Isuzu Motors to develop diesel engines and the Nikkei reported it was pushing for cheaper steel prices from supplier Nippon Steel Corp.

 On Monday, Toyota said it was putting on hold indefinitely work on a new car plant in the United States.

 There was no reprieve for banks either.

 The industry, whose heavy losses from toxic U.S. housing debt set off the spiral of financial turmoil that escalated into a full-blown global economic downturn, made headlines again due to several banks' exposure to an alleged $50 billion Wall Street fraud by investor Bernard Madoff.

 Among those affected were Britain's HSBC Holdings Plc, Royal Bank of Scotland and Man Group, Japan's Nomura Holdings and France's Natixis SA.

 No major U.S. banks have said they were exposed, but the Madoff scandal did take a toll on U.S. stocks along with worries about bank profits.  (Reporting by Reuters bureaus worldwide; Writing by Tomasz Janowski; Editing by Neil Fullick)  
   RFFINANCIAL/ (TOPWRAP 1, TV, PIX)|LANGEN|GNN|DNP   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News   REchina : China | jap : Japan | usa : United States | asiaz : Asia | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020081216e4cg000js  



 SEBusiness   HDU.S. Aims to Rein In Credit-Card Rates   BYBy Damian Paletta    WC768 words   PD15 December 2008   SNThe Wall Street Journal (Online and Print)   SCWSJO   PGEconomy; A3   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2008 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
   LPWASHINGTON -- U.S. federal regulators are poised to adopt tough restrictions to make it harder for credit-card companies to raise interest rates on millions of existing customers, reversing decades of light regulation of the industry.

The new standards, expected to be issued Thursday, would represent the biggest changes to the industry in a generation and will apply to more than 16,000 companies, including major credit-card issuers Citigroup Inc., Bank of America Corp., J.P. Morgan Chase &Co. and Capital One Financial Corp.
   TDThe new standards come as U.S. consumers are caught in a deepening economic recession in which access to credit, from student and business loans to home-equity lines, has been constrained. For many, credit cards are considered the easiest type of short-term loan to obtain from a bank.

The standards are expected to alter the types of products offered. Banks might be less willing to offer cards with low introductory rates that could be harder to change. Banks might also try to raise rates for many new customers to compensate for any lost income.

"We think it's really going to mark the beginning of the new marketplace for credit cards," said Edward Yingling, chief executive of the American Bankers Association, the industry's biggest trade group. "It will in some fundamental ways change the product."

The most controversial new policy is expected to prohibit banks from raising interest rates on existing card balances as long as a customer doesn't fall more than 30 days behind on payments. Industry officials have estimated the new rules could cost banks $12 billion in annual revenue.

The Federal Reserve, Office of Thrift Supervision and National Credit Union Administration, which drafted the rules, are also expected to require that banks give customers a "reasonable" amount of time to make payments and prevent banks from raising a customer's interest rate if the person has fallen behind paying other bills, among other things.

Bankers and consumer advocates will closely watch how narrowly regulators define the "reasonable" standard, which could spark debate over how onerous the rules are supposed to be.

The new rules, which refer to credit cards, not charge cards, won't require congressional approval and are expected to take effect by mid-2010.

Credit cards are a major source of income for banks and of credit for consumers. The Fed said U.S. banks had $976.1 billion of revolving debt outstanding at the end of October, a number that comprises mostly credit-card debt. These products are often controversial, and regulators hear thousands of complaints each year, typically related to late fees and interest-rate increases. The Fed said 4.9% of all credit cards were delinquent at the end of the third quarter, the highest level since the end of 2002.

The central bank had never used its powers in this area to ban certain credit-card practices before, and was under enormous pressure from Democrats in Congress after years of running a hands-off approach to consumer regulation. Last December, it banned certain mortgage practices that many believe contributed to the financial crisis.

Shortly after warnings from Capitol Hill, Fed officials began drawing up new rules. The central bank recently hired consumer advocate Allen Fishbein to serve as an adviser in its division of consumer and community affairs. Mr. Fishbein spent years working at the Consumer Federation of America arguing for tough consumer protection rules.

Credit-card companies in recent months have raised interest rates on certain cards to offset losses in other areas. Citigroup, which has 54 million active accounts, began notifying some customers recently that their interest rates were going up by an average of three percentage points. American Express also announced plans to raise rates on some customers by two to three percentage points on an annual basis.

Depending on whether the increases apply to existing balances, such action could be limited or banned by the new rules.

The Fed received more than 60,000 comment letters on the proposal, a record number for any regulatory proposal. Most were from consumers complaining about their credit cards.

The most significant change between the pending rules and a proposal in May was the government's decision not to enact specific rules related to fees that customers are charged when they overdraw their bank account. Regulators want more time to study this issue, people familiar with the matter said.

Jane J. Kim contributed to this article.

Write to Damian Paletta at damian.paletta@wsj.com 
   COcnyc : JPMorgan Chase & Co. | cptone : Capital One Financial Corp | ncnbco : Bank of America Corporation | ccred : Citigroup Inc.   INi814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | i81501 : Credit Types/Services | i8150108 : Credit Cards | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSc131 : Regulatory Bodies | gcon : Consumer Affairs | gfraud : Fraud | ecat : Economic News | c12 : Corporate Crime/Legal/Judicial | c132 : Standards/Standardization | e1202 : Interest Rates | c13 : Regulation/Government Policy | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | gcat : Political/General News | gcrim : Crime/Courts | gfinc : Financial Crime | glife : Living/Lifestyle | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPDEconomy   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument WSJO000020091007e4cf00kqd  



 CLMToday's Markets   SEMarkets   HDStocks, Dollar in the Red; Fed Meeting, Wall Street Earnings Hang Over Markets   BYBy Peter A. McKay    WC914 words   PD16 December 2008   ET01:44   SNThe Wall Street Journal (Online and Print)   SCWSJO   PGMarkets; C1   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2008 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
   LPInvestors are holding off on any year-end shopping spree for now.

Financial names led the stock market lower and the dollar sank as market participants looked ahead to the interest-rate decision due from the Federal Reserve on Tuesday. Investors also digested a mix of other developments. Most were downbeat, including new data on manufacturing activity and analyst downgrades of several bellwether companies.
   TDThe Dow Jones Industrial Average, which fell 0.1% last week, ended down 0.8% on Monday, off 65.15 points, at 8564.53, hurt by declines in all its financial names. The weakest was J.P. Morgan Chase, which tumbled 7.5% after being downgraded to an "underperform" rating from "neutral" by Merrill Lynch analyst Guy Moszkowski, who cited near-term pressure on earnings due to a worsening outlook for everyday consumers.

Bank of America slid 5.5% after dismissing about 20 high-ranking executives.

Earnings reports due over the next two days from Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley will also be closely watched for hints of how much longer write-downs, layoffs, and other pain will last in the financial industry. Goldman shares were down 1.9%, while Morgan Stanley was off 1.5%.

"We think the market is shaping up for a quieter end of the year," said David Chalupnik, head of equity trading at FAF Advisors. "You have a lot of forced selling by hedge funds that's out of the way now, which takes a lot of pressure off. They seem to have raised the cash they'll need for year-end redemptions."

Cantor Fitzgerald strategist Marc Pado said that individual investors and money managers have also been doing some last-minute fine tuning of their portfolios lately, repositioning themselves for early 2009 ahead of next week's holiday-shortened trading. "We're seeing some selling in names that have done well this year and buying in names that have done terribly," he said.

The S&P 500 ended down 1.3% at 868.57, led by a 3.6% decline in its financial sector. All its other categories finished lower as well, except for health care and consumer staples, which each rose a fraction of a percent. Both are traditional safe-haven plays.

The small-stock Rusell 2000 tumbled 3.4% to 452.57.

The dollar fell against the euro, Japanese yen, and British pound as Fed officials gathered in Washington for a two-day meeting. The U.S. Dollar Index, which tracks the greenback's value against a basket of six rivals, was down 2%.

The Fed's interest-rate meeting is likely to result in a half-point cut of the central bank's key rate to 0.5% from 1%. Rate cuts spur economic growth but they also effectively increase the supply of dollars sloshing through the global economy -- a phenomenon that tends to push the greenback's value lower against foreign denominations.

A pair of new big-picture reports on the manufacturing sector underscored how deep the U.S. economy's woes have been lately. The Fed reported that the country's industrial production decreased 0.6% compared with the month before. Over the 12 months ending in November, industrial production was 5.5% lower. A separate report by the Fed's New York branch showed its Empire Manufacturing Survey fell to a record low in December.

"The manufacturing sector is flat on its back," said Joel Naroff, president of Naroff Economic Advisors. "This was a very weak report and clearly shows that firms are adjusting rapidly and sharply to the economic slowdown."

Anticipation of a rate cut by the Fed to boost the sagging economy sent the cost of borrowing U.S. dollars in the interbank market lower. Data from the British Bankers' Association showed three-month U.S. dollar Libor dropping to 1.87125% from Friday's fixing of 1.92125%, the lowest since Sept. 2004. The rate peaked at 4.81875% on Oct. 10.

Treasury prices rose and yields fell. The two-year note edged up 1/32 to yield 0.754%. The benchmark 10-year note climbed 10/32 to yield 2.540%. The 30-year bond rose 1-7/32 to yield 2.993%.

General Motors rose 3.6% to $4.08 a share and Ford rose 4.6% to $3.18 a share as investors awaited further news on a bailout package for U.S. auto makers. The Treasury Department said Monday that no decisions have been made on a rescue deal.

Apple shares fell 3.6% after being downgrade to a "neutral" rating from a "buy" by Goldman Sachs. The decline weighed on the technology-focused Nasdaq Composite Index, which fell 2.1% to 1508.34.

The Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index, a measure of investor nervousness based on options prices, was up 4.7% to 56.83. Options on individual stocks and major indexes are due to expire Friday, which traders believe may cause the market to swing throughout the week.

Oil prices fell despite widespread anticipation that the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries will announce a large production cut at its meeting this week. Crude futures were down $1.77, or 3.8%, at $44.51 a barrel in New York.

Jeff Bater contributed to this article.

Write to Peter A. McKay at peter.mckay@wsj.com .
   NSc1522 : Share Price Movement/Disruptions | c1521 : Analyst Comment/Recommendation | e1202 : Interest Rates | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | c15 : Performance | c152 : Earnings Projections | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPDToday's Markets   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument WSJO000020091008e4cg005sb  



 HDFed cuts target for key rate to record low   WC698 words   PD16 December 2008   ET21:48   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPWASHINGTON (AP) - The Federal Reserve has cut its target for a key interest rate to the lowest level on record and pledged to use "all available tools" to combat a severe financial crisis and prolonged recession.

The central bank on Tuesday said it had reduced the federal funds rate, the interest that banks charge each other, to a range of zero to 0.25 percent. That is down from the 1 percent target rate in effect since the last meeting in October. Many analysts had expected the Fed to make a smaller cut to 0.5 percent.
   TDThe Fed's aggressive move was greeted enthusiastically by Wall Street. The Dow Jones industrial average rose more than 350 points in late afternoon trading.

The Fed's action and statement made clear that economic conditions have worsened since its last meeting in October.

Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke and his colleagues said they will use unconventional methods to try to contain a financial crisis that is the worst since the 1930s and a recession that is already the longest in a quarter-century. For example, the Fed last month said it planned to purchase up to $600 billion in direct debt and mortgage-backed securities issued by big financial players including Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac in an effort to boost the availability of mortgage loans.

That move was one of a series the central bank has taken to increase its loans by hundreds of billions of dollars as a way to deal with the worst financial crisis to hit the country in more than 70 years.

The Fed on Tuesday also made clear that it intends to keep the funds rate at extremely low levels.

"The committee anticipates that weak economic conditions are likely to warrant exceptionally low levels of the federal funds rate for some time," the central bank's panel that sets interest rates said in a statement.

Even before the announcement of a lower target, the funds rate has been trading well below the old target of 1 percent. For November, the funds rate had averaged 0.39 percent. Analysts said it was likely to fall further with the Fed setting the new target as low as zero.

The Fed's decision was matched by a reduction in the prime lending rate, the benchmark rate for millions of business and consumer loans. Banking giant Wells Fargo and Co. said it was cutting its prime rate to 3.25 percent, down from 4 percent before the Fed action. Other banks are expected to quickly match Wells Fargo's move.

The Fed has never pushed its target for the federal funds rate as low as zero to 0.25 percent. The lowest target rate before had been 1 percent, a level seen only once before in the past half-century.

Given how low interest rates are, the central bank said it planned to use a variety of unconventional methods to flood the banking system with credit and drive interest rates lower.

"The Federal Reserve will employ all available tools to promote the resumption of sustainable economic growth and to preserve price stability," the Fed said.

The announcement on the deployment of unconventional methods had been expected given that Bernanke and other Fed officials have sought in recent comments to let financial markets know that the central bank will not be out of ammunition to battle the economic downturn even with the funds rate at such low levels.

In its statement Tuesday, the Fed said that since its last meeting in late October, "labor market conditions have deteriorated, and the available data indicate that consumer spending, business investment and industrial production have declined. Financial markets remain quite strained and credit conditions tight."

The central bank acknowledged that it had room to battle the economic weakness because inflation pressures have "diminished appreciably" as the price of energy and other commodities has fallen sharply.

The Fed action came only hours after the government announced that consumer prices dropped by a record amount of 1.7 percent in November, reflecting a record decline in the price of gasoline and other energy products.
   RF5   NSe11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPCtagpf1wcat | sel----- | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | NA US Fed Interest Rates | D9541A880   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020081216e4cg005kr  



 HD Federal Reserve  weighs slashing rates to cushion economic damage   WC550 words   PD15 December 2008   ET21:14   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPWASHINGTON (AP) - The Federal Reserve is widely expected to ratchet down a key interest rate -- perhaps to an all-time low-- to prevent the sinking economy from falling deeper into the doldrums.

Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke and his colleagues opened a two-day meeting Monday afternoon to take a fresh pulse on the ailing economy, which has been mired in a recession since last December, and to decide their next move on interest rates.
   TDFighting the worst financial crisis since the 1930s, the Fed already has pushed down its main lever for influencing the economy -- the federal funds rate -- to 1 percent, a level seen only once before in the last half-century.

Many economists predict the Fed will cut its rate in half -- to just 0.50 percent when the session wraps up on Tuesday. A few think the Fed could opt for an even more forceful action -- lowering rates by a whopping three-quarters percentage point or more. If that larger cut occurs, it would be the lowest on records that track the monthly average of the funds rate going back to 1954. The funds rate is the interest banks charge each other on overnight loans.

"Another rate cut is like trying to provide a safety net for an economy that is in a free fall," said Richard Yamarone, an economist at Argus Research.

However deeply the Fed decides to cut rates, the prime rate -- now at 4 percent -- for many consumer and small-business loans would drop by a corresponding amount. The prime lending rate is used to peg rates on home equity loans, certain credit cards and other consumer loans. Cheaper rates could give pinched borrowers a dose of relief.

The goal of lower borrowing costs is to entice people and businesses to spend more, which would revive the economy. So far, though, the Fed's aggressive rate reductions have failed to turn the economy around.

Walloped by the financial crisis, worried banks have hoarded their cash and been extremely reluctant to lend money to customers. Fearful consumers, watching jobs vanish and their investments tank, have sharply cut back their spending, including big-ticket purchases like homes and cars that typically involve financing.

The negative forces fed off each other, creating a vicious cycle that Bernanke and Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson have been desperately trying to break.

The Fed can lower the fund rate only so far -- to zero, and is getting closer to exhausting its rate-reduction ammunition. However, Bernanke has made clear the Fed has other tools available to stimulate the economy.

For example, the Fed could buy longer-term Treasury or agency securities on the open market in substantial quantities. This might lower rates on these securities and help spur buying appetites.

A Fed program announced late last month to buy $600 billion in debt and mortgage-backed securities from mortgage giants Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac already has helped pushed mortgage rates down.

By boosting the quantity of money in the financial system, the Fed has engaged in so-called "quantitative easing" to provide economic relief. The Fed's balance sheet has ballooned to $2.2 trillion, from close to $900 billion in September, reflecting efforts to mend the financial system.
   RF7   INi81501 : Credit Types/Services | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagpf1apon | sel----- | catw | 1310   IPDWashington | Fed Interest Rates | D953BN801   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020081215e4cf0043n  



 HDFed move puts rates paid by consumers on sale, too   WC1,006 words   PD17 December 2008   ET06:26   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPNEW YORK (AP) - The price of money for American consumers went on sale in a spectacular way after the Federal Reserve cut interest rates to their lowest level on record and promised to keep them low for a long time.

In response, most banks cut the rate they charge their best customers, known as the prime rate, to 3.25 percent from 4 percent. The last time it was that low was in 1955, according to data from the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis.
   TDIn short order, the move is expected to lead to lower rates on existing adjustable-rate home equity loans tied to the prime rate. Federal Reserve statistics show that commercial banks hold $580 billion in revolving home equity loans on their balance sheets.

Analysts said mortgage rates may also tumble to 5 percent or lower, from the current average of 5.3 percent on Tuesday, as a result of the Fed's rate cut and its renewed pledge to buy up billions of dollars of mortgage debt. With rates that low, a new boom in refinancing is expected.

Taken together, these moves could put billions of welcome and unexpected dollars into the pockets of consumers at a time when a recession has zapped American's will to spend.

That was one of the prime reasons why Fed policymakers on Tuesday cut their target for overnight loans between banks to a range of zero to 0.25 percent, down from the 1 percent target set at the last Fed meeting in October.

"Not only does it help in reducing the actual borrowing costs -- home equity loans, credit cards or your auto loan -- but it improves the affordability, so more people are eligible for credit because their interest payments are lower," said Brian Bethune, chief financial economist for Global Insight, a Lexington, Massachusetts-based forecasting service.

He said that will help improve chances that borrowers with borderline eligibility will qualify for loans.

For the U.S. government, money is also on sale. The yield on the 30-year Treasury bond plunged to as low as 2.72 percent on Tuesday, its lowest level in the 31 years since regular auctions of the securities started in 1977. Rates for other Treasuries of shorter maturity also fell, with 3-month bills barely holding above zero.

While that's good news for the government, which is facing a likely deficit of $1 trillion or more this year, it's a blow to savers who parked almost $3.8 trillion of their cash in money market mutual funds. The seven-day average yield on those funds fell to 0.94 percent last week from 1.04 percent a week earlier, according to Money Fund Report, a service of iMoneyNet Inc. in Westboro, Massachusetts.

Mortgage rates actually rose slightly on Tuesday to a national average of 5.3 percent from 5.28 percent on Monday night, according to financial publisher HSH Associates.

But lower rates -- even below 5 percent -- are already available to borrowers with strong credit and hefty down payments. Those attractive rates, however, are only available to borrowers willing to pay add-on fees known as points.

The dip below 3 percent this week in the yield of the 30-year Treasury bond is particularly notable, given that the average rate of consumer inflation for the past 25 years has been around 3 percent. Essentially, investors are willing to simply keep up with inflation rather than risk losing their principal.

Or, as some analysts contend, it amounts to a bet by investors on deflation. On Tuesday, the Labor Department reported that consumer prices last month dropped by 1.7 percent, the largest amount in 61 years of records, due to huge declines in food and energy prices.

The yield on the 30-year bond has fallen from more than 5 percent over the past year and a half as stocks have tumbled. That means that if you bought $10,000 worth of 30-year bonds in June 2007, you would be earning about $500 per year on that investment if you held it until 2037. If you bought $10,000 worth of the bonds now, you would earn only about $275 per year.

While almost all the interest rate news on Tuesday was consumer friendly, analysts say it's far too early to declare a bottom to the recession.

Home prices are still falling in many parts of the country as foreclosure rates rise. Job losses are likely to intensify through the winter and an overall easing of costs for borrowers will take some time.

"I don't think it's going to make people rush out and buy a car," said Joseph LaVorgna, chief U.S. economist at Deutsche Bank. "These rates are going to take awhile to come down."

Banks and consumers will also play an important role in determining the impact of the rate cuts.

Economists noted that consumers worried about their jobs may not want to take on more debt no matter how low the rates and banks may continue to be unwilling to lend to some people who want to borrow.

"Consumers' behavior has changed," said Scott Anderson, senior economist at Wells Fargo. Gas prices have dropped and inflation has receded, but "people aren't spending that windfall, they're saving it."

On the flip side, John Silvia, chief economist at Wachovia, said: "When you think about someone giving you a loan, it's not just the rate, it's lenders' expectations of your ability to repay that loan."

In the middle of a recession, with unemployment rising "this is not the environment to go speculating on making loans to people who may be unemployed in two or three weeks," Silvia said.

"This will eventually ease credit, boost profits and help reverse the recession," said Diane Swonk, chief economist at Mesirow Financial Inc., a Chicago-based financial services firm. "Eventually, however, is still more of a 2010 than 2009 phenomenon."
   RF7   INi81501 : Credit Types/Services | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPCtagpf1wcat | sel----- | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | NA US Consumer Rates | D9548SVG1   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020081217e4ch000ss  



 HDWall Street finishes lower as investors grapple with economic woes, impact of Fed rate cut   BYBy SARA LEPRO      CRAP Business Writer   WC1,334 words   PD18 December 2008   ET00:33   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPNEW YORK (AP) - Wall Street finished moderately lower Wednesday, as further signs of economic deterioration dampened investors' earlier enthusiasm about the Federal Reserve's record interest rate cut.

Stocks declined in the early going after a larger-than-expected loss from Morgan Stanley offered fresh evidence of the sizable obstacles the battered financial industry still faces. The company posted a loss of $2.37 billion, or $2.34 per share, for the fiscal fourth quarter. The report came a day after rival Goldman Sachs Group Inc. posted its first quarterly loss since going public in 1999.
   TDSome selling had been expected after Tuesday's huge rally in which the Dow Jones industrial average rose more than 4 percent and other indexes gained more than 5 percent. The moves came after the central bank lowered its federal funds rate target to a range of zero to 0.25 percent -- the lowest levels on record.

But after briefly moving into positive territory, stocks struggled to hold on to the big gains logged the day before as investors grappled with signs of a worsening economy, including more layoffs, and the magnitude of the Fed's actions.

"This is a whole lot of new information for people to digest," said David Waddell, senior investment strategist and chief executive of Waddell & Associates. "Now we need time to sit back ... and figure out what it all means."

Some investors also likely took the Fed's sharp rate cut as an indication of how dire the global financial crisis and economic troubles really are.

The Fed's move was an unprecedented one aimed at boosting borrowing and lending. The central bank said Tuesday it anticipates the weak economy will keep the target rate low for "some time," and added that it is mulling the possibility of buying Treasurys -- in effect, printing new money.

Still, despite Wednesday's decline, investors have been rather resilient in recent trading sessions, an encouraging sign for analysts who believe the market might be entering a period of stability after the unrelenting selling of the past three months.

"Even if the market is down 100 points, the fact that it's been in a narrow trading range I think is very positive," Waddell said.

The Dow Jones industrial average fell 99.80, or 1.12 percent, to 8,824.34, after falling as many as 146 points earlier in the session. The Standard & Poor's 500 index slipped 8.76, or 0.96 percent, to 904.42, and the Nasdaq composite index fell 10.58, or 0.67 percent, to 1,579.31.

The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies was up 3.74, or 0.77 percent, to 486.59.

Advancing issues outnumbered decliners by about 3 to 2 on the New York Stock Exchange, where consolidated volume came to a light 5.18 billion shares, down from 5.81 billion shares on Tuesday.

Volume will likely remain light for the remainder of the year as investors break for the holidays. Light volume tends to skew the market's movements, and could increase volatility in the coming sessions, analysts said.

The Fed's action on Tuesday is expected to lower rates on everything from home equity loans to credit card loans. Meanwhile, mortgage rates are falling after the Fed renewed its pledge to buy up billions of dollars of mortgage debt. The national average rate on a 30-year fixed rate mortgage on Wednesday was 5.06 percent, according to financial publisher HSH Associates, the lowest average since the early 1960s and down from 5.3 percent on Tuesday.

Falling interest rates mean Americans could suddenly find billions of extra dollars in their pockets at a time when consumers have sharply cut back on spending amid rising unemployment and declining household wealth.

But many experts believe that the interest rate cuts alone won't be enough to jump-start the economy.

"It's a tall order to get (people) to go out and spend again," said Joseph LaVorgna, chief U.S. economist at Deutsche Bank. "That's why you also need a stimulus."

President-elect Barack Obama's advisers are currently contemplating an economic recovery plan that could cost as much as $1 trillion over two years.

Fresh evidence of a still-weakening job market only exacerbated investors' concerns that the economy has far to go before pulling out of recession. The Cooper Tire and Rubber Co. said Wednesday it will cut 1,300 jobs and close a plant in Georgia, while Newell Rubbermaid Inc. is reducing its salaried work force by as much as 10 percent. The maker of Rubbermaid storage containers and Sharpie pens also slashed its fourth-quarter and full-year profit guidance. Its shares plunged $3.60, or 27 percent, to $9.58.

Investors are trying to make some sense of it all, said Anton Schutz, portfolio manager of Burnham Financial Industries Fund and Burnham Financial Services Fund.

"The debate that's going on here is, has the Fed fired all its bullets and can it do more?" he said.

"If you go back in history, every time you have an interest rate cut the market gets fairly euphoric," said Anthony Conroy, managing director and head trader for BNY ConvergEx Group. "We're in earnings season and I think there is some concern that the Fed is running out of ammunition and doesn't have many tools left so people are really taking a hard look."

Meanwhile, the fraud investigation of Wall Street money manager Bernard L. Madoff progressed Wednesday, as the Securities and Exchange Commission looked into the relationship between Madoff's niece and a former SEC attorney who reviewed Madoff's business.

SEC Chairman Christopher Cox blamed regulators for a decade-long failure to investigate Madoff, who is accused of running a $50 billion Ponzi scheme. Cox said staff attorneys never bothered to seek a formal commission-approved investigation that would have forced Madoff to surrender vital information under subpoena.

Some financial stocks rebounded late Wednesday. After being down by as much as 8 percent earlier, Morgan Stanley shares gained 37 cents, or 2.3 percent, to close at $16.50. Goldman Sachs added $2.78, or 3.7 percent, to $78.78.

Energy stocks slumped on falling oil prices. Chevron Corp. dropped $2.19, or 2.8 percent, to $76.82, while Exxon Mobil Corp. lost $2.08, or 2.5 percent, to $81.06.

Oil prices tumbled below $40 for the first time since the summer of 2004 Wednesday despite an announcement from OPEC that it planned a record production cut of 2.2 million barrels a day. Many analysts believe oil prices will continue falling next year amid weak demand.

Light, sweet crude for January delivery tumbled 8 percent, or $3.54, to settle at $40.06 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange.

The dollar sank to a fresh two-month low against the euro and a 13-year low against the yen. Gold prices rose.

Bond prices extended sharp gains Wednesday. The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note, which moves opposite its price, fell to 2.19 percent late Wednesday from 2.28 percent late Tuesday. The yield on the popular three-month T-bill -- whose yield has at times gone negative due to frenzied buying -- was at 0.01 percent late Wednesday, down from 0.03 percent late Tuesday.

Overseas, Japan's Nikkei stock average rose 0.52 percent, while Hong Kong's Hang Seng index rose 2.18 percent. Britain's FTSE 100 rose 0.35 percent, Germany's DAX index fell 0.46 percent, and France's CAC-40 fell 0.30 percent.

------

On the Net:

New York Stock Exchange: http://www.nyse.com

Nasdaq Stock Market: http://www.nasdaq.com
   RF5   ARTimage/jpeg: 68a6787f-41e3-4ea0-93f5-d5b82f2c11fb | image/jpeg: 0870fad4-6afb-4b90-97a4-e33b0fd00c8b      COgldmns : The Goldman Sachs Group Incorporated | dwitd : Morgan Stanley   INi814 : Banking | i831 : Financial Investments | i83101 : Investment Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | iinv : Investing/Securities   NSm11 : Equity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | e1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagpf1apon | sel----- | catf | 1320   IPDFinancial/Business | Wall Street | D954OQKO0   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020081217e4ch0002k  



 HD=DJ RATE FUTURES REPORT: Volatility Churns Tsy Futures Markets   WC675 words   PD15 December 2008   ET13:36   SNDow Jones Institutional News   SCDJDN   LAEnglish   CYCopyright © 2008, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.  
   LP(This article was originally published Friday.) 


 
 
   By Jacob Bunge 
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES 
 
   TDCHICAGO (Dow Jones)--Interest rate futures rode a volatile equity market Friday as the U.S. Treasury prepared to ride to the rescue of embattled Detroit auto makers, hours after a bailout effort died in the Senate.

At the same time, another raft of troubling economic data arrived in retail sales and producer prices, putting a damper on investors' optimism.

The White House announced early Friday that it could dip into the Treasury's $700 billion Troubled Asset Relief Program to help U.S. car companies avoid a collapse that would have "a severe impact on our economy," according to a statement from White House spokeswoman Dana Perino.

The news saw equities markets trim sharp losses and sparked a decline in Treasury futures markets, which began the trading session poised for a big rally as traders weighed the possible impact of Chrysler LLC, General Motors Corp. (GM) or both entering bankruptcy before the end of the year.

The prospect of government relief for beleaguered auto makers represented "a stay of execution in terms of the impact on the economy," said Michael Gregory, a senior economist for BMO Capital Markets.

Setting aside what would have been a catastrophic event for American industry, the economic picture remains grim. The producer price index, reflecting prices paid to U.S. producers, fell 2.2% in November as commodities prices slumped. Retail sales dropped 1.8%, less than expected, but marked a fifth straight month of declines with particular weakness in auto sales.

That outlook helped Treasury futures rally late in the session, pushing the expected cash yield of 30-year Treasurys below 3.125%, according to Optima Investment Research. Expected yields for 10-year Treasurys fell below 2.625%.

Gregory said he expected Treasury futures trading to quiet down early next week as the Federal Open Market Committee gathers Monday and Tuesday, a meeting that is expected to produce a half-percentage point cut to the Federal Reserve's benchmark interest rate. The FOMC is also expected to shed light on other methods the Fed might use to spur the economy, such as buying up longer-dated Treasurys or selling bonds of its own.

According to Gregory, a TARP lifeline for Detroit makes it likely that the Fed will ease its benchmark rate by a half percentage point, rather than three-quarters of a percentage point, which fed funds futures markets continue to see as a possibility.

The January fed funds contract ended trading Friday fully priced for the Fed to ease its target rate to 0.5%, with a 72% chance that the rate will fall to 0.25%.

Eurodollar futures markets were quiet Friday, the last full day of trading for the December 2008 Eurodollar contract. Quarterly 2009 contracts ended the session slightly lower in light trading.

Eurodollar futures floor broker Art Nolan of Rosenthal Collins Group said he doesn't expect the market to pick up much as the year winds down, with investors seeing little upside to taking on additional risk.

"It's a survivor's kind of year," said Nolan. "If you've made it this far, why take any more chances?" 


 
  CONTRACT              SETTLE         CHANGE 
 
   Dec 08  Fed Funds    99.795        Dn .5 basis points * 
   Jan 09  Fed Funds    99.68         Dn 2.5 basis points 
   Feb 09  Fed Funds    99.68         Dn 4 basis points 
   Dec 08  Eurodollars  98.115        Up 1.7 basis points 
   Mar 09  Eurodollars  98.455        Dn 3 basis points 
   Jun 09  Eurodollars  98.41         Dn 4.5 basis points 
   Sep 09  Eurodollars  98.33         Dn 3 basis points 
   Mar  10-Year Notes   124-11        Up 12/32 
   Mar  30-Year Bonds   134-26        Up 12+/32 
 
   * A basis point is equivalent to 1/100th of a percentage point. 
 
 

-By Jacob Bunge, Dow Jones Newswires; (312) 750 4117; jacob.bunge@dowjones.com

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

December 15, 2008 07:36 ET (12:36 GMT)
   COcryco : Chrysler Group LLC | fiat : Fiat Chrysler Automobiles NV   INi351 : Motor Vehicles | iaut : Automotive   NSmntdbt : National Government Debt/Bond Markets | c332 : Government Contracts | e1202 : Interest Rates | c33 : Contracts/Orders | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument DJDN000020090818e4cf0mv43  



 HDUS RATE FUTURES-Spike as Fed sets low funds target range   BYBy Ros Krasny      WC459 words   PD16 December 2008   ET20:31   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited   
   LP(Adds details, analyst comments, byline)

CHICAGO, Dec 16 (Reuters) - Financial dealers on Tuesday bet that U.S. short-term interest rates will remain barely above zero for months after the Federal Reserve set a new, low range for its key lending rate and outlined other aggressive measures to support the economy.
   TD"The message is that they're instituting quantitative easing on a fairly large scale," said Doug Roberts, chief investment strategist at Channel Capital Research in Shrewsbury, New Jersey.

After two days of deliberations. the FOMC set a target range for the fed funds rate of zero to 0.25 percent, down from the previous target rate of 1 percent.

Establishing a target range, rather than a target rate, was unexpected, and pushing that range all the way to zero also took the market by surprise.

But dealers said the Fed had opted to set a funds rate, or range, closer to where the effective rate has been trading for weeks. Cash fed funds traded at 0.0625 percent after the rate announcement, down from 0.125 percent.

Coming into the meeting, options traders had roughly an 11-percent bet on a zero interest rate, but the Wall Street consensus was that the FOMC would cut its target rate by 50 basis points, to 0.5 percent.

Futures prices jumped sharply as dealers positioned for the new, lower target range and the Fed's commitment to "exceptionally low levels of the federal funds rate for some time."

Futures <FFG9> prices now imply a funds rate after the Jan 27-28 FOMC meeting of 0.17 percent, and by mid-2009 <FFN9> of just 0.37 percent.

Fed officials have acknowledged that the bank started quantitative easing -- flooding the banking system with masses of money to promote lending -- a few months ago, and Tuesday's comments suggested the program is being ramped up.

The FOMC said its focus going forward would be on stimulating the U.S. economy "through open-market operations and other measures that sustain the size of the Federal Reserve's balance sheet at a high level."

"Quantitative easing is likely to be targeted at boosting economic activity and lending, not directed at increasing inflation to avoid a prolonged period of deflation," said Kurt Karl, chief U.S. economist for Swiss Re.

Still, the Fed's statement said that the bank will use all available tools "to preserve price stability," which in the context of the ongoing U.S. economic recession suggests policy-makers are on high alert against damaging deflation.

(Editing by Chizu Nomiyama)
   RFMARKETS-RATEFUTURES-FOMC (UPDATE 1)|LANGEN|ABN|E|RBN|D|U|M|MNI|RNP|DNP   NSe1201 : Central Bank Intervention | m15 : Derivative Securities | ntop : Dow Jones/Reuters Top Wire News | e1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCDBT | GVD | INT | MCE | NEWS | MMT | DRV | FED | CEN   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020081216e4cg001rm  



 HDSeoul shares seen up after U.S. rate cut, rally   WC422 words   PD17 December 2008   ET00:36   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited   
   LP SEOUL, Dec 17 (Reuters) - Seoul shares may rise on Wednesday after a larger-than-expected interest rate cut by the U.S. Federal Reserve prompted big gains on Wall Street overnight, likely sending financials and battered consumption issues higher.

 The U.S. Federal Reserve took a radical step to revive the moribund economy, slashing key interest rates to a zero to 0.25 percent range on Tuesday.[ID:nLG589138]
   TD "This is indeed a very positive development and we are likely to see strong gains in Seoul markets as well, particularly those in financials and sectors that are especially sensitive to consumer sentiment, such as techs and retails," said Hwang Keum-dan, a market analyst at Samsung Securities.

 Financials including Shinhan Financial Group  are likely to gain further support from Goldman Sachs'  which reported earnings on Tuesday which were not as bad as feared, sending its shares up 14.4 percent.

 Meanwhile memory chip makers including Hynix Semiconductor  could be in focus after Taiwan's economics ministry said on Tuesday it will support the struggling local DRAM industry.[ID:nTPU000957]

 The Korea Composite Stock Price Index <.KS11> finished up 0.29 percent at 1,161.56 points on Tuesday. 


 ----------------------MARKET SNAPSHOT @ 2247 GMT ------------
                  INSTRUMENT   LAST       PCT CHG   NET CHG
 S&P 500             <.SPX>       913.18       5.14%    44.610
 USD/JPY             <JPY=>       88.92       -0.01%    -0.010
 10-YR US TSY YLD    <US10YT=RR>  2.2607          --    -0.255
 SPOT GOLD           <XAU=>       856.45      -0.10%    -0.900
 US CRUDE            <CLc1>       43.6         0.00%    -0.910
 DOW JONES           <.DJI>       8924.14      4.20%    359.61
 ASIA ADRS           <.BKAS>      96.74        6.14%      5.60
 -------------------------------------------------------------


 MARKET SUMMARY
*Stocks soar after Fed rate cut, financials rally [ID:nN16283228]
*OPEC rallies behind record oil supply cut [ID:nLG523558]
*US dollar tumbles after Fed cuts to record low [ID:nN16588405]
*Two-year T-note yield falls to record low [ID:nNYG001433]

 STOCKS TO WATCH

 DAISHIN SECURITIES 

 South Korea's medium-sized brokerage said late on Tuesday its
November net profit rose 269 percent year-on-year to 28.7 billion
won.

  - - - -

POSCO

 The world's No.4 steelmaker said after the market close on
Tuesday it may cut steel output next year if market conditions
deteriorate further and a weaker won currency depresses earnings
in the coming months.[ID:nSEO112910]

 (Reporting by Park Jung-youn; Editing by Keiron Henderson)



   RFMARKETS-KOREA-STOCKS|LANGEN|Table|ABN|E|RBN|RNP|DNP|PTD|PMF   COhaninv : Samsung Securities Co Ltd | shnfin : Shinhan Financial Group Co Ltd   INibnk : Banking/Credit | i814 : Banking | i831 : Financial Investments | i83102 : Security Brokering/Dealing | iinv : Investing/Securities   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News   REdevgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | india : India | skorea : South Korea | taiwan : Taiwan | usa : United States | asiaz : Asia | chinaz : Greater China | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | indsubz : Indian Subcontinent | namz : North America | sasiaz : Southern Asia   IPCSTX | DRV | INVS | FIN | BSVC | FINS | MINS | INS | AIRL | CPX | .KS   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020081216e4cg001zu  



 HDREFILE-Europe stocks fall, investors await Fed rate decision   WC446 words   PD16 December 2008   ET09:27   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited   
   LP (Corrects to fix garbled paragraphs throughout)

 LONDON, Dec 16 (Reuters) - European shares fell early on Tuesday as investors took caution ahead of the U.S. Federal Reserve interest rate decision and Goldman Sachs  figures, while mining stocks led the losers tracking lower metal prices. By 0814 GMT, the pan-European FTSEurofirst 300 <.FTEU3> index of top European shares was down 0.2 percent at 825.25 points. The U.S. Federal Reserve is expected to cut interest rates by 50 basis points from the current 1 percent. As rates drop close to zero investors will focus on whether the Fed gives clues on what further easing measures it will take to steer the U.S. economy away from recession.
   TD "While the the Fed will probably cut it is really meaningless at these levels, we are paddling in shallow water and the cut is more symbolic than anything else. Rather the banking system needs to be repaired and banks need to be able to lend again," said Justin Urquhart Stewart, director at Seven Investment Management.

 Mining stocks took the most points off the index as copper <MCU3=LX> dropped 1.8 percent and the price of metals retreated.

Xstrata Plc  was down 2.7 percent as it announced it had shut down half its coking coal production at a mine in Australia.

Anglo American , Antofagasta , BHP Billiton , Lonmin , Kazakhmys , Rio Tinto , and Vedanta Resources  were 1.9-5 percent lower.

 Banking stocks were heavy weighted losers on the index as investors remained nervous ahead of Goldman Sachs figures. The group is expected to report a quarterly loss of as much as $2.5 billion, hit by the falling value of many of its investments.

  Europe's biggest bank, HSBC  lost 1.6 percent after it said about 10 percent of its workforce in Taiwan will leave this year as the economy slows and as it integrates a recently acquired local bank.

 Swiss bank Credit Suisse  slipped 3.3 percent after the group said it has cut its Japan investment banking workforce by more than half and will suspend its leveraged finance business, a person with direct knowledge of the changes told Reuters.

 Across Europe, the FTSE 100 index was down 0.1 percent, Germany's DAX was up 0.3 percent and France's CAC 40 was 0.2 percent higher. (Reporting by Joanne Frearson)

 (joanne.frearson@thomsonreuters.com; +44 207 542 2773, ReutersMessaging:joanne.frearson.thomsonreuters.com@reuters.net) 
   RFMARKETS-EUROPE-STOCKS/OPEN (URGENT)|LANGEN|ABN|E|RBN|U|UKI|M|D|G|DA|FN|NW|SW|RNP|DNP|PTD|PGE   NSm11 : Equity Markets | ntop : Dow Jones/Reuters Top Wire News | e1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REeecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe   IPCSTX | NEWS | .EU | .F | .PA   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020081216e4cg000q7  



 HDGold prices edge higher after Fed rate cut   WC426 words   PD17 December 2008   ET08:50   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPNEW YORK (AP) - Gold prices edged higher Tuesday as the dollar sank against major currencies after the Federal Reserve cut its key interest rate to the lowest level on record.

Other commodities were mixed.
   TDThe Federal Reserve on Tuesday set its target for the rate at which banks lend to each other to a range of zero to 0.25 percent. This is down from the 1 percent target rate set by the Fed at its previous meeting in October, and was a steeper cut than analysts had expected. The central bank also said it will use "all available tools" to jump-start the economy.

Lower interest rates can spur economic activity, but they can also weaken the dollar and trigger inflation. On Tuesday, the dollar plunged against the euro and the British pound. Commodities, which are often used as a hedge against inflation, tend to benefit from a weaker greenback.

The Fed announcement sent stocks soaring. The Dow Jones industrial average surged 360 points, or 4.2 percent, and broader indexes jumped more than 5 percent.

Meanwhile, demand for government bonds spiked. The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note, which moves opposite its price, fell to 2.28 percent from 2.53 percent late Monday.

Gold for February delivery rose $6.20 to settle at $842.70 an ounce on the New York Mercantile Exchange.

Other precious metals prices were mixed. March silver added 8.5 cents to $10.70 an ounce, while March copper futures slipped 2.65 cents to $1.3785 a pound.

Oil prices declined on the Nymex as OPEC powerhouse Saudi Arabia said oil production would be cut by 2 million barrels per day. The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, which accounts for 40 percent of global supply, has struggled to halt falling crude prices as demand falters.

Light, sweet crude for January delivery fell 91 cents to settle at $43.60 a barrel. The decline in prices suggested that oil traders and brokers expected talk of an even bigger cut.

In other Nymex trading, gasoline futures rose less than a penny to settle at $1.04 a gallon, while heating oil also gained less than a penny to $1.4603 a gallon.

Grain prices advanced on the Chicago Board of Trade.

March wheat futures rose 24 cents to $5.44 a bushel, while corn for March delivery rose 18.75 cents to $3.94 a bushel.

March soybeans gained 13.5 cents to settle at $8.63 a bushel.
   RF7   INi13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1 : Energy   NSm14 : Commodity Markets | m143 : Energy Markets | m15 : Derivative Securities | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mcroil : Crude Oil Markets | e1202 : Interest Rates | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mpcsmt : Precious Metals Markets | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m142 : Metals Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   IPCtagpf1wcat | sel----- | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | NA US Commodities Review | D954B0J80   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020081217e4ch0015p  



 HDChina shares flat despite US rate cut   WC274 words   PD17 December 2008   ET09:44   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPSHANGHAI, China (AP) - Chinese shares ended flat Wednesday despite regional markets gaining after the U.S. Federal Reserve slashed its key interest rate.

The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index closed up 0.1 percent, or 1.81 points, at 1,976.82 after giving up most of its early gains. The smaller Shenzhen Composite Index rose 0.9 percent to close at 607.4.
   TDAnalysts said the U.S. rate cut would create more room for China to lower its relatively high interest rates compared with other countries.

Zhou Xiaochuan, governor of China's central bank, told reporters Monday that another interest rate cut was likely as soon as the end of the year.

Medical and pharmaceutical stocks extended gains on pledges of more government spending on medical reforms.

Beijing SL Pharmaceutical Co. surged 6 percent to 35.28 yuan, and Shandong Xinhua Pharmaceutical Co. gained 1.3 percent to 3.97 yuan.

Banks dropped despite news reports that Central Huijin Investment Company Ltd., a subsidiary of China's sovereign wealth fund, bought 50.07 million yuan ($7.32 million) of shares in Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd. last Friday.

ICBC fell 0.3 percent to 3.78 yuan, Bank of China Ltd. slipped 0.3 percent to 3.14 yuan and China Construction Bank Ltd. shed 0.5 percent to 4.12 yuan. Midsize lender Pudong Development Bank Ltd. lost 1.7 percent to 13.8 yuan.

In currency markets, China's yuan slightly changed to 6.8395 to the U.S. dollar around 0800 GMT, up from Tuesday's close of 6.84480.
   RF7   NSm11 : Equity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | c1522 : Share Price Movement/Disruptions | e1202 : Interest Rates | c15 : Performance | c152 : Earnings Projections | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter   REchina : China | usa : United States | asiaz : Asia | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America   IPCtagpf1wcat | sel----- | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | AS China Markets | D954BPKG0   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020081217e4ch001bc  



 HDOffice supply retailers climb after Fed cuts key federal funds  interest rate    WC173 words   PD16 December 2008   ET20:33   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPCHICAGO (AP) - Shares of office supply retailers climbed Tuesday after the nation's central bank announced it was slashing a key interest rate to a record low.

The news of the cut to the federal funds rate to a range of zero to 0.25 percent, down from the 1 percent target rate in effect since the last meeting in October, was widely expected as the Federal Reserve moved to stop a recession that's being blamed for dragging down consumer prices and home construction.
   TDAmong the companies particularly hard hit by the economic downturn are office supply chains, who've seen much of their business from smaller customers diminish amid worries of finances and layoffs.

Shares of Staples Inc. rose 90 cents, or 5.3 percent, to $17.84 in afternoon trading while competitor Office Depot Inc. rose 16 cents, or 6.5 percent, to $2.61.

OfficeMax Inc. gained 38 cents, or 6.7 percent, to $6.05.
   RF7   CObcc : OfficeMax Inc | offcd : Office Depot Inc | stpls : Staples Inc   INi61 : Wholesalers | i64 : Retail/Wholesale | i653 : Book/Office Supplies Stores | i6532 : Office Supplies/Gift Stores | i654 : Specialty Stores | iretail : Retail   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagpf1finonl | sel----- | catf | 1333   IPDFinancial/Business | Office Suppliers Sector Snap | D95407980   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020081216e4cg005l8  



 HDManaged care stocks rise as Fed cuts key  interest rate    WC306 words   PD16 December 2008   ET21:35   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPINDIANAPOLIS (AP) - Shares of managed care companies rose Tuesday as the Federal Reserve met Wall Street expectations by making a key interest rate cut.

The Fed said it was reducing its targeted federal funds rate, or the interest that banks charge each other, to a range of zero to 0.25 percent. That compared to the 1 percent Fed funds target rate in effect since the last meeting in October.
   TDWall Street expected the cut as another measure by the Fed to stabilize an economy that continues falling deeper into a recession. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 253.84, or 2.96 percent, to 8,818.37 after having been up about 100 ahead of the move. Broader stock indicators like the Standard & Poor's 500 index and the Nasdaq composite also rose.

Of managed care companies, shares of Cigna Corp. saw the largest gain in afternoon trading. They rose 9.4 percent, or $1.38, to $16.01 from Monday's closing price.

WellPoint Inc. shares rose more than 6.4 percent, or $2.39, to $39.49; Humana Inc. shares rose 5.3 percent, or $1.72, to $34.14; Aetna was up 5.42 percent, or $1.26, to $24.59; UnitedHealth rose 4 percent, or 96 cents, to $24.74; and Coventry Health Care Inc. rose 2.7 percent, or 34 cents, to $13.05.

Many insurance stocks have seen steep price drops this year, due in part to the slumping economy, concern over investment losses, concern about the impact of a new presidential administration and declines in employer-sponsored health coverage.

Aetna held a Tuesday morning conference call with analysts to reaffirm its growth projections for 2009 and to discuss the strength of its business and investment portfolio.
   RF7   COanminc : Wellpoint Inc | congen : CIGNA Corp   INi82 : Insurance | i82003 : Non-life Insurance | i8200301 : Health/Medical Insurance | i951 : Health Care | ihmo : Health Maintenance Organizations | iphhss : Healthcare Support Services | iprivhea : Private Health Insurance   NSm11 : Equity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | e1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagpf1finonl | sel----- | catf | 1333   IPDFinancial/Business | Managed Care Sector Snap | D95414480   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020081216e4cg005pf  



 SEMarkets   HDAsian Markets Edge Higher After Fed Slashes  Interest Rate    BYBy Rosalind Mathieson    WC783 words   PD17 December 2008   ET12:04   SNThe Wall Street Journal (Online and Print)   SCWSJO   PGInternational Markets   LAEnglish   CYCopyright 2008 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
   LPAsian share markets managed only modest gains Wednesday despite Wall Street's sharp rise, as the gloss came off the Federal Reserve's move to take interest rates in the U.S. effectively to zero.

Markets in Asia briefly turned lower in several places before late support came in: Japan's Nikkei 225 ended up 0.5%, though crimped by strength in the Japanese yen against the U.S. dollar. Hong Kong's Hang Seng Index gained 2.2%, Korea's Kospi Composite rose 0.7%, Australia's S&P/ASX 200 added 0.4% and Taiwan's index gained 0.7%.
   TDThe moves came after U.S. central bank's Federal Open Market Committee established a target range for the federal funds rate of zero to 0.25%, effectively cutting its key rate for overnight lending to banks by between 0.75% and 1%.

The aggressive Fed action "shows how severe things are over there (in the U.S. economy). The Fed is being pushed into a corner," said Grant Williamson, an adviser at Hamilton Hindin Greene in New Zealand.

One other likely reason for the modest move in the region's exchanges was the gains already made in the past few weeks. Trading activity also appeared to be winding down ahead of the year-end.

"We are not really firing. We are just sort of wallowing. It's been a horrible year and I think most people just want it to end," said First NZ Capital research director Barry Lindsay.

U.S. stock futures were down around 1% in screen trade, while the U.S. dollar was under heavy pressure against a slew of currencies, including emerging market Asian names like the Korean won, Indonesian rupiah and Singapore dollar, which were sharply higher.

"The U.S. dollar is really taking a bath," said Amy Auster, a strategist at ANZ in Australia.

Markets were closely watching the decline in the dollar versus the yen; Finance Minister Shoichi Nakagawa initially said the yen gains weren't too rapid, but later warned Tokyo was ready to take "necessary steps" to support the market if needed.

Overnight on Wall Street, the Dow Jones Industrial Average jumped 4.2% after the Fed cut the target fed-funds rate from 1% to a range of zero to 0.25%, the lowest since it started publishing the target in 1990, and it said it would keep rates "exceptionally low" for some time.

While the Fed was clearly acting aggressively, "such 'whatever it takes' policy underlines the dire economic situation in the U.S.," said analysts at Calyon.

Analysts at CIMB added the Fed was running out of wiggle room; "we are concerned that pushing rates to near zero could risk tipping the economy into a severe deflationary state if the substantial monetary stimulus fails to jumpstart spending."

In Asia, shares of Japanese exporters fell on the yen cue; Toyota Motor fell 4.2%, Honda Motor shed 4.2%, Mazda Motor lost 4% and Nissan Motor declined 4.2%.

Financial stocks were higher in Japan and Korea after their U.S. peers gained; Japan's Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group gained 2.2% and Mizuho Financial Group added 3.2%, while in Korea, KB Financial rose 6.2%.

Banks fell in Australia, though, with ANZ down 4.6% and Westpac off 4.7%, while Commonwealth Bank of Australia was halted after canceling a share placement.

Taiwan's market was led by non-technology names like building and steelmaking shares; Huang Hsiang Construction gained 6.9% and Taiwan Cement 3.7%.

In India, Satyam Computer fell 27% after the company -- hit by an investor outcry -- dropped its $1.6 billion plan to buy stakes in a pair of infrastructure companies in which the Indian software company's founders held stakes.

Malaysia's main index was 1.0% higher with Singapore's Straits Times Index up 1.1%; Philippine shares gained 0.8%, Thai shares 1.3% and Indonesian shares 1.0%, while China's Shanghai Composite added 0.7%.

The yield squeeze from the Fed's actions pushed the U.S. dollar briefly to 88.24 yen, from 90.96 yen late Tuesday in Asia, though it recently traded near 88.77 yen. The euro was up near $1.4057, after touching $1.4150. Even the yuan rose against the greenback.

Front-month Nymex crude was up 81 cents on Globex at $44.91 a barrel, after falling 2% in New York, with the market looking for an output cut from OPEC at its meeting later Wednesday.

Write to Rosalind Mathieson at rosalind.mathieson@dowjones.com 
   NSc1522 : Share Price Movement/Disruptions | e1202 : Interest Rates | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | c15 : Performance | c152 : Earnings Projections | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter   REjap : Japan | usa : United States | china : China | asiaz : Asia | austr : Australia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America   IPDAsia Markets   PUBDow Jones & Company, Inc.   ANDocument WSJO000020091007e4ch00o51  



 HDTOPWRAP 10-US slashes rates as world eyes all economic tools   WC1,137 words   PD16 December 2008   ET23:01   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited   
   LP* Fed cuts rates to zero to 0.25 pct range; stocks rally

* Goldman reports first quarterly loss since going public
   TD* U.S. housing starts down sharply in November

* Japan considering flooding banks with free cash

* European activity shrinks, car sales dive

By Mary Milliken

NEW YORK, Dec 16 (Reuters) - The U.S. Federal Reserve took a radical step to revive the moribund economy, slashing its key interest rate to zero to 0.25 percent on Tuesday, shortly after plummeting consumer prices and record-low housing starts pointed to a prolonged recession.

Markets rallied on news of the larger-than-expected cut from 1 percent, which virtually exhausts the traditional Fed tools to battle the year-long recession.

The Fed, which said it would employ "all available tools," might take a page out of Japan's economic playbook. Japan's Central Bank signaled it could flood banks with zero-interest money for the second time in a decade. Japan might also see a rate cut this week, and in Europe, new data pointed to a possible cut next month.

U.S. stocks closed 5 percent higher after what one investor called the "extremely bold" Fed move. U.S. Treasury debt rallied sharply, pushing the benchmark note's yield down to five-decade lows, and the U.S. dollar tumbled versus the Euro and yen.

"It's a highly unorthodox and creative step," said Michael Woolfolk, senior currency strategist at the Bank of New York-Mellon in New York. "We think it's the best possible move for the U.S. consumer and for the financial market."

The extent of the current turmoil was all too apparent when Wall Street titan Goldman Sachs Group Inc posted its first quarterly loss since going public nine years ago.

But the fourth-quarter net loss of $2.12 billion was less than the market feared and Goldman shares shot up more than 16 percent after losing 70 percent this year.

Another U.S. heavyweight, General Electric, also allayed fears of a catastrophic 2009 at the conglomerate with its announcement that profit at its industrial units would be flat to 5 percent higher. Shares rose nearly 6 percent.

The U.S. housing market, at the root of the global financial and economic crisis, showed new housing starts and permits each plunging nearly 50 percent in November from a year earlier to record lows.

The U.S. consumer price index also fell at a record rate for a second-straight month during November.

"I think we're in a deflationary spiral that will probably go on until sometime next year," said Thomas di Galoma, head of U.S. Treasury trading at Jefferies & Co. in New York. "I think it will probably go on through the majority of 2009."

AUTO RESCUE HANGING

President-elect Barack Obama said that, with traditional Fed tools running out, it was important for the rest of government to pull together an economic recovery plan.

In Japan, where rates are already at an ultra-low 0.3 percent, the finance minister urged the central bank to take unorthodox steps to ease a funding crunch.

Bank of Japan Governor Masaaki Shirakawa said he was studying possible effects of so-called quantitative easing, or flooding banks with zero-interest money. Japan used that approach early this decade to spur lending and jump-start a stagnant economy.

Analysts are also debating whether the biggest plunge in business confidence in three decades will prompt the Bank of Japan to lower rates again when it meets this week.

Europe also presented evidence that an interest rate cut could take place next month. Manufacturing and services activity in the euro single-currency area sank to new lows in December, a survey showed, pointing to a deepening recession.

European car sales dropped by a quarter in November and manufacturers scaled back production.

As the impact of the sagging U.S. auto industry spread around the world, investors hoped to see the Bush administration approve loans for carmakers with funds from the bank rescue bailout.

President George W. Bush told CNN his administration was trying to get the lifeline sealed "in an expeditious way," but White House spokeswoman Dana Perino said, "We're not going to be rushed into it."

"The automakers will get the money as quickly as we can prudently do it," Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson said in an interview on CNBC television. "We need to do this but we need to do it right."

Moreover, a top Treasury official, David McCormick, told CNBC the $700 billion Troubled Asset Relief Program was meant to shore up the financial sector, not the car companies.

DEMAND FOR OIL SLUMPS

Wednesday promises major news on the oil front, as OPEC meets in Algeria and top producers Saudi Arabia and Iran give full backing to remove up to 2 million barrels per day of supply to address the first drop in world oil demand in 25 years.

But prospects of the biggest oil supply cut ever did little to help oil prices, which have plunged $100 from their all-time high in July because of slumping demand. On Tuesday, they fell more than 3 percent as the slowing economy outweighed any optimism over the OPEC and Fed moves.

"The fact that the Fed cut rates by 75 basis points rather than the consensus of 50 points seems to indicate that perhaps the economy needs major, major overhaul that is bigger than expected earlier," said Nauman Barakat, senior vice president at Macquarie Futures USA.

"That translates into lower demand for crude oil."

Nearly a week before Christmas and amid a spate of negative news in the retail sector, top U.S. consumer electronics retailer Best Buy posted a higher-than-expected quarterly profit.

Best Buy also said it plans to offer buyouts and trim back store openings as consumers cut spending. Its shares rose nearly 17 percent.

The U.S. stocks rally pushed the benchmark S&P 500 index to its highest close since Nov. 10, up 5.14 percent to 913.18.

U.S. government debt yields slipped to historic lows. The price on 30-year Treasury bonds rose sharply, pushing its yield to lows below 2.89 percent. The benchmark 10-year Treasury note's yield fell to below 2.44 percent. Both rates were last seen in the 1950s.

Earlier in the day, European stocks closed higher on Goldman and Fed rate-cut expectations. Japanese shares fell 1.1 percent as the yen's strength against the dollar hurt shares of exporters. (Reporting by Reuters bureaus worldwide; Writing by Mary Milliken; Editing by Brian Moss, Gary Hill)
   RFFINANCIAL/ (TOPWRAP 10, TV, PIX)|LANGEN|AFA|CSA|LBY|RWSA|RWS|REULB|GNS|ABX|BNX|SXNA   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020081216e4cg001xq  



 HDTAKE A LOOK-Fed rate cuts to mark pre-holiday trading   WC602 words   PD15 December 2008   ET03:35   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited  
   LPInvestors head into what for many will be the last full trading week of the year expecting more stimulative U.S. interest rate cuts but rattled by emerging dissent over how governments should boost ailing economies.

They will also get another check on the post-credit crunch health of the financial sector with fourth-quarter earnings results from banking giants Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley .
   TDThe price of oil, meanwhile, is likely to be in particular focus with oil-producing nations meeting to discuss supply cuts at a time when lower prices are one of the few areas of easing pressure on monetary authorities.

Investors needed no new stress after a year which has seen the global banking model break down, the value of stocks halve, lending freeze up and volatility soar, but the new wrinkle is squabbling among authorities about how to proceed. To read more, double-click on the square brackets below: 


  ----------------------------------------------------------------
  MARKET REPORTS:
> WALL ST WEEKAHEAD-Stocks may brake for GM, Fed, Goldman     [ID:nN14478524]
> GLOBAL MARKETS-Fed cut to mark pre-holiday trading          [ID:nLC370226]
> EMERGING MARKETS-Volatile trade and interest rate cuts seen [ID:nN14458269]
  ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL NEWS DRIVING GLOBAL MARKETS
> Three European banks announce exposure to Madoff fraud      [ID:nN14458538]
> Global car crisis far from over, executives say             [ID:nLD88880]
> US rattled by auto bailout flop, Wall Street fraud          [ID:nLC326248]
> Focus on White House in US auto bailout saga                [ID:nLC248861]
> GM bonds tumble after auto rescue package collapses         [ID:nN12476552]
> WTO drops plan for year-end Doha meeting                    [ID:nLC366803]
> US retail sales drop for 5th straight month in Nov          [ID:nN12324102]
> Alleged Madoff $50 bln fraud hits other investors           [ID:nN12444672]
> Ecuador defaults on debt, says to fight "monster" creditors [ID:nN12549586]
> EU leaders seal stimulus plan, near climate deal too        [ID:nLB335464]
> Eurozone Oct output plunges, Q3 labor costs jump            [ID:nSTR240467]
> UK commercial property down one third from peak             [ID:nLC754410]
> Japan expands stimulus plan, on guard over yen              [ID:nT91372]
  ANALYSIS RELATED TO CREDIT CRISIS
> GLOBAL ECONOMY-Bidding adieu to the great moderation        [ID:nN12561171]
> Potential GM bankruptcy catastrophic for US economy         [ID:nN12596945]
> US bailout fund's purpose shifts as woes mount              [ID:nN12601992]
> Car bailout could force overdue shakeout                    [ID:nLC600253]
> As China economy brakes, oil demand goes into reverse       [ID:nPEK297088]
> A GM failure risks more debt losses, default chain          [ID:nN11619800]
> Global economy rebalancing the hard way                     [ID:nN11503137]
> As 2008 winds down, investors get a bit bolder              [ID:nN11540861]
> Obama's "New Deal" will give US growth crucial boost        [ID:nN11554003]
> Americans cut back, but permanent thrift elusive            [ID:nN09266245]
> Spectre of central banks looms large over government bonds  [ID:nLA401648]
> Soaring sovereign CDS offer risk bet on governments         [ID:nL9651494]
  FACTBOXES:
> Europe's fiscal stimulus plans to tackle econommic crisis  [ID:nLC328323]
> US facing potential $8 trln financial rescue cost          [ID:nN24538177]
> Where has all the US bailout money gone ?                  [ID:nN17526849]
> Job cuts rise steeply as global downturn bites             [ID:nL9630969]
> World forex reserves look to be falling                    [ID:nL3124424]
> The Federal Reserve's evolving liquidity toolkit           [ID:nN26350399]
> Fed launches $200 bln consumer credit facility             [ID:nN25261467]
> TEXT-Fed statement on new consumer finance support program [ID:nN25255629]
> TEXT-Terms of Citigroup, US government agreement           [ID:nN24446578]
> Global lender IMF gives aid in financial crisis            [ID:nLQ655220]
> US banks announce capital infusions                        [ID:nN28374717]

   RFCREDITCRISIS/TAKEALOOK|LANGEN|Table|ABN|M|D|E|RBN|U|MNI|O|OIL|C|GRO|MTL|SOF|G|UKI|CANT|AUF|J|Z   NSe1122 : Mortgage Applications/Refinancing | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | ecbnk : European Central Bank | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e1202 : Interest Rates | ncdig : Corporate Digest | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News | eec : European Union | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations   REjap : Japan | usa : United States | asiaz : Asia | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America   IPCDBT | GVD | AGN | MTG | INT | MCE | STX | FRX | CEN | FED | ECB | BOJ | BNK | FIN | PLCY | U   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020081215e4cf0004x  



 HDTAKE A LOOK-Stocks, bonds rally on Fed rate cut, dollar slumps   WC539 words   PD17 December 2008   ET01:47   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited   
   LP U.S. stocks jumped 5.0 percent while the dollar tumbled and U.S. government debt yields slipped to fresh historic lows after the Federal Reserve surprised investors bu cutting its benchmark interest rate target to a record low 0-0.25 percent range.

 The Fed also said it would employ "all available tools" to dispel the deepest recession in decades, a move equity markets cheered as investors said it showed Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke will do what it takes to get the U.S. economy rolling again.
   TD The stock rally pushed the benchmark S&P 500 index to the highest close since Nov. 10.

To read more, double-click on the square brackets below: 


  ----------------------------------------------------------------
  MARKET REPORTS:
> GLOBAL MARKETS-Stocks, bonds rally on Fed, dollar slumps    [ID:nN16276532]
> MONEY MARKETS-Fed eases rates near zero as strains persist  [ID:nN16566394]
> EMERGING MARKETS-Latam adds to gains after Fed cut          [ID:nN16597586]
  ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL NEWS DRIVING GLOBAL MARKETS
> Fed cuts rates to record low, vows more action              [ID:nLG10118]
> US consumer prices and housing starts slump                 [ID:nN1620608]
> US working quickly, prudently on auto rescue - Paulson      [ID:nN16264245]
> Carmakers cut production as US bailout awaited              [ID:nLG401815]
> Goldman Sachs posts first loss since going public           [ID:nN16521076]
> Southern California homes sales jump 27 pct from year ago   [ID:nN16322963]
> Carmakers cut output as Europe sales fall 26 pct            [ID:nLG401815]
> ECB focused on ensuring past rate cuts help economy         [ID:nLG10121]
> Eurozone Q3 employment falls, argues for ECB rate cut       [ID:nLG223613]
> BOE's King says UK economy worsening, inflation to sink     [ID:nLG690878]
> Russia Nov industrial output shrinks, wage arrears double   [ID:nLG197439]
> Saudi Arabia cuts rates rates, UAE opts out                 [ID:nLG550786]
  ANALYSIS RELATED TO CREDIT CRISIS
> Bold Fed still needs fiscal help                            [ID:nN16366921]
> Erosion of paper assets to fuel gold's resurgence           [ID:nLG671464]
> China seems most appealing BRIC, Russia unloved             [ID:nLL320634]
> GLOBAL ECONOMY-Bidding adieu to the great moderation        [ID:nN12561171]
> Potential GM bankruptcy catastrophic for US economy         [ID:nN12596945]
> US bailout fund's purpose shifts as woes mount              [ID:nN12601992]
> Car bailout could force overdue shakeout                    [ID:nLC600253]
> As China economy brakes, oil demand goes into reverse       [ID:nPEK297088]
> A GM failure risks more debt losses, default chain          [ID:nN11619800]
> Global economy rebalancing the hard way                     [ID:nN11503137]
  FACTBOXES:
> TEXT-Fed statement from Dec 15-16 meeting                  [ID:nTRS000092]
> Fed funds rate changes since 1994                          [ID:nN16265829]
> Europe's fiscal stimulus plans to tackle econommic crisis  [ID:nLC328323]
> US facing potential $8 trln financial rescue cost          [ID:nN24538177]
> Where has all the US bailout money gone ?                  [ID:nN17526849]
> Job cuts rise steeply as global downturn bites             [ID:nL9630969]
> World forex reserves look to be falling                    [ID:nL3124424]
> Fed launches $200 bln consumer credit facility             [ID:nN25261467]
> TEXT-Fed statement on new consumer finance support program [ID:nN25255629]
> TEXT-Terms of Citigroup, US government agreement           [ID:nN24446578]
> Global lender IMF gives aid in financial crisis            [ID:nLQ655220]
> US banks announce capital infusions                        [ID:nN28374717]

   RFCREDITCRISIS/TAKEALOOK|LANGEN|Table|ABN|M|D|E|RBN|U|MNI|O|OIL|C|GRO|MTL|SOF|G|UKI|CANT|AUF|J|Z   NSe1122 : Mortgage Applications/Refinancing | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | ecbnk : European Central Bank | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e1202 : Interest Rates | ncdig : Corporate Digest | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News | eec : European Union | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations   REjap : Japan | usa : United States | asiaz : Asia | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America   IPCDBT | GVD | AGN | MTG | INT | MCE | STX | FRX | CEN | FED | ECB | BOJ | BNK | FIN | PLCY | U   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020081217e4ch0002a  



 HDHK shares seen higher after Fed-led rate cuts   WC488 words   PD17 December 2008   ET02:06   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited   
   LP HONG KONG, Dec 17 (Reuters) - Hong Kong shares are expected to trade higher on Wednesday after the U.S. Federal Reserve slashed interest rates pushing it towards zero in a move aimed at supporting the credit market and stimulating growth in the world's largest economy.

 Hong Kong's monetary authority followed suit, owing to the peg between the U.S. dollar and the local currency, and lowered its base rate by 100 basis points to 0.50 percent.
   TD But it is uncertain whether local lenders, who have already said there is little room to cut rates further, will match the central bank's move.

 "HSBC seems to be playing hardball but sooner or later they will have to cut rates," said Francis Lun, general manager with Fulbright Securities.

 Lun expects the benchmark index to rally to 15,700 points on Wednesday as investors ignore the poor showing by Goldman Sachs  and weak housing and inflation data from the United States on Tuesday.

 The Hang Seng Index <.HSI> gained 0.6 percent on Tuesday to close at 15,130.21 as talk of imminent interest rate and tax cuts on the mainland drove up Chinese property counters.

 STOCKS TO WATCH-

 * Mobile phone operator China Unicom  will pay 6.43 billion yuan ($940 million) in cash to buy fixed-line assets from its parent group and China Netcom, an affiliate of Unicom said on Wednesday.

 The deal is part of a sweeping, government-led restructuring of China's telecommunications sector that was launched in June to speed the roll-out of high-speed third-generation mobile phone services in the country.

 Unicom will acquire Netcom's fixed-line assets in 21 provinces and cities in southern China, as well as cable assets in northern China, China United Telecommunications Co  said in a statement.


-----------------MARKET SNAPSHOT @ 00:24 GMT-------------------
                   INSTRUMENT   LAST    PCT CHG  NET CHG
 S&P 500           <.SPX>       913.18  5.14%    44.610
 USD/JPY           <JPY=>       88.83   -0.12%   -0.110
 10-YR US TSY YLD  <US10YT=RR>  2.282   --       0.022
 SPOT GOLD         <XAU=>       $854.90 -0.29%   -2.450
 US CRUDE          <CLc1>       $44.00  0.92%    0.400
 DOW JONES         <.DJI>       8924.14 4.20%    359.61
 ASIA ADRS         <.BKAS>      96.74   6.14%    5.60
 -------------------------------------------------------------
> US slashed rates as world eyes all economic tools[ID:nLG589138]
> Wall St rallies, financials jump on Fed's rate cut         [.N]
> Oil falls as economic gloom outweighs OPEC, Fed           [O/R]
> US yields hit record lows after Fed axes rates            [US/]
> US dollar tumbles after Fed cuts rates to record low     [USD/]
> Gold jumps above $850 after Fed slashes US rates         [GOL/]


 (Reporting by Parvathy Ullatil; Editing by Jacqueline Wong)































   RFMARKETS-HONGKONG-STOCKS (PREOPENER)|LANGEN|Table|ABN|M|E|RBN|D|O|OIL|C|GRO|MTL|SOF|Z|RNP|DNP|PTD|PCM|PEN|PMF   INibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe1101 : Economic Growth | e1202 : Interest Rates | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News   REchina : China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | hkong : Hong Kong | usa : United States | asiaz : Asia | chinaz : Greater China | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America   IPCSTX | BUS | IND | MAC | FIN | INVS | BSVC | FINS | .HK   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020081217e4ch0002k  



 HDSE Asia Stocks-Off the highs after U.S. rate cut   WC475 words   PD17 December 2008   ET11:45   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited   
   LP* Rally on Fed rate cut may be short-lived, analysts say

* Malaysia at 2-week high, Thailand hits 5-week high
   TDBy Viparat Jantraprap

BANGKOK, Dec 17 (Reuters) - Most Southeast Asian stocks gained on Wednesday, cheered by a rate cut by the U.S. Federal Reserve, with Sime Darby pushing Malaysia to a two-week high and Thai shares up for a seventh day as the political climate calmed.

The big U.S. rate cut fuelled further buying of regional blue chips initially, but markets ended below the highs as doubts set in over what lower interest rates could really do to turn around the global economy.

"It's a phenomenon of a bear market rally, which tends to be short-lived," said Pichai Lertsupongkij, head of sales at Thanachart Securities in Bangkok.

"The Fed rate cut was more good news for stock markets on top of other fiscal and monetary policies worldwide but this still hasn't altered the downward trend in global economies," he said.

Singapore's benchmark Straits Times Index <.FTSTI> drifted 0.16 percent lower at the close, after a brief 1.7 percent rise to a near one-week high in morning trade, with gainers including CapitaLand , which rose 2.5 percent.

Keppel Corp , which said it would terminate a project to build a floating heavy lifter worth 140 million euros ($197 million), added 1.59 percent.

Financial shares, which earlier rose on buying into sectors sensitive to interest rates, erased early gains. DBS Group slid 2.4 percent, United Overseas Bank was down 0.6 percent and OCBC dropped 3.7 percent.

In Kuala Lumpur, the benchmark index <.KLSE> closed up 0.9 percent. Southeast Asia's best-performing market this year earlier touched its highest since Dec. 1, with gainers including Sime Darby , up 3.8 percent.

Thailand's main stock index <.SETI> ended up a mere 0.14 percent after earlier climbing 2.5 percent to its highest since Nov. 11. Improved political sentiment has driven the Thai market up by 12.7 percent in the past six days.

Siam Cement , Thailand's biggest industrial conglomerate, jumped 5.8 percent to a five-week high on hopes it would be the main beneficiary of more spending by an incoming government but PTT reversed gains, losing 1.7 percent.

Elsewhere, shares in Jakarta, Manila and Hanoi rose after the U.S. interest rate cuts.

Indonesia's main index <.JKSE> gained 1.6 percent, ending slightly below its intra-day high of 1,376.10, its highest since Nov. 5, with Telkom Indonesia up 2.8 percent and Indosat 2.05 percent higher. ($1=.7103 Euro) (Editing by Alan Raybould)
   RFMARKETS-SOUTHEASTASIA-STOCKS/|LANGEN|Table|ABN|E|RBN|SI|IF|PHD|ABX|RNP|DNP|PCO   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | m11 : Equity Markets | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REdevgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | malay : Malaysia | phlns : Philippines | thail : Thailand | usa : United States | vietn : Vietnam | asiaz : Asia | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | indochz : Indo-China | namz : North America | seasiaz : Southeast Asia   IPCSTX | INVS | FIN | BSVC | FINS | .SO   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020081217e4ch000ot  



 HDGermany says has no advice for ECB after Fed move   WC114 words   PD17 December 2008   ET14:06   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited   
   LPBERLIN, Dec 17 (Reuters) - The German government respects the independence of the European Central Bank (ECB) and will not offer it any advice after Tuesday's interest rate cut by the U.S. Federal Reserve, a government spokesman said on Wednesday.

"The German government respects the independence of the European Central Bank and will ... not provide any advice to the ECB," government spokesman Thomas Steg said.
   TD"We're not commenting on the decision by the Fed. And we're not stating any expectations as regards the ECB."

(Reporting by Kerstin Gehmlich)
   RFGERMANY-ECB/|LANGEN|ABN|M|E|RBN|D|RNP|PTD   INibnk : Banking/Credit   NSecbnk : European Central Bank | gjob : Labor Issues | gpol : Domestic Politics | e1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | eec : European Union | gcat : Political/General News | gcom : Society/Community/Work | gpir : Politics/International Relations | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations   REeecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | gfr : Germany | usa : United States | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe   IPCMCE | POL | DBT | JOB | BNK | FIN | EU | ECB | CEN | BACT   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020081217e4ch000wf  



 HDUS RATE FUTURES-Brace for big Fed cut after CPI drop   BYBy Ros Krasny      WC423 words   PD16 December 2008   ET14:41   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited   
   LP(Adds details, analyst comments, byline)

CHICAGO, Dec 16 (Reuters) - U.S. short-term interest rate futures were near steady after news of a record decline in U.S. consumer prices and weak housing starts for November, still pointing to a expectations of a big rate cut when the Federal Reserve ends its policy meeting on Tuesday.
   TDThe data "is decidedly bond-friendly and easily paves the way for a more concerted effort at the Fed to jump-start the economy," said strategists at 4CAST Ltd.

Futures fully price a 50 basis-point cut to the fed funds rate, to 0.5 percent, and show a 64 percent perceived chance the Fed could slash rates by 75 basis points, down from 68 percent late on Monday.

As the benchmark rate approaches zero, dealers expect more "quantitative" measures from the Fed. But many doubt that Tuesday's post-meeting statement will contain any specifics on the path forward.

The U.S. Labor Department said consumer prices tumbled by 1.7 percent in November as energy prices continued to slide.

Gasoline prices were down 29.5 percent on the month, while home heating oil prices fell by 13.6 percent.

The core consumer price index, stripped of food and energy, was steady on the month against forecasts for an increase of 0.1 percent. That took the year-on-year core increase to 2.0 percent, continuing a decline from its cyclical peak of 2.5 percent hit in the year through August.

"The overall core number at 0.02 percent is not quite deflation, but will do nothing to erode pervasive market fears that this is exactly where we are heading," said Alan Ruskin, chief international strategist at RBS Greenwich Capital in Greenwich, Connecticut.

Also on Tuesday, government data showed U.S. November housing starts tumbled by 18.9 percent to a 625,000 unit annual rate, far below the consensus forecast of 740,000.

"This is mind-bogglingly awful," said Ian Shepherdson, chief U.S. economist at High Frequency Economics in Valhalla, New York.

Values in rate futures also reflect cash fed funds values that have consistently traded far below the target rate for several months. The cash fed funds rate last traded at 0.125 percent, versus the target of 1 percent. (Editing by James Dalgleish)
   RFMARKETS-RATEFUTURES-CPI (UPDATE 1)|LANGEN|ABN|C|GRO|MTL|SOF|E|RBN|D|U|M|MNI|RNP|DNP|PCM   NSe1201 : Central Bank Intervention | e1202 : Interest Rates | m15 : Derivative Securities | ntop : Dow Jones/Reuters Top Wire News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCDBT | GVD | INT | MCE | NEWS | MMT | DRV | FED | CEN | STIR   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020081216e4cg0018w  



 HDArgentine stocks extend gains on U.S. rate cut   WC314 words   PD16 December 2008   ET22:36   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited   
   LPBUENOS AIRES, Dec 16 (Reuters) - Argentine stocks extended their gains to close higher for a tenth straight session on Tuesday, buoyed by the U.S. Federal Reserve's decision to cut its overnight interest rates to a record low.

The benchmark MerVal index <.MERV> rose 2.53 percent to close at 1,143.33 points. On the broad market volume was lightat $16.1 million and of active issues 41 advanced, 13 declined and 15 were unchanged.
   TDThe Fed lowered its target for the benchmark federal funds rate to a range of zero to 0.25 percent and said it would use "all available tools" to dispel a year-long recession.

The surprise cut in the federal funds rate pushed it to the lowest level on records dating to July 1954.

"The rate cut was more aggressive than expected and that helped the MerVal rally with Tenaris and Petrobras leading the way," said Claudio Szlaien, an analyst at Marlon Recursos Financieros.

Index heavyweight Tenaris , the world's leading producer of seamless steel tubes for the energy industry, rose 5.59 percent to 37.8 pesos.

Buenos Aires-listed shares of Brazilian oil company Petrobras climbed 1.7 percent to 43.3 pesos per share.

On the foreign exchange market, the peso gained in a market heavily regulated by the central bank and helped by the fall of the U.S. dollar after the Fed interest rate cut, traders said.

In formal trade between banks the peso strengthened 0.66 percent to 3.40/3.4025 per dollar <ARS=RASL>. In trade between foreign exchange houses, as measured by Reuters, the peso closed virtually unchanged at 3.47/3.4725 per dollar <ARSB=>.

(Reporting by Jorge Otaola and Walter Bianchi, Writing by Kevin Gray)
   RFMARKETS-ARGENTINA/|LANGEN|ABN|M|D|E|RBN|RNP   COpetbrs : Petroleo Brasileiro SA   INi1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1300003 : Crude Petroleum Extraction | iextra : Natural Gas/Oil Extraction   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News   REarg : Argentina | usa : United States | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | lamz : Latin America | namz : North America | samz : South America   IPCSTX | FRX | CPX | .BA   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020081216e4cg001wz  



 HDUS 30-year mortgage rate dips after Fed cut-Zillow   WC270 words   PD17 December 2008   ET00:34   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited   
   LPNEW YORK, Dec 16 (Reuters) - U.S. 30-year mortgage rates dipped on Tuesday, according to Zillow Mortgage Marketplace, after the Federal Reserve aggressively cut interest rates and pledged to expand significant planned purchases of mortgage bonds if needed to press rates down further.

The average interest rate on a 30-year fixed mortgage dipped to 5.01 percent on Tuesday from 5.06 percent a day earlier, Zillow said. A week ago, the rate was 5.29 percent.
   TDThe Fed's short-term rate cut to near zero percent sent U.S. Treasury yields, a key peg for mortgage rates, to fresh five-decade lows.

The Fed reiterated its plan to buy up to $500 billion of mortgage-backed securities issued by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and Ginnie Mae, and said it would expand those purchases as conditions warrant.

Increased demand for MBS can reduce yields, enabling lenders who sell mortgages into the bond market to reduce costs to borrowers.

Bankrate Inc, however, said that mortgage rates late on Tuesday held at 5.50 percent, with lenders "waiting for the dust to settle" before budging.

Prices for mortgage bonds surged on Tuesday but that hadn't been passed on to consumers via lower mortgage rates as of late in the day, Bankrate said. The 5.50 percent rate, however, was well below 5.80 percent in the week ended Dec. 10. (Reporting by Lynn Adler; additional reporting by Julie Haviv; Editing by Diane Craft)
   RFUSA-MORTGAGES/RATES|LANGEN|ABN|D|M|E|RBN|U|RNP|DNP   COintllf : Bankrate Inc   INi64 : Retail/Wholesale | i656000301 : Etailing (B2C) | iecom : E-commerce | iint : Internet/Online Services | iretail : Retail   NSe1122 : Mortgage Applications/Refinancing | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | cmabs : Mortgage Backed Securities | emort : Mortgage Rate | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | c17 : Funding/Capital | c172 : Corporate Debt Instruments | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCINT | MCE | DBT | MTG | AGN | BNK | FIN | LOA | CEN | CPX   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020081216e4cg001zv  



 HDUS SWAPS-Spreads contract after Fed drops rates near zero   WC323 words   PD16 December 2008   ET22:44   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited   
   LP* Spreads contract after Fed cuts rates close to zero

* Fed reiterates plan to buy mortgage-related securities
   TD* 2Y spread shrinks to lowest level pre-Lehman bankruptcy

*For the latest market news, please click on <FINEWS>

(Updates market action, adds table, byline)

By Richard Leong

NEW YORK, Dec 16 (Reuters) - The costs to exchange U.S. fixed-rate interest payments for floating-rates tumbled on Tuesday after the Federal Reserve cut its target on key short-term interest rates near zero percent.

Moreover, the U.S. central bank repeated its stand to deploy all methods to resuscitate a flagging economy and stimulate lending. For more, see [ID:nLG10118]

The untraditional tools that Fed will implement include purchases of mortgage-backed and related securities issued and 


guaranteed by mortgage finance agencies -- Fannie Mae and
Freddie Mac -- in a bid to lower mortgage rates and help a


struggling housing market, analysts said.

"Spreads screamed tighter today after the Fed reiterated its decision to purchase large volumes of GSE debt and MBS," UBS analysts wrote in a research note.

The yield spread on U.S. two-year interest rate swaps over Treasuries collapsed to a level not seen since early September, prior to the demise of U.S. investment bank Lehman Brothers.

Two-year swap spread, which shrinks with increased risk appetite, narrowed more than 15 basis points, the biggest one-day tightening in two months.

Two-year swap spread was last quoted at 86.75 basis points compared with 103.75 basis points late on Monday.

Other swap spreads also strengthened in anticipation of stronger demand for non-Treasury bonds.

Ten-year spread shrank to 14.75 basis points from 22.50 basis points late Monday, while 30-year spread ended steady at minus 31.50 basis points.
   RFMARKETS-SWAPS (UPDATE 1)|LANGEN|Table|ABN|M|D|E|RBN|U|MNI|RNP|DNP   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | m15 : Derivative Securities | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCFIN | INT | MCE | DBT | DRV | STIR | MMT | MUNI | CEN | SWP/ | EMBG:DBT | EMBG:SWP/ | embargokeyE2E2   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020081219e4cg001u5  



 HDEMERGING MARKETS WEEK-Volatile trade and  interest rate  cuts seen   BYBy Daniel Bases      WC811 words   PD15 December 2008   ET05:07   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited   
   LP(Corrects paragraph 11 to show Fed decision due on Tuesday, not Wednesday)

NEW YORK, Dec 14 (Reuters) - Emerging markets face a drop in trade activity with a focus on Washington and Detroit to see if the Bush administration bails out the U.S. automakers and if the U.S. uses unconventional monetary easing policies to keep money flowing in the financial system.
   TDIn the last full week of trading for the year before the Christmas and New Year holidays set in, price action across all asset classes is expected to be volatile.

Emerging markets will continue to be driven by risk sentiment from outside the sector. In the spotlight now is the U.S. auto industry.

The survival of the U.S. auto industry, which is a worldwide employer and consumer of raw materials, hangs in the balance.

The U.S. Senate rejected a $14 billion bailout plan for General Motors Corp , Chrysler [CBS.UL] and Ford Motor Co . The White House said last week it would consider tapping the $700 billion Wall Street bailout fund (TARP) to help keep them afloat, but a White House spokesman said a decision was unlikely before President Bush returns from Iraq.

"Look at the week through the prism of liquidity. It is draining and will become more so next week. We need to see some action on the TARP and the automakers, otherwise you'll have risk aversion creep back into the market capping whatever momentum the market may gain off this Christmas window-dressing effect," said Enrique Alvarez, head of Latin America debt strategy at IDEAglobal in New York.

With two weeks left in the year, the likelihood of any rallies has dimmed as the economic outlook for developed economies grows grimmer with each passing economic report.

Emerging markets will provide 100 percent of next year's global growth but diminished activity, lack of available cash and a coming financing crunch in these riskier sectors makes 2009 tough to greet with enthusiasm.

Year-to-date the JP Morgan Emerging Markets Bond Index Plus <11EMJ><.JPMEMBIPLUS>, a benchmark measure of sovereign debt risk, is down 14.978 percent while the MSCI emerging markets stock index is down 55 percent <.MSCIEF>.

"With the liquidity situation already bad in most FX markets in the region, we expect liquidity to more or less dry up next week as investors try to close down positions before the Christmas holidays. This brings with it a risk of increased volatility and 'weird' moves in the EMEA markets next week," Danske Bank wrote its clients.

MONETARY POLICY

Economists expect the U.S. Federal Reserve to cut interest rates again on Tuesday to boost borrowing and investment. Trading is expected to be muted until then.

"We expect the FOMC to reiterate a downbeat view on growth and make a (final) cut in the fed funds target, most likely to 0.5 percent. Any hints at additional unconventional easing tactics will probably be more important than where the funds rate target settles," Goldman Sachs wrote in a research note.

Other central bank meetings next week include Turkey, Czech Republic and Colombia.

Turkey's central bank is widely expected to lower its benchmark borrowing rate by 0.5 percentage point on Dec. 18 to 15.75 percent while lending rate forecasts center on a 1 point cut to 17.75 percent, a Reuters poll showed on Dec. 5.

Columbia's central bank meets on Dec. 19 and is expected to lower rates as well to 9.75 percent from 10 percent.

"The central bank seems ready to cut rates after inflation likely peaked," Barclays Capital wrote.

The Czech Republic's repo rate is expected to come down by 0.5 percentage point to 2.25 percent, a Dec. 12 Reuters poll found.

"Given all the data released over the past week and considering the recent comments from (central bank) board members there might be little hesitation to continue slashing interest rates in bigger chunks," Raiffeisen Bank wrote.

Investors will eye Russia's central bank reserve levels when they are reported on Dec. 18. The levels have dropped roughly $160 billion since August to $437 billion.

"The drop in FX reserves reflects the pressures on the rouble have not yet eased, even though risk premiums have declined somewhat. FX reserves are not below the private sector's gross external liabilities, and a further draining would jeopardize the credit-worthiness of the Russian economy," Danske Bank wrote.

On Saturday the Russian central bank said it will not allow the rouble to float freely for now but will continue widening the band in which the currency is traded against a dollar/euro basket. (For more, click on [ID:nLD176265].) (Editing by Derek Caney)
   RFMARKETS-EMERGING/WEEKAHEAD (CORRECTED)|LANGEN|ABX|BNX|FUN   INi35101 : Passenger Cars | i351 : Motor Vehicles | iaut : Automobiles   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News   REdevgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | usa : United States | namz : North America   IPCCARM | AUT | PVE | AUTO | CYCS | FUND | CPX | EMRG/DBT | EMBG:EMRG/DBT | embargokeyE2E2E2   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020081218e4cf0006b  



 HDGilt yields at record low after U.S rate cut, data   WC539 words   PD17 December 2008   ET12:58   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited   
   LPLONDON, Dec 17 (Reuters) - Gilt futures jumped more than a full point and yields touched record lows on Wednesday after the Federal Reserve cut U.S. interest rates to almost zero and a raft of data highlighted the sickly state of Britain's economy.

In an unprecedented move, the Fed cut its target for overnight interest rates to range of zero to 0.25 percent, the lowest on record.
   TDIt also said it was considering possible purchases of longer-term U.S. Treasury debt and other ways to bring the economy out of recession.

Gloomy UK economic data added to the downward pressure on gilt yields, which have fallen virtually non-stop since the middle of the year.

Two-year gilt yields <GB2YT=RR> were 14 basis points lower at 1.41 percent, having earlier fallen below 1.34 percent for the first time since records began more than 30 years ago. Ten-year gilt yields <GB10YT=RR> were 16 basis points lower at 3.24 percent, having earlier touched a record low below 3.18 percent.

"It's been pretty relentless for the last few days," said Jason Simpson, gilts strategist at RBS.

"The Fed's move overnight caused the latest leg lower. It's such a thin market, it doesn't take much buying to get prices higher."

At 1148 GMT, March gilt futures <FLGH9> were 138 ticks up at 121.43, having earlier touched a contract high above 122.00.

Short sterling interest rate futures rallied as much as 27 ticks as investors speculated the Bank of England would continue its rate-cutting campaign.

Minutes of the BoE's latest meeting showed policymakers voted unanimously for this month's one percentage point rate cut and discussed whether to opt for an even bigger cut. [ID:nLH42258].

Data releases were also gilt-market supportive. The number of Britons out of work and claiming benefit rose for a tenth consecutive month in November and by the largest amount since March 1991. And a survey from the Confederation of British Industry showed retail sales slid in December at their fastest annual rate since its records began in 1983.

* Mar gilt <FLGH8> 121.43 (+1.38)

* Mar short sterling <FSSH8> 98.135 (+0.26)

* 10-year yield 3.24 percent (-16 bps) 


--------------------- KEY MARKET DATA---------------------------
Long Gilt futures  <0#FLG:>  Gilt benchmark chain <0#GBBMK=>
Short Stg futures  <0#FSS:>  Cash market quotes   <GB/GILT1>
Deposit rates      <DM=>     Sterling cross rates <GBPX1=>
UK debt speedguide <GB/DEBT> Econ. indicator polls<ECI/GB>
--------------------KEY MARKET REPORTS--------------------------
Gilts              [GB/]     Sterling             [GBP/]
Euro Debt          [GVD/EUR] Dollar               [USD/]
U.S. Treasuries    [US/]     Debt reports         [DBT]
-------------------- GILT STRIPS DATA --------------------------
Gilt strips data  <GB/STRIPS1>   All gilt strips <0#GBSTRIP=>
Gilt strips IO    <0#GBSTRIPIO=> Gilt strips PO  <0#GBSTRIPPO=>
A list of all the strippable British gilts       <0#GBSTRIPTSY=>
--------------------- FOR MORE NEWS ----------------------------
Top British news   [TOP/UK]      World news       [GLANCE/G]
UK diary           [GB/DIARY]    Press reviews    [PRESS]
New from Reuters   [INFO]


Useful Speedguides <REUTERS> <PHONE/HELP> <USER/HELP>

(Editing by Ron Askew)
   RFMARKETS-BRITAIN-GILTS|LANGEN|Table|ABN|D|E|RBN|M|UKI|RNP|DNP|PTD|PMF   NSe214 : Sub-national/Local Borrowing | m15 : Derivative Securities | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | e1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e21 : Government Finance | e212 : Government Borrowing | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REeurz : Europe | uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | eecz : European Union Countries | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe   IPCDBT | DRV | GVD | GB/ | EMBG:DBT | EMBG:GB/ | embargokeyE2   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020081220e4ch0008f  



 HDUS SWAPS-2Y spread tightens more after historic Fed move   WC133 words   PD17 December 2008   ET14:15   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited   
   LPNEW YORK, Dec 17 (Reuters) - The yield spread on U.S. two-year interest rate swaps over Treasuries narrowed on Wednesday, a day after the Federal Reserve lowered its target on key short-term interest rates to almost zero.

The two-year swap spread, which contracts with improved risk appetite, slipped below 80 basis points for the first time since late May. The early move in two-year swaps followed its biggest one-day narrowing in two months.
   TDThe two-year swap spread was last quoted at 79 basis points, compared with 86.75 basis points late on Tuesday. (Reporting by Richard Leong; Editing by Theodore d'Afflisio)
   RFMARKETS-SWAPS (URGENT)|LANGEN|Table|ABN|D|M|MNI|E|U|DNP   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | m15 : Derivative Securities | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCFIN | INT | MCE | DBT | DRV | STIR | MMT | MUNI | CEN | SWP/ | EMBG:DBT | EMBG:SWP/ | embargokeyE2   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020081220e4ch000a2  



 HDANALYSIS-Low rate seen fresh blow for US money funds   BYBy Richard Leong      WC587 words   PD17 December 2008   ET22:51   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited   
   LPNEW YORK, Dec 17 (Reuters) - The Federal Reserve hopes a near-zero interest rate will be a life preserver for the U.S. economy -- but it could end up sinking the $3.7 trillion money market mutual fund industry.

The Fed's unprecedented move on Tuesday, with the goal of bringing the country out of recession, is another blow for money market funds, which are struggling to ensure some modicum of returns with Treasury bills earning almost nothing.
   TDIn recent days, almost 7 percent of all money funds have been earning nothing, an exceptionally high level, according to fund tracker Lipper.

If this continues, some fund operators will be forced either to merge or to close, analysts said.

In the meantime, some managers have sought to shore up their funds' yields by slashing their fees or not accepting new investors, they said.

"It's very hard for these money market investors to be profitable businesses in this environment," said Alex Roever, short-term fixed income strategist at J.P. Morgan Securities in New York.

Money market funds, which had been seen as only a tad riskier than bank saving accounts, are poised for one of their worst years in the past three decades, according to Lipper.

While money market funds are arguably the hardest hit by the Fed's move to drop short-term rates near zero, short-dated bond funds could be the next major class of investments to suffer under these rock-bottom interest rates, Roever said.

"They will work hard to manage their yields," he said.

UNDER PRESSURE

In this unprecedented rate climate, the money fund managers have been the under the gun to perform.

"Money market rates are crashing to these low levels. ... The pressure is enormous," said Tom Girard, co-portfolio manager with MainStay Income Manager Fund in New York.

Despite their minuscule returns, jittery investors have been pouring billions into money market funds as a safe haven from the wild swings in stocks.

Money market assets fell about $16 billion in the latest week from a record high of $3.71 trillion in the prior week, according to the Money Fund Report. For details, see [ID:nN27607429].

"The interest in them has not waned," said Jeff Tjornehoj, a senior research analyst at Lipper in Denver. "But eventually people will no longer consider them as a worthy investment, and they will look into alternatives such as savings accounts and certificates of deposit."

Some money funds have been closed to new investors in a bid to preserve their yields, Girard said.

Many funds have also been dropping their fees to ensure daily yields for investors, analysts said.

Despite the tough climate, nearly all funds are safe from "breaking the buck" -- when their shares fall below $1 -- for now, they said.

Back in September, Reserve Primary Fund, which had been one of the oldest U.S. money funds, broke the buck -- the second time that has ever happened to a money fund -- amid losses on issues by now-defunct Lehman Brothers. That news triggered a flood of withdrawals from money funds, causing further disruption of credit markets.

Virtually all funds are part of a U.S. Treasury Department program that guarantees their share price. This program, which was initially due to expire on Thursday, was recently extended to April 30. (Reporting by Richard Leong; Editing by Jonathan Oatis)
   RFFUNDS-MONEY (ANALYSIS)|LANGEN|ABN|D|E|U|RBN|M   NSe1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCFIN | BNK | FUND | MMT | DBT | INT | MCE | CEN | EMBG:DBT | embargokeyE1E1   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020081220e4ch000ho  



 HDASSET-BACKED-ABX shoots higher on latest Fed ease   BYBy Nancy Leinfuss      WC522 words   PD17 December 2008   ET23:39   SNReuters News   SCLBA   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008 Reuters Limited   
   LPNEW YORK, Dec 17 (Reuters) - A subprime derivatives index shot higher for a second day in a row on Wednesday after an aggressive cut in key interest rates by the U.S. Federal Reserve to battle a year-long recession.

The ABX 07-1 subprime mortgage index jumped nearly three points to 36.20 on Wednesday, from 33.56 in the prior session, while the "PENAAA" sub-index also posted strong gains to end at 40.70, compared with 37.94 at Tuesday's close. The latest gains followed a one-point climb in Monday's session.
   TDMarkets have continued to rally after the Fed, in a surprise and historic move, on Tuesday lowered its target federal funds rate to zero to 0.25 percent -- a record low -- from 1.0 percent, and said it was willing to keep rates low for an extended period.

"The Fed is taking aggressive steps and laying down the gauntlet and saying, 'We'll do whatever it takes to get things back to where they need to be.' It was their most direct proclamation to date," said James Grady, portfolio manager at Deutsche Asset Management in New York.

In addition, the Fed said it was prepared to expand a plan to purchase large amounts of debt issued or guaranteed by government-sponsored enterprises. It also said it would begin implementing its term ABS loan facility (TALF) to ease credit to households and small businesses.

The Fed's latest action will likely spur tightening in spreads in the ABS market going forward as investors seek higher-yielding asset classes as Treasury yields decline.

"By making yields so low, people aren't getting any returns over Treasuries. So to generate higher returns, investors will have to look at other riskier assets to buy and that will bring spreads in," said Grady.

Ultimately, that will help to normalize spreads and the ongoing liquidity issues in the marketplace, the portfolio manager said.

"That will stop people from hoarding cash and get them to invest in the ABS market," said Grady. "This will have minimal impact right now. It will be a slow and steady grind into the new year," he said.

But others said the Fed's latest interest rate cut and purchase of debt may only be a temporary solution to ongoing problems in the marketplace.

"I don't think anything that the authorities do, in terms of rates and buying assets, are going to help until the Fed recognizes the fact that they're in a new paradigm," said Glenn Schultz, analyst at Wachovia Securities.

Schultz said the market remains in the grips of a downside speculative bubble created by no money down short-selling.

"They can pump all the money they want into the system but until they recognize that there is such a thing as a downside speculative bubble and address it, and then pop it, we are going to continue to have trouble," said Schultz. (Editing by Gary Crosse)
   RFMARKETS-ASSETBACKEDS|LANGEN|Table|ABN|E|RBN|U|D|M|MNI   INibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe1122 : Mortgage Applications/Refinancing | e1202 : Interest Rates | m15 : Derivative Securities | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCMTG | DBT | FIN | ABS | STIR | MCE | DRV | REAM | FUND | INS | BNK | ABS/ | EMBG:DBT | embargokeyE1   PUBReuters Limited   ANDocument LBA0000020081220e4ch000ic  


 HDWorld markets up ahead of Fed rate decision   BYBy PAN PYLAS      CRAP Business Writer   WC801 words   PD16 December 2008   ET18:25   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPLONDON (AP) - European and U.S. stock markets rose Tuesday ahead of the U.S. Federal Reserve's interest rate decision, which could see borrowing costs in the world's largest economy fall to their lowest level ever.

On Wall Street, the Dow Jones industrial average spiked 128.55 points, or 1.5 percent, to 8,693.08, while the broader Standard & Poor's 500 index was up 17.54 points, or 2.0 percent, at 886.11.
   TDThe FTSE 100 index of leading British shares closed up 31.52 points, or 0.7 percent, at 4,309.08, while Germany's DAX was 75.09 points, or 1.6 percent, higher at 4,729.91. The CAC-40 in France rose 66.00 points, or 2.1 percent, at 3,251.66.

Most attention was focused on the U.S. central bank, which is widely anticipated to slash its key rate at least a half percentage point to 0.5 percent. Some even think it will cut by three quarters of a percent to an all-time low of 0.25 percent after economic data stoked fears that the U.S. economy will be in a deflationary spiral in just a few months.

What the Fed says in its statement after the rate decision on the health of the economy -- already in recession -- and what measures beyond monetary policy it might take to boost growth will likely have more bearing on markets than the actual rate decision, analysts say.

With the Fed's key rate dropping ever closer to zero, the central bank is moving into uncharted territory.

"The Fed has plenty of ammunition available to bring down term borrowing costs and restore the normal operation of credit markets," said Brian Bethane, chief U.S. financial economist at IHS Global Insight.

One expectation in the markets is that the Fed will be explicit about its policy of "quantitative easing" -- boosting the quantity of money in the economy -- to provide economic relief.

The hope is that quantitative easing will help prevent the U.S. economy from falling into a deflationary spiral. Figures published Tuesday raised the prospect that the U.S. will be suffering falling prices on an annual basis before too long, which would be bad news -- as in Japan a decade ago -- because it would discourage spending as individuals wait for prices to continue falling.

The Commerce Department reported that U.S. consumer prices fell by a record 1.7 percent in November from the previous month, largely because of a steep fall in gasoline prices. The annual rate dropped to only 1.1 percent in November from 3.8 percent the previous month.

In other economic news, the Commerce Department reported that construction of new homes fell in November by 18.9 percent, the biggest drop in a quarter-century.

"The record declines in U.S. inflation and housing data will prompt the Fed to cut one final time this afternoon before engaging in a campaign in 'quantitative easing' in the new year," said Michael Woolfolk, an analyst at Bank of New York Mellon.

Earlier, Japan's Nikkei 225 stock average closed down 96.64 points, or 1.1 percent, to 8,568.02, but Hong Kong's Hang Seng index was 83.26 points, or 0.6 percent, higher at 15,130.21.

In Shanghai, stocks opened in the red but bounced back modestly after the head of China's central bank said more rate cuts could be in the offing. Shanghai's key index rose 0.5 percent to 1,975.01, and South Korea's Kospi edged up 0.3 percent to 1,161.56.

Beijing, worried over China's cooling economy, has been rushing out a series of stimulus measures, including massive spending plans and looser fiscal policies. On Tuesday, Chinese central bank Gov. Zhou Xiaochuan suggested the government would continue along that path.

Australia's benchmark index declined about 1 percent but Thailand's key SET index rose 1.9 percent to 445.31. Investors welcomed the selection of Abhisit Vejjajiva as the country's new prime minister as bringing a measure of calm after six months of instability caused by anti-government demonstrations that included the takeover of Bangkok's two main airports.

In currencies, the dollar fell 0.6 percent to 90.05 yen while the euro rose 0.5 percent to $1.3765 amid expectations of lower U.S. borrowing costs, which will reduce the returns investors getting from holding dollar-related assets.

Oil prices fell 30 cents to $44.21 a barrel in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange.

------

AP Business Writer Jeremiah Marquez in Hong Kong contributed to this report.
   RF7   NSm11 : Equity Markets | e1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REuk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe   IPCtagpf1wcat | sel----- | catf   IPDFinancial/Business | World Markets | D953UB280   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020081216e4cg001me  



 HDBrazil stocks fall Tuesday on concerns about US economy, despite rate cut   WC121 words   PD17 December 2008   ET15:09   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPSAO PAULO, Brazil (AP) - Brazilian stocks are falling on concerns about the state of the U.S. economy despite the reduction of a key interest rate to a historic low.

Brazil's Ibovespa index was down 0.4 percent to 39,818 shortly after trading began Wednesday. The country's currency, the real, fell against the dollar.
   TDThe losses for shares of big Brazilian companies come despite a surprisingly deep cut in the U.S. benchmark rate. Most analysts expected a 0.5 percentage point cut rather than 0.75.

Investors concluded that the U.S. Federal Reserve's action drives home the depth of the American recession.
   RF7   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | m11 : Equity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REbraz : Brazil | usa : United States | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | lamz : Latin America | namz : North America | samz : South America   IPCtagpf1finonl | sel----- | catf | 1310   IPDFinancial/Business | LT Latam Markets | D954GI980   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020081217e4ch001nk  



 HDObama says traditional tools to deal with recession running low   WC110 words   PD16 December 2008   ET18:01   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPCHICAGO (AP) - President-elect Barack Obama says the Federal Reserve is "running out of the traditional ammunition" to deal with a recession.

He spoke hours before the Fed is expected to lower a key interest rate from its current level of one percent.
   TDObama said rates are getting about as low as they can get. He says tools are still available, but it's critical for other branches of government to "step up."

He says an economic recovery plan is still "absolutely critical."

Obama says his economic team is meeting today, working on what he calls a "bold agenda."
   RF5   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagpf0apon | sel----- | catf | 1310   IPDFinancial/Business | Obama 1200 | D953TVNG0   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020081216e4cg0059g  



 HDShares of grocers rise slightly after federal rate cut announced   WC231 words   PD16 December 2008   ET20:51   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPPORTLAND, Ore. (AP) - Shares of grocers rose slightly Tuesday after the Federal Reserve cut a key interest rate to the lowest level on record and pledged to use "all available tools" to combat a severe financial crisis.

The central bank lowered the fed funds rate to between zero and 0.25 percent from the 1 percent target rate in effect since the last meeting in October.
   TDThe cut to the fed funds rate, which is the interest that banks charge each other on lending, is intended to ultimately boost economic growth by pushing down borrowing costs for consumers and businesses.

Grocers have, in most cases, been a bright spot in business during the recession as consumers cooked at home more. But the industry also has struggled with consumers limiting what they do buy, with some higher-end stores such as Whole Foods suffering.

Shares of many grocers were neutral to up slightly in trading prior to the announcement, as was much of the broader market.

Following the announcement, shares of Whole Foods Market Inc. rose 15 cents to $10.56. Shares of Great Atlantic & Pacific Tea Company Inc. rose 14 cents to $4.92. Shares of Supervalu Inc. rose 28 cents to $12.62 and shares of Safeway Inc. rose 25 cents to $23.38 by afternoon trading Tuesday.
   RF7   COwhofoo : Whole Foods Market Inc   INi41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i64 : Retail/Wholesale | i641 : Food Retailing | i654 : Specialty Stores | ifood : Food Products | iretail : Retail   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusor : Oregon | namz : North America | usa : United States | usw : Western U.S.   IPCtagpf1finonl | sel----- | catf | 1333   IPDFinancial/Business | Grocery Sector Snap | D9540FC00   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020081216e4cg005me  



 HDShares of engineering and construction firms rise after Fed cuts key rate   WC181 words   PD16 December 2008   ET21:18   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPHARTFORD, Conn. (AP) - Shares of several engineering and construction firms jumped Tuesday after the Federal Reserve cut a key interest rate to a record low.

The central bank reduced the federal funds rate, the interest that banks charge each other, to between zero to 0.25 percent. That is down from the 1 percent target rate that has been in effect since the last meeting in October. Many analysts had expected the Fed to make a smaller cut to 0.5 percent.
   TDThe Fed's aggressive move was greeted enthusiastically by Wall Street. The Dow Jones industrial average rose more than 230 points in afternoon trading following the announcement.

In the engineering and construction sector, Jacobs Engineering Group Inc. rose $3.33, or 7.4 percent, to $48.59. Shaw Group Inc. increased $1.22, or 6.6 percent, to $19.60, and Fluor Corp. rose $3.09, or 6.4 percent, to $51.17. URS Corp. shares increased $3.21, or 8.5 percent, to $40.89.
   RF7   COflurcp : Fluor Corporation | jacint : Jacobs Engineering Group Inc | shawgp : The Shaw Group Inc | urs : URS Corporation   INi501 : Building Construction | i502 : Heavy Construction | i837 : Technical Services | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | iconst : Construction | icre : Construction/Real Estate   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REusct : Connecticut | namz : North America | usa : United States | use : Northeast U.S.   IPCtagpf1finonl | sel----- | catf | 1333   IPDFinancial/Business | Engineering and Construction Sector Snap | D9540S6G0   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020081216e4cg005of  



 HDDollar sinks as Fed slashes key interest rates to record lows, pledges support for economy   BYBy ERIN CONROY      CRAP Business Writer   WC466 words   PD16 December 2008   ET23:23   SNAssociated Press Newswires   SCAPRS   LAEnglish   CY(c) 2008.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.   
   LPNEW YORK (AP) - The dollar sank against major currencies Tuesday after the Federal Reserve cut its target for a key interest rate to an all-time low in a bid to stem the country's economic slide.

The central bank said it reduced the federal funds rate to a range of zero to 0.25 percent. That is down from the 1 percent target rate in effect since the last meeting in October. Many analysts had expected the Fed to make a smaller cut to 0.5 percent.
   TDThe 15-nation euro jumped to $1.3976 in late New York trading, peaking at $1.4148, its highest point since Oct. 1, from $1.3665 late Monday in New York. The British pound climbed to $1.5469 from $1.5253.

Meanwhile, the dollar fell to 89.35 Japanese yen from 90.60 yen late Monday in New York, circling 13-year lows. On Friday, the buck bottomed at 88.16 yen, its lowest point since August 1995.

The Fed has never pushed its target for the federal funds rate as low as zero to 0.25 percent. The lowest target rate before had been 1 percent, a level seen only once before in the past half-century.

The Fed also made clear that it intends to keep the funds rate at extremely low levels. Given how low interest rates are, the central bank said it planned to use a variety of unconventional methods to flood the banking system with credit and drive interest rates lower.

Cutting interest can theoretically undermine a currency as investors transfer funds to where they can earn better returns.

"If you look at how the markets have traded in the past few weeks, the dollar has been sold off very steeply in anticipation of some Fed action," said David Solin of Foreign Exchange Analytics in Essex, Conn. "I think there is some chance the dollar will at least attempt to stabilize, just considering the size of the moves over the last few weeks."

The rate decision came on a day when investors received two more pieces of evidence on Tuesday that the economy was worsening: The Commerce Department reported a 18.9 percent drop in new home construction in November, while the Labor Department said consumer prices sank by 1.7 percent.

Meanwhile, Wall Street remained nervous about the growing list of firms and individual investors affected by investment manager Bernard Madoff, who is accused of scamming investors out of billions of dollars.

In other New York trading, the dollar fell to 1.2127 Canadian dollars from 1.2389 late Friday, and dropped to 1.1275 Swiss francs from 1.1602.
   RF7   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | ecat : Economic News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter   REusa : United States | namz : North America   IPCtagdsf | sel9---- | catf   IPDAP Financial News | Financial/Business | Dollar | D9542MMO0   PUBPress Association, Inc.   ANDocument APRS000020081216e4cg005yx  

 Page 1 of 1     © 2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.


 

 Page 1     © 2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.

