 


 HD Fed Cuts Short-Term Rates by 0.25 Point --- First Cut Since January '96 Is a Pre-Emptive Strike To Stave Off Recession    BY By Jacob M. Schlesinger and David Wessel    CRStaff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal   WC1,360 words   PD30 September 1998   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGA3   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 1998, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)
   LP WASHINGTON -- The Federal Reserve cut interest rates for the first time since January 1996 in a pre-emptive strike against recession that reflects a sudden reversal in the central bank's outlook for the economy and new worries about a credit crunch. 

 The Fed trimmed its key short-term interest rate by 1/4 percentage point to 5.25%, saying it sought to "cushion the effects on prospective growth in the United States of increasing weakness in foreign economies" and offset what it termed "less accommodative financial conditions domestically." 
   TD The Dow Jones Industrial Average dropped immediately following the Fed's announcement at about 2:15 p.m., and closed at 8080.52, down 28.32. But bond prices jumped; the benchmark 30-year Treasury bond rose 23/32, or $7.1875 for a bond with $1,000 face value. 

 The widely anticipated rate cut, already reflected in mortgage rates and other market-set rates, won't have much immediate effect on consumer-loan rates. But if commercial banks follow the Fed and cut their prime lending rates, that will mean lower interest charges on some credit-card loans and many home-equity loans. 

 Among some traders and other Fed watchers there was disappointment that the Fed didn't, as some expected, cut rates by 1/2 percentage point. The U.S. Chamber of Commerce, for instance, described the move as "underwhelming in its modesty." But a few months ago, a rate cut looked very unlikely. 

 Just last June, Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan declared the state of the U.S. economy to be "as impressive as any I have witnessed in my near half-century of daily observation of the American economy." With the unemployment rate at a low 4.5%, Mr. Greenspan's colleagues at the Fed were far more worried about an outbreak of inflation than about recession. The last time the Fed cut rates with unemployment this low was 30 years ago, and inflation took off soon thereafter. 

 What darkened Mr. Greenspan's crystal ball? Early signs of financial stress in the U.S., triggered largely by Russia's Aug. 17 default on its foreign debt and the resulting fear in financial markets of risky -- and even not-so-risky-loans and investments of all sorts. 

 Fed officials worry that the seeds of a potentially strangling credit crunch have been planted in an otherwise healthy American economy. Though there's scant evidence of a slowdown in growth, yesterday's move, perhaps the first of a series, was an attempt to kill the weed before it takes root. 

 As Mr. Greenspan put it last week, global financial turmoil has produced "a general pulling back for risk-taking," which is showing itself in lower stock prices, higher yields on bonds of riskier companies and hints that banks -- an important source of finance to companies too small for public offerings -- are growing more reluctant to lend. 

 In preparation for yesterday's meeting, the Fed conducted a special survey of senior bank lending officers; it hadn't planned such a survey until November. Results aren't yet public, but the survey apparently found some hints that bankers, too, were beginning to pull back. "Banks are also reportedly becoming more cautious and more-expensive lenders to companies," Mr. Greenspan said last week. 

 "Banks are examining their exposures more carefully," and aren't as "free-wheeling" as they were," says David Bozynski, treasurer of Federal-Mogul Corp. When the Southfield, Mich., auto-parts maker borrowed more than $1 billion earlier this month, it had to pay 2.25 percentage points above the benchmark widely used by banks. Earlier this year, Federal-Mogul was able to borrow at 2 points above the benchmark. 

 "I'm hearing from my members that financial institutions are beginning to tighten their lending standards," says Barry Rogstad, president of the American Business Conference, a group of midsized, fast-growing companies. 

 Fed fears that another rude shock to the financial system would produce even more reluctance to lend among bankers and bond buyers contributed to its decision last week to broker the $3.5-billion rescue of Long-Term Capital Management LP, the spectacularly leveraged hedge fund. 

 Because growth has slowed so much outside of the U.S., hurting U.S. exports, and because of signs of credit tightening here at home, Wall Street analysts are marking down their forecasts for economic growth next year, and Fed staff economists have done the same. 

 Morgan Guaranty Trust Co. projects that the U.S. economy, which grew at an eye-popping 3.6% adjusted for inflation over the past year, will grow only about 1% over the next 12 months. Goldman Sachs & Co. figures that stock and bond markets now put the odds of a recession in the next 12 months at a substantial 40%. 

 There are only few fresh indications that the economy may soon slow, and some analysts think that the Fed is making a mistake. After all, only a few months back, Mr. Greenspan was fretting about bankers being too lax. 

 "If the Fed eases now," says Roseanne Cahn, an economist with Credit Suisse First Boston Corp., "there's a risk that they will foster the next financial bubble, which is likely to be followed by a bigger crash later." 

 But such concerns were outweighed by the tightening of credit conditions, which could make it difficult for businesses to finance the investment boom that has sustained the economy for years. 

 Most obvious is that the stock market's appetite for initial public offerings of shares has almost dried up, the latest casualty being Goldman Sachs & Co.'s celebrated planned offering. 

 The end to the initial-public-offering boom "is forcing us to slow our expansion, and to cut expenses more," says Gene McGreven, chairman of PetNet Pharmaceutical Services LLC, a two-year-old, Norcross, Ga., maker of cancer diagnostics. "We would normally be making plans now to do an IPO six to nine months from now, but that would be a waste of time and effort," he says. 

 Bond-market borrowing also has been hurt in the past six weeks. In the last half of 1997 and the first half of 1998, riskier companies sold an average of $589 million in high-yield bonds per day; since the beginning of August, they've been selling only about $162 million per day, he says, according to Moody's Investors Services. And even though yields on Treasury bonds are down, the rate that the bond market demands from junk-bond issuers has jumped to 10.5%, the highest level since early 1995. 

 Bond issuance by blue-chip companies has also fallen, to $213 million per day from $714 million per day in the year ended July 31. And the spread -- the difference between the rates that the U.S. Treasury pays to borrow money and the rates that companies pay -- has widened, too, a measure that Mr. Greenspan and others at the Fed track closely as a gauge of credit conditions in the economy. 

 Ford Motor Co., which has a solid A rating, last week had to pay 1.45 percentage points above Treasurys to borrow $1.5 billion for 30 years. That's about a third more than the premium Ford probably would have paid earlier this year, says Moody's chief economist, John Lonski. "There appears to be an unusual and unwarranted risk aversion among lenders," he says. "That's what happens with a credit crunch: tight standards are applied quite often without regard to the underlying creditworthiness of the borrower." 

 Shortly after the Fed announcement, the Bank of Canada cut its short-term rates by 1/4 percentage point to 5.75%, prompting major Canadian banks to trim their prime lending rates by the same amount. The Canadian central bank raised the rate to 6% at the end of August in an effort to stabilize the sinking Canadian dollar. 
   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument j000000020010917du9u00q77  



 SE Economy    HD Whys, Wherefores of a Possible Rate Cut --- Easing of Monetary Policy Would Mark a Reversal In Fed's Basic Outlook    BY By Jacob M. Schlesinger    CRStaff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal   WC1,169 words   PD28 September 1998   SNThe Wall Street Journal   SCJ   PGA2   LAEnglish   CY(Copyright (c) 1998, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)
   LP WASHINGTON -- Ever since Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan broadly hinted last week at an interest-rate cut, markets have treated a reduction as a near certainty when the Fed's policy makers meet here tomorrow. 

 An easing of monetary policy would mark a swift and amazing turnaround in the central bank's fundamental economic outlook. For well over a year, the Fed's greatest concern has been inflation, not recession. As recently as July, Mr. Greenspan and his colleagues agreed their next move was most likely a rate increase. 
   TD Why would the Fed ease? 

 The new dynamic since the summer has been continued deterioration in Asia's economies, and the disease's spread to Russia and Latin America, which takes more than 15% of U.S. exports. 

 There has been, so far, minimal concrete evidence of a slowdown in the U.S., mainly a slump in manufacturing and a drop in corporate profits. But some early warning signs of deeper damage may be flashing, such as hints of eroding business and consumer confidence, especially as the stock market slumps. There are also fears of a looming credit contraction in the U.S. -- signaled by rising rates on junk bonds in recent weeks, and warnings by some banks of plans to curb lending. "Issuance of equity, and of bonds by lower-rated corporations, has come virtually to a halt," Mr. Greenspan said in congressional testimony last week. "Even investment-grade companies have cut back substantially on their borrowing in capital markets," he added. 

 While growth through the rest of 1998 is likely to remain solid, the outlook for 1999 has become less certain. 

 Would a rate cut be related to the near-collapse of the Long-Term Capital Management LP hedge fund? 

 There would seem to be at least an indirect link. When the New York Fed brokered the deal to bail out the fund last week, spokesman Peter Bakstansky said officials moved because "there was a potential for disruption in the marketplace." Market weakness and volatility of recent weeks could put more financial firms under stress, and could jeopardize markets' workings. 

 Just as Mr. Greenspan promised, after the 1987 stock crash, to provide the economy with sufficient liquidity, a rate cut could take some pressure off the market's weakest links. 

 How big would a rate cut be? 

 Usually, the Fed moves in increments of a quarter percentage point, which would put the federal-funds rate, the rate banks charge one another, at 5.25%. That would bring rates to early 1997 levels, before the Fed boosted rates a quarter-point on inflation fears. 

 But many market participants are betting on a bigger cut, perhaps a half-percentage point, anticipating Mr. Greenspan will want to make a significant statement about his concern for the world's economic frailties. On Friday, investors in bond market futures contracts were treating a half-point cut by year's end as a certainty, and a half-point cut tomorrow as a reasonable possibility. 

 What impact would a rate cut have? 

 There would be some direct stimulus to the U.S. economy. "When interest rates go down, mortgages are cheaper, capital for investment to business people is cheaper, the purchase of durables by consumers on credit is cheaper," Treasury Secretary Robert Rubin explained Friday on NBCTV's "Today" show. "And all of that . . . increases economic activity." 

 Struggling Asian and Latin economies could also benefit from greater American consumption of imports. A cut in U.S. interest rates would also increase somewhat the availability of credit world-wide, easing the global credit crunch. It could also stabilize the destructive turmoil in foreign-exchange markets-investment capital flows to nations that offer high returns, so currencies of other countries tend to fall against the dollar when U.S. rates rise, and rise against the dollar when U.S. rates fall. 

 Beyond any direct economic effect, the hope is for a huge psychological boost to investors, and that markets around the world would either rise or stabilize. The mere hint by Mr. Greenspan of a rate cut can send the Dow Jones Industrial Average soaring hundreds of points. Latin American bonds rallied late last week in anticipation of a Fed move. 

 Market stability could also reduce the possibility of other Long-Term Capital type crises. "It could turn questionable loans into good loans, and prevent other questionable loans from becoming bad loans," says Princeton University economist Alan Blinder, a former Fed vice chairman. 

 But psychological boosts only work so long, short of fundamental changes in economic trouble spots. Japan must fix its banking system; Brazil's economy is still weak. "A Fed rate cut gives Brazil two to four weeks, but it doesn't solve their problems," says Paulo Leme, director of emerging markets for Goldman, Sachs & Co. 

 Is there any downside to a rate cut? 

 The Fed risks reinflating the stock market bubble Mr. Greenspan so famously worried about in his December 1996 "irrational exuberance" speech. 

 Meanwhile, the conditions that led most Fed officials two months ago to consider raising rates remain in place. Unemployment remains at 4.5%, near a quarter-century low, while wages continue to accelerate. Housing, one of the most interest-rate sensitive sectors, already is considered overheated and would get an unneeded stimulus from a rate cut. If fears of a slowdown turn out to be exaggerated, inflationary pressures would be fueled. 

 But inflation remains so low-consumer prices have risen at just a 1.6% annual rate -- and the Asian crisis is pushing down import and commodity prices so much, that the risk of some extra inflation seems less worrisome than it did a few months ago. "There's a risk of some incremental inflation from a Fed easing, but it could be taken back," says Chris Varvares, an economist at Macroeconomic Advisers LLC in St. Louis. "You have to weigh that against reducing the chances of a global meltdown." 

 What's the risk of not easing? 

 Mr. Greenspan is a student of history, and he has studied with care the mistakes the Fed made before and during the Great Depression. No Fed official wants to be blamed for dithering while the world economy slid into recession -- or worse. Japan already has cut short-term rates to 1/4 %. Germany has made clear it isn't about to cut its rates. So the onus appears to be on the world's most powerful central bank, the Federal Reserve. 

 Besides, a rate cut tomorrow is so widely expected, that a failure to do so would likely jolt fragile markets, at least for the day. "The market would fall on its backside," says Dennis Hynes, managing director at R.W. Presspritch, a New York brokerage firm. "If the Fed doesn't cut rates, the market goes down 300 points." 
   INi814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit   NSe12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News   REnamz : North America | usa : United States   PUBDow Jones & Company   ANDocument j000000020010917du9s00ptr  
 Page 1 of 1     © 2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.


 

 Page 1     © 2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.

